Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of personal privilege which arises out of a newspaper report appearing in today's issue of the Montreal Gazette where I am quoted as having said this:
He said the government should stop considering Quebec "as the illegitimate child of confederation."
I never used those words. On the contrary, I believe that this government is considering the province of Quebec as one of its most glorious sons. Knowing well the concern that this paper has for accuracy and the consideration it always has for the government and its supporters, I thought it would be well to bring this matter to their attention.


1.	Since January 1, 1952, has the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation moved employees from other points in Canada to Ottawa?
2.	If so, how many and at what total cost?
3.	Are any offices or divisions formerly established in Montreal and Toronto, now established in Ottawa?
4.	If so, what offices or divisions and what was the purpose of moving same to Ottawa?


1.	Since January 1, 1952, 50 employees have been moved to Ottawa at a cost of removal expenses amounting to $37,459.96.
In addition to routine transfers to head office and to stations CBO-CBOT, certain senior officials and employees in the national offices of the program, engineering, personnel and administration, press and information, and station relations and broadcast regulations divisions previously located in Montreal and Toronto have been moved to Ottawa to provide closer co-ordination in the general management of the corporation.
2,	3, and 4. See answer to No. 1.


1.	How many square feet of floor space does the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation or any division or subsidiary thereof occupy in Ottawa?
2.	Where is this space located?
3.	What is the total monthly or yearly rent for this space?


1.	46,744.
2.	Head office:	Victoria building, Holt-
Renfrew building, Bryson-Graham building, 17 O'Connor street.
Station CBO studios and offices: Chateau Laurier hotel.
3.	$108,197.50 yearly rental rate.


1.	In order to obtain his certificate of naturalization on March 1, 1945, did Sam Carr swear an oath or subscribe to a declaration of allegiance or make any other form of affirmation of loyalty to His Majesty and to Canada?
2.	Has his grant of naturalization ever been revoked on grounds that it was obtained by false representations or on any other grounds?
3.	Who was minister of the department in charge of naturalization at the time this certificate was granted?


1.	Yes.
2.	No.
3.	The late Hon. Norman McLarty.


1.	Has the federal government signed an agreement with the government of Nova Scotia for the completion of a forest inventory in Nova Scotia?
2.	If so, (a) to what extent does the federal government participate in the cost of same; (b) how much has been paid by the federal government to date, and when is it anticipated the inventory will be completed?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Under the terms of a federal-provincial forestry agreement dated June 12, 1952, the federal government has undertaken to pay, for the duration of the agreement, one-half of the cost to the province of preparing and maintaining, in accordance with

Inquiries of the Ministry certain specifications, an inventory of the forest resources of Nova Scotia. The present agreement terminates on March 31, 1956, but is subject to renewal thereafter on terms and conditions then to be determined.
(b) Payment to date is $25,248.46; it is expected that the inventory will be completed in the fiscal year 1956-57.


On the orders of the day:
Will the Minister of Transport give the house a report on the dominion-provincial conference on highway transport which has just been completed?


The federal-provincial conference on highway transportation convened in Ottawa on Monday of this week and completed its business this morning. I think it is safe to say that the conference was a successful one.
In view of the position of the federal government that it was reluctant to enter the field of extra-provincial highway transportation, it suggested to the provinces that they control and regulate such extra-provincial undertakings in the same manner as that in which they were controlling intra-provincial movements. The provinces seemed to be willing to accept this suggestion. Thereafter there was drafted a bill which was submitted to the conference for its approval. Dependent upon the reaction of the various provincial governments to this draft bill, the federal government will be willing to give consideration to enacting at this session of parliament legislation which would make the proposed bill valid.


As a supplementary question may I ask whether it will be necessary to amend the British North America Act in order to implement the agreement?


If the suggestion contained in the draft bill meets with the approval or the favourable reaction of the provinces, the answer to the question is no.


On the orders of the day:
May I be permitted to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare?
[Mr. Lesage.l
It arises out of a press dispatch in this morning's Globe and Mail captioned "Ottawa Said Ready to Match All Grants for Civil Defence". Is the minister in a position to tell the house what procedure is necessary on the part of the provinces and the municipalities in order to qualify for these grants?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend was kind enough to give me notice of his intention to ask this question. I have not had an opportunity of reading in detail the press dispatch to which he makes reference but I am advised generally that it deals with the proposed new financial arrangements in connection with the operation of civil defence in Canada.
This matter was discussed at the dominion-provincial conference held in Ottawa a few weeks ago, when the whole matter of civil defence, and financial arrangements in connection therewith, were discussed with all the provinces and when there was, as a result, general agreement on what was disclosed there and on the new financial formula. I will discuss the formula in the house on the occasion of the presentation of the departmental estimates, and I hope the proposal will stimulate action in those places where action is not now adequately taking place.


Will this require a constitutional amendment?


On the orders of the day:
May
I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce? When may we expect the report on the regrettable accident at Moose Jaw? Has the inquiry been completed yet?


Perhaps I might answer this question. The report is not, I think, complete. By that I mean it has been completed on the ground but in so far as the preparation of it is concerned it is not yet completed. I expect to have it some day this week. When I do my first responsibility will be to discuss it with my colleagues before I can impart its implications to the house.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National

Health and Welfare. Has the minister anything to say with respect to the substance alleged to have damaged automobile windshields and in some cases, particularly at Wellandport, Ontario, to have caused minor injuries to persons?


Beyond what has already been reported I have nothing to say.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport and ask him whether the government-owned Canadian Overseas Telecommunication Corporation is considering an upward adjustment in its rates at the present time?


I am grateful to the hon. member for having sent me notice of his question. I am not aware of any consideration being given at this time by Canadian Overseas Telecommunication Corporation to a revision upward of its rates, but I should say that the matter of rate revisions, either upward or downward, is always a matter under consideration by any corporation. Subject to that, I think I should tell my hon. friend that there is at this time no intention of an upward revision.


Would the minister examine the report directed to him by the directors of the corporation which gives some indication of this fact?


Yes, I will be glad to.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday, in my absence, the hon. member for Saskatoon asked the following question:
In view of the discussions held in Ottawa from April 12 to 14 with representatives of the United Kingdom government on the subject of possible modifications to the Canada-United Kingdom air transport agreement, is the government now in a position to indicate what changes, if any, will be made in this agreement?
The answer is no. There have been amicable discussions with the United Kingdom authorities on the subject of the Canada-United Kingdom air agreement, and there are
28, 1954	4197
The Budget-Mr. Blackmore no changes to be announced at this time. If there are any to be announced at a later date they will be announced in the house.


On the orders of the day:
In my absence yesterday an hon. member asked the following question:
Would the minister care to comment on a recent press release regarding a Russian offer to buy 3 million bushels of Canadian barley?
I may say that the Russian government has asked this government to arrange for trade quotations on 50,000 tons of barley. Quotations have been submitted but no purchase has been made as yet.


The house resumed, from Tuesday, April 27, consideration of the motion of Hon. Douglas Abbott (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means.
Mr. Speaker, last evening I closed my introductory remarks with the following words, speaking of the opponents of Social Crediters in the 1930's, as found at page 4192 of Hansard:
The favourite phrase that was applied to us then was that we believed in "funny money''. It is my purpose tonight, during the time which remains at my disposal, to give some consideration to this matter of funny money and in doing so to go back into the financial history of Canada to the passage of the Dominion Notes Act in 1868, then to follow on down to the passage of the Finance Act of 1923 and on down to the passage of the Bank of Canada Act of 1934, and to show members of the house and the people of the country that practically every single dollar this nation operated on from 1868 down to 1934 was, or was backed by, funny money, exactly the kind of money that the Social Credit proposal envisaged.
In tracing this development as regards Canada's money I propose to follow the account of Canadian financial history as it is given in the report of the royal commission of 1933 on banking and currency in Canada, beginning at page 21, paragraph 44.
Before commencing this review may I say that "funny" money, as our opponents and critics apparently use the term, must refer to money which is created by the minister of finance, for the fundamental characteristic of the Social Credit proposal in respect of money is that money can safely and soundly
4198	HOUSE OF
The Budget-Mr. Blackmore be created by the government or the minister of finance. No one ever seems to doubt that coin money can be created through the Canadian mint. No one ever seems to call that funny because it is created by the government, but when it comes to paper money, then government-created money immediately becomes "funny", which, I must say, is extremely funny to me.
In examining the question of a government or a minister of finance creating money, may I point out that we are told in paragraph 44 of the report of the royal commission on banking and currency in Canada that the Dominion Notes Act of 1868 empowered the minister of finance-note that, the minister of finance-to issue, that is, to print, to create, $8 million in bills, $5 million of which would have 20 cents' worth of gold behind each of the dollars and $3 million of which would have 25 cents' worth of gold behind each of the dollars. Obviously that money was created by the minister of finance. Consequently it must have been "funny" according to our critics, but I think probably most men will find some difficulty in establishing the funniness of that money.
The chartered banks were required to keep in such dominion notes one-third of whatever cash reserve was required on their part, which meant that money that came out of the banks must have been funny too. Then again, to a large extent the notes remained in circulation, which indicated that our fathers in those days apparently did not worry very much about the notes being funny as long as they could get them.
In paragraph 46 of this report we find that by 1913 the minister of finance was empowered to issue, that is, print, create, $30 million provided he had 25 cents' worth of gold in reserve behind each of those dollars, that is, $7,500,000 behind the whole $30 million. If he desired to print further money, which he could, he had to have a dollar of gold of course behind each one dollar bill.
In paragraph 47 we learn that in August, 1914, parliament legislated that the minister might create-print-and issue $50 million against partial gold backing. After that, $16 million were issued by the minister of finance and the notes were backed by deposits of railway securities guaranteed by the dominion government. We notice here a definite move in the direction of what might be called a modern, realistic conception of the backing of money, that is, with securities.
Then, $10 million were issued and those notes were not backed either with securities or with metal. Now, that might appear to have been really funny, but it was not looked


upon as such in those days by the realistic minister of finance, Sir Thomas White. In 1917, as recorded in the same paragraph, $50 million were printed and used to buy $50 million worth of Canadian goods which were sent across to Great Britain. This $50 million was backed by British treasury bills. Apparently no one thought those notes were funny. They did the job. They paid the Canadian farmers and other producers and they supplied the goods to Britain without immediately having goods in return.
May I suggest to Canadians, both within this house and without, that it is well to give careful attention to this fact. This is an incident in Canadian financial history illustrating a principle, the application of which might mean we could solve our problem in connection with exporting goods to foreign markets where purchasers are unable to obtain Canadian dollars. May I suggest very humbly that if the members of this house go back to their constituencies and tell the people that nothing can be done about exporting our goods when these facts stand before them in the royal commission's report on finance, then they are betraying a trust. The same is true of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott) if he comes before us and tells us that nothing can be done in respect of the same kind of exporting.
On August 3, 1914, there was passed an order in council authorizing the minister of finance to issue advances of dominion notes to chartered banks against securities submitted by them to the Minister of Finance and approved by him. This again is in paragraph 48 of the report. It indicates the recognition of the fact that Canadian dollars could be issued, partly against securities, and they would be good money, not funny. They could be taken into a bank and issued by that bank in payment of its responsibilities, still without being "funny".
In August, 1914, parliament passed the Finance Act of 1914, confirming the issues of notes already made under the order in council of August 3, 1914, and providing for authorization by proclamation of similar advances in case of war, invasion, riot, insurrection, real or apprehended, or in case of any real or apprehended financial crisis. Now, that comes right down to our own times, I imagine. If we are not now faced with a financial crisis then a good many of us are misinterpreting the signs.
In paragraph 49 of the report we are told that the proclamation in pursuance of the Finance Act of 1914 was made on September 3, 1914, and thenceforth throughout world war I and the early post-war period extensive

use of the act was made; that is to say, of the principle of having the minister of finance against the backing of approved securities print and issue the money which was necessary to carry on the activities in which the nation was at that time engaged.
In paragraph 50 we learn that an act passed in 1919 provided for the continuance in force of the proclamation of September 3, 1914 until two years after the conclusion of peace on termination of the war. This would seem to indicate that the act had been found effective and satisfactory during the war.
Paragraph 51 tells us about the power to issue dominion notes against approved securities being made a permanent part of the Canadian financial system. It would appear that the men who sat in this house from 1919 to 1923 were Social Crediters in their thinking. They did not consider the social credit monetary concepts funny. Paragraph 51 contains words which I think it fitting we should include in Hansard. Here are the words:
But extensive use continued to be made of the power to issue dominion notes to the banks against approved securities with the result that it was decided in 1923 to make this part of the Finance Act mechanism a feature of the normal Canadian financial system. In introducing the new legislation, Mr. Fielding, the Minister of Finance, made the following brief explanation of its purpose:
"The act (the Finance Act) was adopted as a war measure and no doubt was exceedingly useful in the financial operations during the war. It may be said that the war being over we no longer have any need for the act, but experience has shown-
Note these words.
-that the act is still required; indeed, I am inclined to think that something of the kind will have to become almost a permanent part of our financial system.
In my opinion that statement is of great significance, as I think it must be to every person who gives it careful attention. Here was a measure adopted by a Conservative government and administered with great success by a Conservative finance minister, one of the very greatest the dominion has produced. It was re-enacted by a Liberal government upon recommendation of a man recognized as being one of the greatest of the Liberal finance ministers.
I should like to read two brief excerpts from this report, one from paragraph 48 in order to go back and sum up the whole picture.
Another extremely important change in the Canadian monetary structure was effected by the passing of the Finance Act in the 1914 war session of parliament.
I read that just to emphasize the fact once more that the Finance Act of 1914 was a new departure, the beginning of a new and remarkable era in Canadian finance.
The Budget-Mr. Blackmore
May I read now paragraph 55 of the commission report, in which the commission described the whole process as follows:
From this brief survey it can be seen that while the Dominion Notes Act has developed mainly along its original lines, the position of the dominion note issue has been substantially changed by the introduction of the Finance Act.
It is important to bear in mind that this royal commission, from whose report I have been reading, was composed partly of men from Great Britain. The Right Hon. Lord Macmillan, P.C., K.C., of the City of London, England, was chairman of that commission. Sir Charles Stewart Addis, K.C.M.G., of the City of London, England, was apparently his assistant. Then, there were on the commission three eminent Canadians in the persons of the Right Hon. Sir William Thomas White, P.C., K.C.M.G., of the city of Toronto, in the province of Ontario; secondly, the Hon. John Edward Brownlee, K.C., M.L.A., of the city of Edmonton, in the province of Alberta, and Beaudry Leman, Esquire, B.Sc., C.E., of the city of Montreal, in the province of Quebec.
Apparently the object of those who selected the commission was to have a report adverse to the finance acts of 1914 and 1923. The object was to destroy in Canada these very successful finance acts of 1914 and 1923 and, as it were, to put Canada in bondage by establishing a Bank of Canada, or a central bank, that could grow into an instrument powerful enough seriously to control the activities of any minister of finance and his government.
We shall find that as the commissioners prepared their report that report was slanted slightly against what Canada had done under the finance acts of 1914 and 1923.
When they issued their report they recommended, as everyone suspected they would, the establishment of a Bank of Canada which, of course, could involve the discontinuance of the finance acts of 1914 and 1923.
Now, two eminent Canadians on that commission, Sir Thomas White and Beaudry Leman, recommended solemnly against the recommendation of the commission. Sir Thomas White wrote a memorandum of dissent which appears at page 85 of the report dated October 3, 1933. I believe it is only fitting that I should read certain extracts from that memorandum, so that those who have been unable to have access to the report may be in a position to know what Sir Thomas White thought about the whole proposal of establishing the Bank of Canada.
I quote first from page 85 as follows:
But there was on the part of the government no "policy of inflation." Credit inflation automatically and inevitably occurred owing to the need of financing the government's own war expenditures in Canada and of providing the British government

The Budget-Mr. Blackmore
with the necessary funds to pay for the vast amount of foodstuffs, munitions and other products purchased in Canada and required by Britain and her allies in the prosecution of the war. In respect of these advances to the British government aggregating more than twelve hundred million dollars it is to be observed that conversely that government made advances in sterling in London to the Canadian government to meet the expenditures of the latter in maintaining the Canadian forces abroad. On balance at the end of the war the British government owed the Canadian government two hundred and twenty million dollars which was duly paid.
That passage clearly indicates how the finance minister created money in Canada so as to enable Great Britain to buy goods in Canada during world war I. And that is the very thing we need to be able to do now, on a larger scale.
Then, on the same page I find this:
In these conditions and having regard to the suspension of the gold standard in all the great nations of the world except the United States, the Finance Act instead of being an instrument promoting a policy of credit inflation served with the highest efficiency the purpose of providing in conjunction with the note issues of the banks adequate currency facilities for the financing of the rapidly mounting volume of Canadian agricultural, industrial and commercial production and trade. It is my belief that no central bank in the world during the war period functioned more smoothly or was capable of being utilized more promptly or with greater immediate effect in serving the purposes of national and business finance than the Canadian Finance Act of 1914. It is also my view that during the period in question and in the very trying period of so-called reconstruction following the armistice no other monetary system proved more efficient or better adapted to national needs than that of the chartered banks of Canada supplemented as it was by the provisions of the Finance Act of 1914. The advantage of that system to the government of Canada, in making its issues of bonds to the Canadian public and of having immediately available through the agency of the Canadian Bankers' Association the facilities afforded by the chartered banks with their thousands of branches throughout the dominion needs only to be mentioned to be realized and appreciated. And in my opinion the same high degree of efficiency has been maintained by the Canadian financial system down to the present time. Of this statement we have at least partial proof in the stability of that system during the unprecedented world depression of the past four years.
And then at page 87:
Although it may be technically correct that "the Finance Act did not provide Canada with the organization needed to undertake the tasks which the maintenance of the restored gold standard implied," the fact is that in conjunction with the policy followed by the banks the Canadian monetary system worked quite as efficiently as the central bank systems of nations economically similar to Canada.
And this further quotation:
It was suggested during the course of our hearings that political influence might possibly affect unfavourably the administration of the Finance Act because the treasury board which authorizes advances and fixes rates of interest payable thereon is composed of members of the government. With


regard to this I have only to say that if by "political influence" is meant partisan or improper influence not a shred of evidence has been adduced before the commission in support of such a suggestion. The fact is that authorization of advances under the act is an almost purely routine matter of administration carried out by the treasury board, aided by the recommendation of the Minister of Finance and the advice of his chief officials. I have no hesitation in asserting that the administration of the Finance Acts under all governments has been wholly free from any such influence.
And again at page 88 he uses these words:
Should it be the opinion of the Minister of Finance that he requires additional expert assistance to that available in his department he might appoint as a permanent member of his staff an outstanding economist whose special duty it would be to continuously study the economic and banking situation in Canada. Such an official together with the deputy minister of finance (himself a distinguished economist) and the inspector general of banks would constitute a most competent departmental committee to advise the minister and the treasury board upon all applications for advances by the banks. Personally, if any change is made in the existing mode of procedure, I would prefer such a permanent departmental advisory committee to an independent board created for the purpose of control and regulation of credit through the administration of the act. It may be of interest to the public to know that since the enactment of the Finance Act in 1914 the dominion government has received a total revenue, by way of interest charged the banks upon advances, of $22,782,602, with practically no additional cost to the Department of Finance.
And, again, here is a quotation of importance:
Upon this most important question which involves consideration of structural change in Canada's monetary system I regret to find myself in disagreement with a majority of the members of the commission. With my colleague, Mr. Leman, I dissent from their recommendation that "a central bank for Canada be forthwith established." The terms of our dissent are to be found in paragraph 238 of the report and are as follows:-
"238. Sir Thomas White and Mr. Beaudry Leman dissent from the arguments and conclusions contained in this chapter as to the need of the establishment of a central bank at the present time and under existing conditions and also as to certain features of the suggested constitution of such a bank should it at any time be established in Canada."
One further important quotation is as follows:
Even if I believed however (which I do not) that a central bank could now perform useful functions as a part of our monetary system, I would still entertain the view that the present is net a suitable time for its establishment. My reason for this conviction is that, without regard to the financial disturbance which would undoubtedly be caused by such a fundamental alteration in the structure^ of our monetary system, an institution of this kind would hamper rather than help the government of the day in dealing with the manifold and complex financial problems with which it is confronted.
And this final quotation:
A central bank, newly established, entrusted immediately with the ownership of the entire cash reserves of Canadian banks, and administered by a

necessarily untried and independent board of directors, clothed with the power of controlling currency, credit and security issues and charged with the conduct of negotiations respecting our external public finance, could, I think, be only an impediment to the government in this trying period, when direct unfettered governmental action is manifestly required.
A little further on he uses these words:
In the solution of all these problems, it is my belief that the existing banking system of Canada supplemented by the provisions of the Finance Act, affords the government a much more efficient instrument than that system controlled and regulated by a newly-created central bank, independent, in theory at least, even of the government of the day.
I think probably men throughout this country, and particularly the men who are responsible for moulding the opinions and guiding the destiny of this nation in the trying times ahead, would be well advised to stop using the term "funny money" entirely until they begin to know something about what constitutes "funny" money and nonfunny money. I maintain that the quotations which I have read and the information which I have given, drawn from this report of the royal commission on banking and currency in Canada, 1933, constitute an absolute, unanswerable argument in support of the whole Social Credit position.
There is just one matter that needs to be given thought before we leave. People will ask: How can we determine how much money can safely be issued and brought into circulation without causing inflation? That is certainly an all-important question. The answer is this:	The amount of money which needs
to be in circulation at any time must depend directly on the total amount of goods within the country to be purchased and to be exchanged; consequently the amount of money in active circulation at any given time must be gauged in accordance with the amount of goods and particularly the amount of surplus goods and productive capacity not being moved into consumption or not being used. Bearing this in mind, and remembering that surely it must be possible to find men skilful enough to be able to make the calculations necessary in order to harmonize the amount of money in circulation with the amount of money work to be done-exchanges to be effected-bearing this in mind, certainly it must appear that the Social Credit proposals are well worthy of most careful and respectful attention by all hon. members and by this country.


Before the hon. member for Joliette-L'Assomption-Montcalm (Mr. Breton) proceeds with his speech, may I tell the hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Blackmore) that today again I found that he had been quoting too much at great length. I did not wish to
The Budget-Mr. Breton interrupt him while he was making his speech, because during this debate great latitude is allowed; but I do not want him to consider that because I have been lenient today, on other occasions I shall allow him to quote at such great length while he is speaking.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, with your permission, I shall endeavour, during a few moments, to shed a ray of light over the discussion in vogue nowadays, that is, the question of direct taxation and federal-provincial fiscal agreements, by analysing certain aspects of the problem.
A few days ago a serious and independent newspaper wrote:
We remember that it was following a temporary agreement with Quebec that Ottawa took over income tax. Now, on the strength of an authorization granted for a time, the federal government claims that the province has no longer any right in that field.
We have here, Mr. Speaker, exactly the kind of information which misleads opinion, instead of enlightening it. And such confusion is spreading more and more in the minds of a great many people, so much so that one is inclined to believe that speech was given to man to bewilder the mind.
I quote the Hon. Maurice Duplessis, premier of the province of Quebec, who says that the provinces have exclusive right in the field of direct taxation, while claiming at the same time that the constitution must not be changed by one iota. The spirit and the letter of the constitution must be preserved, he asserts. The late premier of Nova Scotia, Mr. Macdonald, said that the act of confederation should be redrafted. The Ligue d'Action nationale de la province de Quebec stated before the Tremblay commission that our confederation should be rebuilt to prevent it from being a lie, that it must recognize the prior right of the provinces. Others say that subsidies are contrary to the spirit of confederation.
The Hon. Antoine Rivard relies on the fact that education is reserved to the provinces to state that the provinces have a prior right in the field of direct taxation. The Montreal chamber of commerce, which is not a political body or at least should not be, says that the matter of prior rights has no importance. In fact, they say it would be better for the federal government to authorize the deduction because the agreements would bring greater advantages. What confusion!
It is the same thing with the Conservative party, but confusion is still greater there, if that is possible. It passed a resolution at its convention, but completely disregards it in the house. And so we wonder whether the

The Budget-Mr. Breton party is preparing one kind of political campaign for Quebec and adopting a different stand in the other provinces.
Mr. Speaker, I shall try to make my modest contribution and to throw a little light on this, even though I may have to repeat what others have said before me, because many people do not know the truth about this problem.
I fail to see why some people make statements as if they were the Gospel truth without even trying to find out what the truth is. Calmly and objectively, in order to do justice to the province of Quebec as well as to Canada as a whole, I shall try to deal with some interesting points in order to show why the federal government has to maintain the stand taken on this matter.
Why did the federal government propose fiscal agreements to the provinces?
Well, it is simply because the federal government and the provincial governments have legally a right of joint ownership in the field of direct taxation. That is a formal right; it is clear and to the point.
A great man has questioned that statement. At the federal-provincial conference of 1945, the premier of the province of Quebec, the Hon. Maurice Duplessis, stated, and I quote the following words which appear at pages 355 and 356 of the report of the reestablishment conference of 1945-46:
Among the matters exclusively reserved to the provinces, section 92 of the British North America Act mentions "direct taxation within the province." On the other hand, section 91 of the said act also vests in the federal parliament the right of raising money "by any mode or system of taxation". These two enactments are not contradictory; they mean that the provinces, in which according to the letter of the law has been vested the exclusive right of direct taxation, should have a priority right in such a field.
This problem turns on the word "exclusive" which appears in section 92 of our constitution. Unfortunately, the Hon. Maurice Duplessis has forgotten something. The respect which I owe him forces me to say that he must have committed an extremely serious oversight, one which has unfortunately cost the province of Quebec $164 million since 1948, when he could have recouped $53 million without even signing an agreement, by accepting the 5 per cent offered to the taxpayers.
And yet, if he had read the preceding section, section 91 of the constitution, he would have seen that the word "exclusively" is to be found in both sections 91 and 92, and I quote section 91 which he forgot to quote in his statement before the conference on re-establishment:
It shall be lawful for the Queen, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of

Commons, to make laws for the peace, order and good government of Canada, in relation to all matters not coming within the classes of subjects by this act assigned exclusively to the legislatures of the provinces; and for greater certainty, but not so as to restrict the generality of the foregoing terms in this section, it is hereby declared that (notwithstanding anything in this act) the exclusive legislative authority of the parliament of Canada extends to all matters coming within the classes of subjects next hereinafter enumerated; that is to say,-
3. The raising of money by any mode or system of taxation.
And so, when we read the two sections, we find that the word "exclusively" appears in both. They seem to contradict themselves and to be in mutual opposition. But on studying the text carefully one realizes that under section 91 the federal government has the exclusive right to raise money by all kinds of means for federal purposes, namely for purposes specified in the section.
In section 92, the word "exclusive" means that the provinces have the right to raise money in a direct way only, and for provincial purposes only. So there is no opposition and you have to admit that the text is clear and precise. Besides, that is how the other premiers of Canada, even the then premier of Ontario who is now the Leader of the Opposition in this chamber, understood it at the conference. The provincial prime ministers have realized that the federal government was entitled to levy taxes in every way.
To prove my case let me quote some of their statements. The premier of Manitoba said, on page 140 of the report:
To the dominion were given the expensive national responsibilities and to assist them unlimited powers to support any kind of tax, direct or indirect.
The Hon. Mr. Macdonald, the premier of Nova Scotia, said, on page 531 of the same report:
At confederation, as it has been said many times around this board, as we all know, the right to direct taxation was given to the provinces, and the dominion was given the right to levy and collect money either by direct or indirect taxation.
And the hon. premier of Ontario (Mr. Drew):
The provinces were empowered to levy taxes in the field of direct taxation . . . whereas the dominion government was authorized to raise money by any form of direct taxation.
Now, here is what the Hon. Mr. McNair, premier of New Brunswick, is reported to have said, on page 27:
The dominion has adequate power to meet the needs of our provinces as well as others. With its control of monetary policy, and the broad and unlimited powers of taxation it possesses, the dominion is in a position, drawing upon the resources and tax-bearing capacity of the whole nation, to see to it that the provinces are placed in a position to maintain their local services at appropriate and uniform Canadian levels.

And the Hon. Mr. McNair added:
Let me say that we in New Brunswick are just as jealous of our constitutional rights and privileges as are the people in any other province. But we want autonomy in substance, as well as in name. We look upon provincial autonomy as a means to an end-not an end in itself. We look upon dominion autonomy in the same way. The end to which they should be devoted, through their proper exercise, is the greatest good for the greatest number of Canadians.
But, Mr. Speaker, is it possible for us to admit, even for a moment, that the premiers of the other provinces could really be a party to the handing over to the federal government of rights which do not rightfully belong to it under the constitution, to their own detriment? Out of nine premiers, eight at that time recognized the federal government's right to levy taxes by any and every means. One premier only refused to recognize that right, and that is the Hon. Maurice Duplessis.
However, Mr. Duplessis does recognize the necessity for an agreement. Here are some of his words to that effect, as found at page 123 of the report:
As the conference was convened by the federal authorities it was only proper for them to place before the delegates their own proposals. With all due respect for the opinion of others X do not think it is up to the provinces just now to make proposals or counter-proposals.
And further, at page 324, he added:
During the time necessary for the study and solution of these Canadian problems, a temporary agreement, precise, clear and categorical, the duration of which would depend on the needs of the federal body and the needs of the provinces, might be entered into, as a temporary measure, but based on the very foundations of the Canadian constitution.
In short, it would be possible to rent, and we insist on the term rent, in return for a fair compensation not only material but even constitutional, certain present taxation powers of the provinces, powers that could reasonably be rented without in any way impeding the march forward, the progress and prosperity of the province.
Is this not a recognition of the need for agreements between the central and the provincial governments? Then he adds, on page 414:
Speaking for the province of Quebec . . .
No, as I do not want to be unkind, I am not going to quote this. I am now reading from page 415 of the report:
It should be possible, and it could be possible, without changing the fundamentals, which cannot be changed and which should be considered as untouchable; it should be possible and it is possible to make temporary arrangements, clear, precise and definite arrangements, taking into consideration the rights and prerogatives of every party to it.
We are willing to collaborate during the necessary time by renting to Ottawa-and I insist on using the word "renting" to Ottawa-certain sources of
The Budget-Mr. Breton revenue which can be discussed and which could be found, because we are in good faith and we have the sincere and deep desire to collaborate.
We must therefore come to the conclusion that all of the governments of the country have recognized the necessity for an agreement. If no such agreement could be reached it would mean the sowing of the seeds of national disunity, with the progressive destruction of the ideals which the fathers of confederation and the following generations have pursued and which we are still striving to attain.
During the negotiations, there were three different opinions out of nine. Mr. Macdonald, premier of Nova Scotia, was of the opinion that subsidies were a bad thing and that the constitutional act should be revised. The premier of Ontario, who had his own common ground of agreement with the premier of Quebec, said that taxation powers should be defined. We are ready, said Mr. Duplessis, to rent temporarily our taxation rights, provided a conference be called on a set date to define taxation rights. I do not want, he said, mere electoral promises because I have been in politics for 25 years and I know what promises are worth. That means that the federal government in exchange for a temporary agreement would have to undertake to relinquish sovereign powers which had been officially recognized by the constitution. Did you notice the bargaining, Mr. Speaker? One can readily see that such a transaction is impossible because, owing to its growing commitments, the Canadian government is unable to abandon its powers of taxation, just as the provinces are unable to abandon the powers granted them by the constitution. Each are independent entities which, within their own spheres, have absolute and sovereign rights. However, as far as taxation rights are concerned, the fathers of confederation have given to the federal government, which is the essential organization for the maintenance of economic and social life as well as the development of our country as a nation, powers which enable it to obtain the necessary funds to meet and fulfil all its commitments.
The fathers of confederation were great men, but when one thinks that in 1867 the provinces gave up freely for a mess of pottage a revenue of $13,600,000 against a fixed subsidy of 80 cents per capita, and when one thinks that they abandoned their rights to sources of revenue likely to increase considerably and which then made up 85 per cent of the national revenue, one must admit that those who drafted the pact of confederation did not intend to give a prior right to the provinces in taxation matters.
4204	HOUSE OF
The Budget-Mr. Breton
About three years later, in 1870, I believe, Nova Scotia complained that the per capita subsidy set at 80 cents per person was not enough to enable it to fulfil its obligations. At that time, direct taxation was an unimportant taxation field, and no government wanted it.
The right hon. Prime Minister of Canada (Mr. St. Laurent) stated that there could be absolutely no question of allowing the federal government's sovereignty to be infringed upon by a renunciation of its powers of taxation. We have had two wars and, following these, the federal government was obliged to assume a public debt of the order of $12 or $13 billion and to pay an interest on that debt of $400 or $500 million annually. And a third world war still remains a possibility. That is why we must all co-operate in working for a better social, economic and political future in this country. The federal government, of whatever party it may be, can have no special sympathy or antipathy for the provinces, there can be no question of discrimination towards different races or religions, not even towards the various political parties which govern the provinces. The federal legislation must be uniform throughout the country.
We Quebec Liberals do not want it to be said that through sentimental weakness towards our province, we have contributed to destroy the Canadian confederation.


You are destroying Quebec.


No, we do not want to destroy Quebec; all the members of this house know it, and I will go further. The Liberal party has always been an autonomist party and remains so, whereas you Conservatives, when you wish to speak of autonomy, must quote Sir Wilfrid Laurier and the Hon. Honore Mercier. The Liberal party has always been the defender of the minorities in this country, and, first of all, that of Quebec. Our whole political history is there to prove it. We are autonomists, because we aspire to freedom and cherish democracy.
The confederation was established, Mr. Speaker, so that two great races might unite and work together for the development of our country. It had to be so, if we wanted to create a nation capable of flourishing and of taking its place on the international scene. That is confederation.
A question which should be studied with extreme care, in an objective manner, has


become an emotional and confused issue, with utter disregard for the Canadian nation.
There is a nationalism which befits the Canadian government. It is that nationalism which calls for the pursuit of an ideal which leads to independence and sovereignty for Canada in national and international affairs. It was the nationalism of the late Henri Bourassa who has largely influenced our march towards that magnificent goal. We wish to continue his work. Mr. Bourassa rendered a great service to this country by expounding ideas which led at the time to great controversies but which have favourably influenced the policy of this country.
This long digression was brought about by the interruption of the hon. member for Three Rivers. I would now like to talk about taxation and subsidies.
In 1885, Mr. HonorS Mercier, then premier of Quebec, invited the other provinces to take part in a conference for the purpose of forcing the federal government to increase the subsidies.
In 1907, Sir Wilfrid Laurier told the House of Commons that Lower Canada and the maritimes would not have become part of confederation if they had been told that they would have to levy direct taxes in order to get revenues.
That shows that political problems are apt to assume widely different aspects: in those days nobody would levy direct taxes; today everybody is clamouring for them.
In 1953, the Montreal chamber of commerce-or the Quebec chamber, I cannot remember exactly-presented a brief to the Hon. Maurice Duplessis. This brief began with these words: "We are happy to appear before a great leader, the defender par excellence of provincial autonomy."
Following which the same organization, appearing before the Prime Minister of Canada, "recognized his great desire for conciliation".
That is a gesture to be noted, and I insist upon it because when confronted with those difficult problems the Canadian government tried to extend a friendly hand to all the governments of Canada in order to foster national unity, without which our provinces, one after the other, may eventually become small republics, having at their head an omnipotent and permanent president. They would have modern capital cities, but their people would be miserable, illiterate and poor. That may be a sad picture, but it could be the outcome of the separatist dream.

I know that the Hon. Mr. Duplessis is not a separatist because he has said too often that he wants to co-operate with the federal government and that the constitution should not be changed. We can count on the fingers of one hand those people who have such nebulous dreams, that can bring about quarrels and disputes such as we are now witnessing in the province of Quebec. Mr. Speaker, I am of the opinion that the immense majority of the people of Quebec and of the whole of Canada are anxious to preserve that structure so patiently and so successfully erected by our forefathers, and 