Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. On Friday at a time when debate was taking place on a motion presented by the Postmaster General (Mr. Cote) certain discussion took place in connection with references to a report which had been made to that department. I raise this question of privilege because of the interpretation which has been placed upon the statement made by the Postmaster General by different newspapers and which might reflect in some way upon the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace (Mr. Hamilton) and the manner in which this information came into his possession.
I might say that the comment made by the minister would appear to fully justify the interpretation placed upon it; but I see, for instance, a report in the Ottawa Journal under the heading "Postmaster Plays Host Unawares". Merely to indicate that that was the general impression, the other newspapers picked it up. I see in the Hamilton Spectator of Saturday, January 16, this heading, "Postmaster Cote Pained, Surprised..."
That refers to a statement made by the Postmaster General on Friday after the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace had made certain references to the contents of a report made to the department by J. D. Woods and Gordon. These are the words of the Postmaster General appearing on page 1175 of Hansard of January 15 and referring to the statements which had been made by the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace:
I think my hon. friend is a little unfair. After all, I opened the door of my office and he spent the whole day there.
Half humorously and half seriously one of the newspaper reports I read created the impression that a new member in his innocence had almost stumbled on information which had not previously been available. Certainly the information was not previously available but there was no question of his 83276-76
stumbling on it. Certainly there was no question of his using information that had not been available in any manner that did not justify its use. I think it would be most unfortunate if public impressions were left or taken from the Hansard record that there was the slightest impropriety or unfairness on the part of the hon. member.
I think that this is of sufficient importance that I should refer exactly to what took place. On Thursday, January 14, the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace, in an earlier discussion of this motion, said, and I quote from page 1119 of Hansard of that day:
I would suggest that if the minister feels so inclined he might be brave enough to let us have access to the Woods, Gordon report to which he has referred. As I understand it, that was a study of certain aspects of the operation of the post office, and I believe it has never been tabled in the house.


It was a managerial report. We only have a few copies, but if my hon. friend will come to my office I will be glad to let him see it.


I think we might get a great deal of interesting information from it and I shall be delighted to see it. Thank you for the offer.
I would point out that the word "we" appears twice. I suggest that it was not to be supposed that the hon. member was referring merely to a period of entertaining reading to divert himself for a while. It was quite clear that he had a definite purpose in mind and it was information in connection with the motion that he sought.
As the result of that offer by the Postmaster General he visited the office of the Postmaster General. He was not able to complete his investigation on his first visit and he sent a note to the Postmaster General, the original of which I have in my possession. It was written by the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace; he asked for an answer and the answer was placed on the original note. It is on House of Commons paper and reads:


I would like to work on the Woods Gordon report again this afternoon. Would you be again good enough to have it made available for my use in your office in the Langevin building this afternoon, starting immediately.
Thanks a lot.
Bill Hamilton
P.S. Would you please confirm this is O.K. to me.


Privilege-Mr. Drew
It was returned with the word "Yes" written on it and the initials of the Postmaster General. Pursuant to that, the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace (Mr. Hamilton) visited the offices of the Postmaster General (Mr. Cote) with a stenographer and in the presence of the secretary of the Postmaster General proceeded to dictate further notations from that report, all of which was known to the secretary of the Postmaster General and to the office staff. It was from these dictated memoranda, taken from this report with its various recommendations, that the hon. member made his statement, and I would point out, Mr. Speaker, that this is more than just perhaps taking exception to an implication of unfairness. I suggest it goes a great deal further. Far from the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace having stumbled on something, this new member has demonstrated his very great efficiency as a member of parliament and has obtained information that should have been here all along.
I suggest, Mr. Speaker, that there is only one way to end any suggestion of unfairness and that is for the Postmaster General to table the report. I regret being called upon to bring this up in his absence this afternoon but I believed it was necessary that I should do so, because I did not feel it was appropriate that this impression be conveyed any further through the press, quite properly as far as the press is concerned, in the light of the words that have been used. But to the assistant to the Postmaster General or the minister who may be acting for him I would direct the request that they should table the report which covers the administration of the many things that should be done to save money, and that this be tabled so that, before we have second reading of this measure, we may know something of what the situation really is in the Post Office Department and be able to find out exactly what has been done to meet the recommendations which have been made for substantial savings in the Post Office Department, before we are called upon to approve of this increase in the postage rates of this country.
Mr. Speaker, I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Drew) has correctly described what took place. Here was a confidential report made to the minister in respect to the administration of his department. A member expressed some interest in it and the Postmaster General allowed him to see it. I think that most of us who have been here for some time do find it rather surprising that a confidential document having been made available to the hon. member in that way was then used, or

extracts from it cited textually in this house, without there being any indication to the minister that there was any intention to make such use of that confidential document.
As to the suggestion of the Leader of the Opposition that the document be tabled, that would be contrary to the general practice. It has always been the practice of governments to get all the information and advice they find it appropriate to secure for the better administration of the departments for which they have responsibility, and it has never been the practice to table those documents. They are not prepared for the purpose of being a subject for discussion in the house. The minister is responsible for the administration of his department and he is entitled to get expert advice as to how the administration can be improved. But it is not the report that can be the subject of debate in the house, it is the way in which the department is administered; and I do not think there is anything unfair in the suggestion of the Postmaster General that he was surprised that a confidential document, having been communicated in that way, should have been made the object of textual citation in a debate in this house.


Mr. Speaker, since the discussions on a matter of this kind become part of the record of the house, I think I should point out that this is not a confidential document in the sense of a document that is under restriction on the ground of security or something of that kind.


Oh, no.


And I would point out that I am unable to see any difference between this document and the Currie report, which was voluntarily tabled by the Department of National Defence last year. I recognize it has been contrary to the practice of this government to table these reports unless they are forced to do so in some way, but I think that practice should be changed and that report should be tabled and tabled forthwith.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to make a comment on this because-


Order. In the first place, If I may be allowed to say so, this question should have been raised by the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace. That should have been his question, but the Leader of the Opposition chose to raise it himself and I saw that the house was interested in his remarks and therefore allowed him to proceed. I figured that it did not make so much difference at this point since it was raised by the leader of the party to which the

hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace belongs. But, in correcting an impression left by a newspaper, one should not-it being a so-called question of privilege-do more than is necessary to make the correction. But the Leader of the Opposition suggested the report be tabled and in the very last moment of the debate we were not talking about the matter in which the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace was involved. The matter which was being debated was whether or not the report should be tabled. I think that is a question which could be raised at a later stage. I do not think we should interrupt our proceedings any longer for the purpose of discussing whether the report referred to should be tabled.


Mr. Speaker-


Just one moment. Mr. Speaker, I just want to make this observation, not to debate in any way the point you have made, but since this will become part of the permanent record of the house I would point out that what I am referring to is a question of procedure which affects all members, and my own submission is that it was an appropriate course for me or any other member to rise on the question of principle in regard to the propriety of using information obtained in the way the information was obtained on this occasion.


That is a point on which the Leader of the Opposition and I disagree at this time. Does the hon. member for Kamloops (Mr. Fulton) wish to speak?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I wish to refer to a question of privilege which I suggest is important since it affects the possible course of action of members in dealing with information of this type. It is in that connection that I think the position should be clarified, if not now, certainly at some future time, because my own connection with this matter is that the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace came to me on the same day he went to the Postmaster General's office, and we discussed together the question whether or not it was proper for the hon. member to use in the house extracts which he might obtain from that report.
It is that aspect of the matter which I think is of importance to every hon. member. In the course of our discussion it was my suggestion that I certainly would follow this course myself unless some ruling or authority was laid before us which indicated that it was not proper. I suggested to him that unless the Postmaster General laid down some conditions under which he would permit the hon. member to see the report, or 83276-76 J
Privilege-Mr. Zaplitny unless the report itself were marked confidential, I felt that any hon. member who says in the house "I want to see a report", and is given access to that report, is entitled to repeat in the house what he finds in that report.
In view of what the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) has said about some surprise being felt that a report made available under these conditions should be quoted from, I think this is a matter that hon. members are entitled to have threshed out. My own view is, as I have said, that unless there is a condition clearly laid down as to the terms on which the report will be made available, or unless the report itself is marked confidential, then an hon. member should be free to quote from it once he has seen it.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. The Winnipeg Free Press of January 15 issue carried a news item attributed to the Canadian Press.
The item refers to the government's proposal with regard to the indemnities of the members of this house and the salaries of the cabinet ministers and the leader of the official opposition. In referring to the indemnities of members of parliament, this news item states that the members, in addition to the indemnity of $4,000 and the expense allowance of $2,000, also receive an automobile allowance of $2,000 annually. This statement, of course, is obviously incorrect. Only members of the cabinet and the Leader of the Opposition receive the automobile allowance.
I raise this question in order that the public may have the correct facts in view of the lively interest in this question now being displayed in newspapers across Canada.


1.	Has the government, in previous years, made any grant or grants to the Canadian Arthritis and Rheumatism Society?
2.	If not, is the government considering the advisability of making any such grant, or grants this year?


1.	Yes. In 1948-49 a grant of $60,238 was made under the national health grants program to the Canadian Arthritis and Rheumatism Society to assist it in getting organized.

Questions
The provincial branches of the society also received grants funds, as follows: 1948-49, $19,029; 1949-50, $14,126; 1950-51, $54,807; 1951-52, $47,644; 1952-53, $49,983; 1953-54, $135,926, (estimated).	.
2.	See answer to No. 1 above.


How many men enlisted in each of the years 1951, 1932 and 1953. into the (a) Royal Canadian Navy; (b) active forces Canadian army; (c) the Royal Canadian Air Force, had prior service with sea cadets, army cadets services and air cadets?


Figures for 1951 are not available. The following number of men enlisted in the Royal Canadian Navy, Canadian Army active force and the Royal Canadian Air Force with service in the sea cadets, army cadet services and air cadets:
	1952	19531
R.C.N	
391	184Army 	
734	421R.C.A.F	
715	5321,840	1,137
^Figures for 1953 are for the period January 1 to September 30.


1.	What effect, if any, has the federal tuberculosis control grant had on the lowering of the tuberculosis death rate in Canada?
2.	What factors, if any, may have contributed to this decline?


1.	The moneys made available by the federal government under the tuberculosis control grant have made it possible for the provinces to expand more rapidly their existing services and to establish new services of various kinds where these are deemed desirable.
The death rate from tuberculosis has dropped from 37-3 per 100,000 population in 1948 to 17-1 per 100,000 population in 1952.
2.	(a) Early diagnosis through increased mass X-ray surveys, widespread hospital admission chest X-ray examinations, and increased use of B.C.G. vaccine.
(b) More and better treatment facilities such as provision of extra hospital beds, the free distribution of streptomycin and other

related drugs supplied to sanatoria, and the increased use of newer surgical methods of treatment.
All these factors have been assisted by the use of moneys made available to the provinces under the national health grants program.


1.	Has the report of the inquest into the death at Fetawawa of the late Private Frederick Joseph Burke, been studied by officials of the Department of National Defence?
2.	If so, by whom?
3.	Have any reports of such studies been made? If so, what is contained in such reports?
4.	Have any orders been issued as the result of such studies? If so, what are such orders?


1.	Yes.
2.	By senior officials responsible for personnel, disciplinary and medical matters.
3.	Yes. The contents of reports made by officials within the department for departmental use are confidential and privileged.
4.	Yes. Assault courses as a form of exercise and training for personnel in detention barracks have been discontinued.


Has the government given consideration to recommending to Her Majesty the Queen that she confer an appropriate honour or decoration on Paul Rickey of Winnipeg, Manitoba, for his courageous conduct during the month of December?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to answer this question orally. Following news of the precautionary landing north of Winnipeg on December 21 of pilot Paul Theodore Rickey, and his subsequent gallant behaviour in protecting his passengers, I proceeded to recommend to the Secretary of State (Mr. Pickersgill) that consideration be given to an appropriate award being made to pilot Rickey in recognition of his courage and resourcefulness under extremely difficult conditions. The Secretary of State has agreed to refer the recommendation to the awards co-ordination committee for consideration.


How many orders in council have been passed under the provisions of the Emergency Powers Act, since the 1st day of April, 1953?


One.

ORDERS IN COUNCIL, 1952 AND 1953 Mr. Diefenbaker:
How many orders in council have been passed in each of the years 1952 and 1953?


1952 1953
Orders of the governor in council 4578 2033 Minutes of the treasury board approved by the governor in council	 4974 2045
Questions


1.	Have any major cities in Canada received assistance under the national health program towards the operation of city health services?
2.	If so, what were the grants and services for each city?


1.	Yes.
2.	The health departments of the following cities have been assisted as follows:
City	Total grants	During period	ServicesHalifax	$ 601	1952-54	Health education19,276	1951-52	Poliomyelitis programQuebec	127,906	1950-54	Child and maternal healthToronto	95,789	1949-54	Mental health20,216	1949-54	Tuberculosis ease-finding53,101	1949-54	Preventive orthodontic service32,815	1949-54	School audiometric service41,092	1951-54	Pilot demonstration in public healthWinnipeg	105,215	1949-54	Mental health49,709	1949-54	Chest X-ray surveys126,293	1949-54	Sanitation, food and dairy inspection34,306	1951-54	Public health nursing9,589	1948-53	Nutrition6,546	1950-54	School healthSaskatoon	49,679	1948-54	Public health nursing2,442	1948-54	Infant hygiene32,213	1948-54	School healthRegina	32,953	1949-54	Public health nursing3,968	1952-54	Sanitation16,525	1949-54	Mental health3,947	1953-54	Child healthCalgary	37,337	1949-54	Public health nursing15,082	1949-54	Preventive dental service14,751	1950-54	School health1,763	1953-54	SanitationEdmonton	28,662	1950-54	Public health nursing10,602	1950-54	Sanitation2,569	1952-54	Preventive dental service18,160	1952-54	School health servicesVancouver	28,811	1948-54	Health statistics75,633	1948-54	Mental hygiene76,657	1948-53	Tuberculosis rehabilitation103,262	1948-54	Dental hygiene131,483	1948-54	Public health nursing15,099	1948-54	Child health1,751	1948-52	Public health education6,063	1948-52	School health services90,166	1948-54	Environmental sanitation25,591	1948-54	Nutrition


In connection with the government telegraph and telephone system in British Columbia and the
Yukon:
1.	How many telephones are there in use on the whole system?
2.	How many exchanges, with how many switchboards respectively, and where is each located?
3.	How many poles?
4.	How many miles of wire?
5.	How many miles of copper wire?

Questions
6.	What is the net cost (installed) of the above totals of telephones, exchange switchboards, poles (with insulators and pole hardware) and wire respectively?


Mr. Speaker, this question and the one following have heretofore been on the order paper and I have answered them by writing to the hon. member at some length. I now have with me the answers which I should like to table but I should like to say that the answers do not contain all of the information included in the letter which I wrote to my hon. friend. However, they are an attempt to answer the questions to the best of the ability of my officers. My understanding with the hon. member was that if I would proceed to answer these questions in that manner, he would then withdraw the notice of motion which appears on the next page. Subject to that understanding I now table the answers to these two questions.
1.	4,720 as of 30 October 1953.
2.	Exchanges are located at the following points (where multiple switchboard positions are in operation the actual number is indicated after the place name): Alert Bay, Alexis Creek, Alice Arm, Ashcroft, Bamfield, Bella Coola, Burns Lake, Clinton (2), Fort St. James, Gibson's Landing, Hazelton, Kelsey Bay, Kildonan, Lillooet, Lytton, Massett, 100-Mile House, Port Alberni, Port Clements, Port Hardy, Port Renfrew, Queen Charlotte city, Quesnel (2), Sechelt, Smithers (3), Terrace (2), Tofino, Ucluelet, Vanderhoof, Wells, Williams Lake (2).
3.	There are 3,150 miles of pole line at approximately 35 poles per mile-110,250.
4.	17,661.
5.	11,354.
6.	Separate net cost of telephone plant not available.


1.	Are the repeater stations on the northern British Columbia and Yukon lines of the government telegraph and telephone system included in the sale of the said system to the British Columbia Telephone Company and Canadian National Telegraph Company?
2.	If so, to which company will they be sold?
3.	By whom will they be operated?
4.	How many such stations are there, where are they located, and when were they built, respectively?
5.	What was the total cost of construction?


1.	Yes.
2.	Canadian National Telegraphs, 4; British Columbia Telephone Company, 3.
3.	Canadian National Telegraphs, 4; British Columbia Telephone Company, 1.

4.	7; One each at 150-Mile House, Bella Coola, Kleena Kleene, Prince George, Burns Lake, Woodcock and Prince Rupert; the stations were completed in 1943 and 1944 except for two new staff houses built in 1953 at 150-Mile House.
5.	Approximately 685,500 including latest available figures on the two new staff houses at 150-Mile House and excluding repeater equipment originally installed at Bella Coola and Kleena Kleene.


1.	How many Canadian citizens have been convicted for failure to pay Income tax, during each of the past ten years?
2.	What was the total amount of fines imposed as a result of the said convictions, in each of the last ten years?
3.	How many convictions resulted in jail sentences, in each of the last ten years?


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and memoranda exchanged between the government, the department or Minister of Transport, or any other official or agent of the government on the one hand, and (a) the British Columbia Telephone Company; (b) the Canadian National Telegraph Company, on the other hand, regarding the sale to the telephone company and the telegraph company respectively of the government telegraph and telephone system in British Columbia and the Yukon.
He said: By leave of the house, Mr. Speaker, may I withdraw this motion pursuant to the arrangement to which the minister has referred.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.
Motion withdrawn.


For a copy of all orders in council and treasury orders issued since April 1, 1950, whereby customs duties or sales tax or both were remitted in excess of $1,000 in each case on supplies or machinery imported into Canada for (a) construction purposes generally; (b) oil and/or gas line construction; (c) the use of public utility distribution systems.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, memoranda and other documents exchanged between the government of British Columbia and

any department of the federal government from January 1, 1952 to date, regarding a request from the government of British Columbia for federal aid in the construction of a bridge between Vancouver and Sea Island.


Subject to the usual reservation about permission from the province with regard to their correspondence.


Subject to this reservation, is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


That, in the opinion of this house, the government should give consideration to the advisability of introducing legislation amending the Income Tax Act so as to remove the 3 per cent limitation from the section which makes provision for the deductibility of medical expenses for income tax purposes.
He said: Mr. Speaker, the subject matter of this motion is one which is familiar to all members of this House of Commons. Indeed, I am sure that its terms are familiar not only to those who were here in the last parliament but also to the new members of the house, for it is a subject that is quite familiar to the people of this country from one coast to the other.
As hon. members know, in the Income Tax Act there is a provision which permits income taxpayers, under certain conditions, to make a deduction from their taxable income in respect of medical expenses. However, it is important to note the conditions under which that right is extended. In the main, those conditions are three in number. In the first place, only those medical expenses can be deducted which meet the definition of "medical expenses" set out in the Income Tax Act. In the second place, there is a ceiling as to the total amount of medical expenses that any one taxpayer can enter when filling out his income tax form. In the third place there is the condition that an income taxpayer can deduct only that portion of his authorized medical expenses which is in excess of 3 per cent of his gross income.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I think it should be made clear that, although hon. members may have views on each of these three conditions that attach to the deductibility of medical expenses for income tax purposes, the resolution before the house this afternoon asks for
Income Tax Act
a change in only one of these three conditions. For my own part, I have no serious objection to the condition in the act having to do with the ceiling as to the total amount of expenses that one can claim as a deduction. That ceiling was raised in the budget of 1952 to the figures that are now in the act, and although there may be some members of the house who think the ceiling should be higher, I for one feel that that part of the provision respecting medical expenses is reasonable, and I do not suggest that the ceiling should be raised.
However, with regard to the definition of medical expenses I think that there is room for improvement, and despite the fact that I do not include suggestions respecting the definition of medical expenses in the motion before the house this afternoon I think the definition of medical expenses should be amended. At the present time that definition is such that it restricts a taxpayer mainly to amounts paid to doctors, dentists, nurses and hospitals, together with the right to include expenses for certain specified drugs. There are one or two other items that are included in the definition but there are many things that are not included. For example, at a time of illness many a family is faced with other expenses that can be quite substantial. The need for extra help in the home can be a very real medical expense occasioned by illness. The food budget can go out of line because 'of illness in the home. These matters are not taken into consideration at all when it comes to medical expenses for purposes of the Income Tax Act.
Likewise, spectacles and hearing aids are not allowed as medical expenses although a dentist's bill is allowed as a medical expense even though that bill may include the cost of dentures which it seems to me are comparable to spectacles or a hearing aid. I mention these shortcomings in the definition in passing so that I can point out that there is a field there in which something should also be done, and also so as to draw a line and make it clear that, so far as the motion before the house this afternoon is concerned, it asks for just one change in this section of the Income Tax Act. My motion asks that what is now known as the 3 per cent floor be abolished and that all medical expenses right from the first dollar up to the ceiling in the act be allowed as medical expenses for one computing his income tax at the end of the year.
Hon. members are, I am sure, quite aware of the history of this very important provision. The right to deduct certain medical expenses was first put on the statute books

Income Tax Act
in time to be effective for the calendar year 1943. At that time Mr. Ilsley, who brought it in, provided that only those medical expenses could be claimed which were in excess of 5 per cent of one's gross income. It was an acceptable provision to have, but we on the floor of the house soon began contending either that the 5 per cent floor should be lowered or that the floor should be wiped out altogether. As I have indicated before, we had a very interesting experience in connection with this matter in 1944. That year there was no proposal in Mr. Ilsley's budget speech or in his budget resolutions to do anything about the 5 per cent floor, but when we were in committee on the budget resolutions there were many requests from the floor of the house asking that the 5 per cent floor be either abolished altogether or at least reduced.
On that occasion we had support from all quarters of the house including very interesting and significant support from the present member for Ottawa West (Mr. Mcllraith), and on one point from the hon. member who is now Minister of National Revenue (Mr. McCann). At any rate, despite the fact that there had been no proposal to do anything about this point in Mr. Ilsley's budget speech or budget resolutions, he did respond to the representations made during the course of the debate and brought in a resolution later in the 1944 session which reduced the floor from 5 per cent to 4 per cent. It was one of those occasions few and far between when the government right during the course of the session made some concession to the arguments put forward on the floor of the house.
The 4 per cent floor remained at that level until last year. In the meantime some of us kept on arguing that just as 5 per cent was too high so 4 per cent was too high. We kept on arguing that the nature of medical expenses is such that they should be on the same basis as charitable donations and that they should be allowed deductibility right from the first dollar up to whatever limits are set in the act. For a number of years it was a case of a few voices crying in the wilderness until 1950 and 1951 when considerable support developed in the house for our contention that the 4 per cent floor should be wiped out. The high point in the support for the contention that the 4 per cent floor should be wiped out was of course reached on March 26, 1952, when my private member's motion, worded similarly to the one before the house today, was passed unanimously by the house.
I do not intend to take any time arguing about technicalities on which we have spent

time before. I recognize that my motion merely asked the house to express the view that the government should consider the advisability of removing the 4 per cent floor. I make the point, however, that that is all that a private member's motion can ask when money is involved, and I make the point that usually when the government allows a motion of that kind to pass it means that the government is favourably disposed to the substance behind that motion. Despite the unanimous support that the house gave to my motion on March 26, 1952, the present Minister of Finance (Mr. Abbott), who was Minister of Finance on that occasion, ignored that idea when he brought down the budget a short time later. As a matter of fact, not only did he ignore the express wish of the house that something be done about the removal of the 4 per cent floor, but he left the floor as it was and raised the ceiling. In other words, he did nothing to help the little fellow but did something to help the big fellow by raising the ceiling.
I pause, having referred to what happened on March 26, 1952, to remind the house that, in addition to the support we got away back in 1944 from the hon. member for Ottawa West and the present Minister of National Revenue, in 1952 we had the spoken support on the floor of the house of the hon. member for Rosedale (Mr. Henry), the hon. member for Portneuf (Mr. Gauthier), the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Maltais) and the hon. member for Skeena (Mr. Applewhaite) as well, of course, as the support of the present Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Sinclair), who was then parliamentary assistant to the Minister of Finance. It is interesting to note that all those members who openly supported this important resolution are back in the House of Commons once again. I hope that their support for this proposition will be evident today as it was in 1952.
As I pointed out, Mr. Speaker, despite the stand taken by the house on March 26, 1952, to the effect that the government should give consideration to removing the 4 per cent floor, nothing was done about it by the Minister of Finance when he introduced his budget a few days later. Of course, that did not mean the end of this campaign so far as I was concerned. I put the same motion on the order paper the next year, in 1953, and it was again debated. On that occasion however, as the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Macdonnell) will recall, the debate was rather short-lived. It occurred on January 12, 1953, and Hansard records that I made my speech arguing that the 4 per cent floor should be removed. Then the Minister of

Finance made a reply, at the end of which he simply moved the adjournment of the debate. I mentioned the hon. member for Greenwood because he was one of those who were rather shocked at the procedure being followed.
We objected to the action of the minister in moving the adjournment of the debate because that prevented others from speaking on this important question and prevented the house from taking a vote on the motion itself. We did our best to show our justifiable dislike for that procedure by forcing a vote on the minister's motion to adjourn the debate. The minister being on the other side, we lost that vote. I hope that course will not be followed today, but that the government will permit this debate to continue and will let the house make up its mind whether or not this motion should be passed. I hope we can count on the consistency of those members who supported the motion in 1952, and that they will support it again today. I hope all those members who helped make it a unanimous expression in 1952 will agree that this motion should be passed today.
I keep referring to the motion before us today as though it were exactly the same as the motion in 1953 or 1952. There is one significant difference. Despite the fact the Minister of Finance gave this debate a short life in 1953 by moving the adjournment of the debate, he paid some slight attention to the motion when he brought down the budget on February 19 of last year. As hon. members will recall, that was the occasion when cyclical budgeting brought the minister around to the idea of making certain tax reductions and certain concessions, for the election was not far off. He introduced a resolution lowering that 4 per cent floor to the figure of 3 per cent. It is the 3 per cent figure which will apply for the tax year 1953. In other words, when the taxpayers, in a month or so, start making out their income tax returns they will be able to deduct medical expenses in excess of 3 per cent of their gross income.
Well, that is good, Mr. Speaker. We are making progress. We started out with 5 per cent, then it was made 4 per cent and how we have it down to 3 per cent. It does seem strange that so many bites have to be taken to implement what, in my view, is unquestionably a matter of correct principle. I hope we will not have to wait for two or three more elections to get three more bites in order to remove the 3 per cent floor. Surely, it is time to face up to the principle in this matter and completely wipe out the floor.
Income Tax Act
One of the arguments that the minister keeps using against this proposal to remove the floor is that there is a certain average of medical expenses which people have to pay. In his view, income tax deductibility should be allowed only when medical expenses get above that average. I dislike referring again to a story I told once before. However, it is the minister's own story, and I think it is a good one. I think it drives home the point better than half an hour of argument. It is the story of the occasion when the Minister of Finance was in conversation with the late deputy minister of finance, Dr. Clark. Apparently Dr. Clark was saying something about averages, and the minister asked him if he had heard about the man six feet tall who had drowned in a body of water the average depth of which was only five feet. I think the minister's own story makes the point very well. These averages are no help to a person who has even the average expenses, let alone the person who has expenses far above them.
In addition to that, I suggest to the minister and to the government that they cannot continue using this idea about averages because as time goes on people are spending more on medical expenses than in years gone by. The manner in which we live may be responsible for that, or perhaps it is that medical science is developing and there are more ailments known with which doctors and hospitals can deal. Whatever the reasons, we are spending more. I suggest that the average portion of our expenses that Canadians are spending on health is going up all the time. Health is important, and it is a good thing that we should devote an ever larger portion of our income to the maintenance of good health. At the same time we are spending more, the minister is prepared to lower the exemption from 5 per cent to 4 per cent and then down to 3 per cent.
If the 3 per cent floor is based on average expenses, according to his reasoning he should be consistent and raise the floor instead of lowering it. I am mighty glad he has not thought of it, and I hope I have not put the idea in his head. The fact is that the argument really carries no further validity, in view of the fact the government has not given any figures to which to tie this reduction from 4 per cent to 3 per cent. It seems to me, Mr. Speaker, that the arguments against this proposal, which were never valid, are disappearing one by one. I hope that in this session, even though it is three or four years before an election and the time when tax concessions are made, we will have recognition of this principle and that something will be done about the matter.

Income Tax Act
I have done this perhaps several times when I have raised this question, but I think I shall have to do it again. I have given a few examples to show what happens to a taxpayer, on the one hand, if he makes a certain contribution to charity, and on the other hand, what happens if he incurs that same amount of medical expenses during the course of a year. In both cases there are ceilings as to the amounts one can claim by way of income tax deductibility. But in the case of charitable donations, one is allowed, as a deduction, the first dollar one gives away, provided a proper receipt is obtained for it. In the case of medical expenses, however, one does not get the first dollar or the first ten dollars, in fact one does not get any dollars allowed until one gets above 3 per cent of the gross income.
Let us take the case of a married man without any children. Let us suppose it is a case where the Income is $200 a month or $2,400 a year. If that man has no exemption other than the statutory one, the total amount of tax he would pay for the year 1953 would be $72. That includes the old age security tax. I might add that throughout these examples I am using the rates which people will have to pay by April 30 of this year when they file their income tax returns for last year's income. Now, if that taxpayer has medical expenses during the course of the year amounting to $200 the tax saving he will receive against that $72 is $23.04. One arrives at that by taking 3 per cent of his gross income of $2,400, and then giving him a deduction on the portion in excess of that.
However, if this same taxpayer who would receive a saving of $23.04 in lieu of $200 medical expenses were to give away $200 to approved charities, the tax concession he would get for that in the year would be $36. I have no objection to the tax concession made in respect of charitable donations. But it does seem to me that the treatment accorded in respect of charitable donations made voluntarily should be the same treatment accorded to medical expenses made involuntarily.
Let me take the case of a married man with a wife and two children, having a total income of $300 a month or $3,600 a year. Let us assume in this case medical expenses of $300. If this couple did not have medical expenses or any other allowable deduction they would pay on their 1953 income at the end of April the sum of $240. For medical expenses of $300 they will get a tax concession of $38.40. But if they gave away to approved charities the same amount of $300 their tax concession would be $60. This couple is given $60 by

way of tax relief for giving away $300, but a concession of only $38.40 by way of tax relief if they have to pay $300 in medical expenses.
Bear in mind that no question is raised as to the average amount people give away to charities; that deductibility is allowed right from the first dollar. But in the matter of medical expenses the question of the so-called average is raised.
Let me go on and take another example. In this instance I shall work it out for a married couple with two children, and an income of $5,000 a year. In that case the gross tax is $537.50. If they had medical expenses of $500 in the year they would get tax relief of $78.75, but if instead of medical expenses of $500 in that year they had made charitable donations of the same amount they would have tax relief of $112.50. Let me repeat those figures: $112.50 tax relief if they give away $500 but only $78.75 if they are faced with the necessity of paying medical expenses to the same amount.
Then let me go down the scale again to the married couple with two children and an income of $200 a month or $2,400 a year. In that instance their gross tax, without any special deductions, would be just $18 a year. Let us suppose that they have medical bills in that year amounting to $100. The tax saving given on that $100 is only $5.04; but if they gave away $100 in the year the tax saving would be $18.
Again let me take the case of a married couple with two children and an income of $3,000 a year. In that instance the gross tax would be $126. If they have medical expenses of $100 a year their tax saving because of this 3 per cent floor would be only $1.80. But if they gave away $100 in the year their tax saving would be $18, ten times as much.
Depending upon the examples, the relationships differ. However, I draw particular attention to this example, using figures which I suggest are not uncommon. I refer to the couple with two children and an income of $3,000 a year, with $100 to be paid either as medical expenses or by way of charitable donations. Yet, because of that 3 per cent floor, this family would get ten times the tax relief for the contribution of $100 that it would get for the same expenditure by way of medical expenses. It is only $1.80 in one case but $18 in the other.
Without going into detail, the married couple with a salary of $3,000 a year and with four children, spending the same amount of $100, would be treated in exactly the same

way-$1.80 tax relief for $100 of medical exenses but $18 tax relief for $100 charitable donations.
It seems to me that the unfairness of this floor, and what it does to the taxpayer with medical expenses, as compared with what it does to the taxpayer who makes church and charitable contributions must surely be obvious to everyone. It has been obvious to members in the past. It was obvious in the debates prior to 1952. I know many members spoke to me in those days and suggested that this was a case that surely should be met by the government. It was obvious to members in 1952 when they supported the motion calling upon the government to consider the removal of the floor, and certainly it was obvious to the people of Canada that this change should be made, because it was a matter of considerable interest in the press-and particularly in that year when the house expressed its view, and when the government flew in the face of that view.
I urge the house on this occasion to give its approval once again to the motion. And this time I hope when that has been done the government will take that expression of opinion on the part of the house much more seriously than it did in 1952. In fact, I think it should be taken more seriously than it was in 1953 because, although the minister did something in that year when he reduced the floor from 4 per cent to 3 per cent, it must be remembered that that action was taken on the eve of an election. And, even so, it was not good enough.
Not only do I contend for the resolution on the ground of its essential fairness, which I think is borne out by the comparative treatment I have indicated as between medical expenses and charitable donations, but for the other reason I have already indicated, namely that medical expenses as defined in the act do not cover all the bills that hit a family when there is illness in the home. I could refer to some of the other things that are not covered, and make special mention of glasses and hearing aids. I have referred also to the extra cost of help when illness strikes in a home. I would be the first to recognize that it would be pretty hard to work out a definition that would really cover everything, and I recognize in particular the problem with respect to extra help. I understand it might be argued that in some cases such help was really necessary while in others it was not, but that a person of some means might want to spend money in that way.
Income Tax Act
As I say, I will be the first to recognize these points. But the very fact that you cannot work out a definition that will cover all medical expenses makes it all the more urgent that the medical expenses that are defined, including payments to doctors and hospitals, and the like, should be allowed right from the first dollar. I know of few issues which come before the house in connection with which justice and fairness indicate so clearly what should be done.
Another example of the failure of the present provision to fill the bill has to do with drugs such as insulin. A few years ago when the minister broadened the definition of medical expenses allowable under the act he included insulin and made a great to-do about it as well. I could bring to this house a good many letters from users of insulin who wondered at all the fuss. The fact of the matter is that although they are faced with a heavy cost for insulin during the course of the year, because of what was the 4 per cent floor and is now the 3 per cent floor they find they do not get to that floor or they do not get very far over it, so in many, if not in most cases, that provision for that particular drug is just so many words in the act. It does not mean anything to the persons who are really affected.
The same applies to some other drugs that are mentioned in the act, not to mention the fact that in my view there are still other drugs that have not been included in that definition and which as I see it certainly should be.
Another reason why I contend that this motion should be passed by the house and its substance acted upon by the government is that it moves in the direction in which society is thinking these days. I for one want to make it perfectly clear-perhaps I do not need to as this house knows me well enough-that even if this motion were passed it would not be the last word from me or from this group on matters of health. This is just a drop in the bucket; this is just a small step in the right direction. There is no doubt about it that we want to go on to a program of adequate health insurance and health coverage for the people of this country. It is because it is a step in that direction that I feel the government should at least move that way.
The Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Martin) has got to the point where he not only dislikes my questions about health insurance, he will not give me an answer in substance, or he has even forgotten the number of times he has said that. The fact of the matter is that no less a person than the Conservative minister of health in

Income Tax Act
the province of Ontario thinks that within five years we will have health insurance or at least hospital insurance covering every person in Canada.
I commend that to my good friend, the hon. member for Winnipeg South (Mr. Trainor), who does not share my views on this question, who thinks that this party has too much to say about health insurance. In fact I will pass this clipping over to him right away which shows what the Ontario minister of health thinks on that question. The hon. member for Winnipeg South says that Dr. Phillips does not say how he is going to bring it about. It is true there are problems to be worked out, but I give that as an example from the extreme right in this country of the way Canadians are thinking. The fact is accepted that the care of the health of the people of this country is something of extreme importance and that more and more we have to make the necessary changes in our economy to take care of the health of the people of this country.
This move that I am proposing is