Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Minister of Trade and Commerce I wish to lay on the table copies in English and in French of a communique on the review of the general agreement on tariffs and trade, together with a brief press release that was issued this morning. I should also say that, as stated in the house on Friday last by the minister, the text of the agreement has not yet been received but is expected shortly.


On behalf of the Minister of Transport I beg leave to table the following reports for the year 1954 in English and in French:
(1)	Annual report of the Canadian National Railways.
(2)	Annual report of Canadian National (West Indies) Steamships, Limited.
(3)	Auditors' report to parliament in respect of Canadian National Railway system and the Canadian National (West Indies) Steamships, Limited.


Mr. Speaker, I beg leave to move, seconded by the hon. member for Portneuf (Mr. Gauthier):
That the name of Mr. Holowach be substituted for that of Mr. Low on the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines; and
That the name of Mr. Hardie be substituted for that of Mr. Decore, and that the name of Mr. Power (St. John's West) be substituted for that of Mr. Pickersgill, and that the name of Mr. Harkness be substituted for that of Mr. Fulton, and that the name of Mr. Churchill be substituted for that of Mr. Starr, and that the name of Mr. McBain be substituted for that of Mr. Michener on the special committee on estimates.


Mr. Weir moves, seconded by the hon. member for Portneuf, that- shall I dispense with the reading of the motion?


Dispense.


Mr. Speaker, do I understand that the motion does not contain the suggestion or rather the words that the name of Mr. Lesage be substituted for that of Mr. Lafontaine.


I had better read the motion. It is as follows:
That the name of Mr. Holowach be substituted for that of Mr. Low on the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines; and
That the name of Mr. Hardie be substituted for that of Mr. Decore, and that the name of Mr. Power (St. John's West) be substituted for that of Mr. Pickersgill, and that the name of Mr. Harkness be substituted for that of Mr. Fulton, and that the name of Mr. Churchill be substituted for that of Mr. Starr, and that the name of Mr. McBain be substituted for that of Mr. Michener on the special committee on estimates.
Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


I apologize for it, Mr. Speaker, but there is an error. This motion is not the same as the motion contained in last Friday's Votes and Proceedings. In the motion the name of Mr. Lesage appears as a substitution for Mr. Lafontaine. It is a typewritten sheet that I was using when I spoke today. The correct motion is the one that appears in Votes and Proceedings of Friday last.


Therefore the hon. member is moving a motion which is similar in terms to that which appears in Friday's Votes and Proceedings?


That is right.


That would include the
following words:
that the name of Mr. Lesage be substituted for that of Mr. Lafontaine.


That is right.


Mr. Speaker, this motion is debatable under the circumstances in which it now appears. I thought perhaps we could have had this matter discussed and disposed of on Friday but that was apparently not the desire of some hon. members. I rise now for the purpose of moving an amendment that will have the effect of ensuring that the minister of the department whose estimates are before the

Committees of the House special committee on estimates will not be a member of that body while his departmental estimates are being considered.
I fully realize that it is unusual to oppose these motions inasmuch as they are, generally speaking, the results of discussion within parties and between parties and relate to the personnel which it is desired by those parties to have represent them on these various special committees. But as is perfectly obvious from the inclusion of the name of Mr. Lesage -and I am using the name as it appears in the motion-the effect of this particular change will be to appoint the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources to be a member of that committee, and it has been arranged that it is the estimates of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources which are next to be considered by the committee. This is the only way in which we in this party can make the points which we feel very strongly indeed, namely that the minister of a department should not be a member of the committee while the estimates of that department are being considered. If it were not for that feature of this motion, I would of course not be speaking to it or objecting to it in any way.
We have a particular reason for our feeling that the minister of a department whose estimates are before the committee should not be a member of the committee during that time. This committee on estimates is, to a great extent, an experimental committee in so far as this parliament is concerned. It is therefore, I am sure, the feeling of all hon. members that it is necessary to get it off to a good start and to set it up on a basis where its proceedings and reports will command the support and the confidence not only of the members of the committee but of the house as a whole. As I understood it when it was discussed, its purpose was to make a close, impartial and unfettered scrutiny of the estimates of various departments. We feel very strongly that it is not conducive to such a scrutiny as I have described if the minister of the department concerned is a member of the committee while his estimates are before it.
I find support for that view in the experience of what takes place elsewhere. I am informed that the experience in the United Kingdom supports the view that I am expressing here. I realize fully of course that the United Kingdom practice and experience are not in any sense binding upon us, but I do suggest that it is a very useful guide. They have had a committee on estimates that has functioned for well over 20 years now, and from what I have been able to find it is regarded on all sides there as a very useful 

committee. I am informed that the suggestion would not be considered for a moment that the minister of the department whose estimates are under investigation should be appointed to that committee. It is true, I understand, that on occasion there they do appoint parliamentary assistants as members of these committees, and I can assure you, sir, that we on this side would have no objection whatsoever, in the case of a department having a parliamentary assistant, if the *parliamentary assistant were to be suggested as a member of the committee.
But I take the liberty to say here, and I say it deliberately because I think it is important that the committee be set up on a proper basis, that the brief course of the existence of this committee confirms us in the opinion that ministers should not be members while their departments are being investigated. I ask you, Mr. Speaker, and I ask hon. members to consider some of the reasons why this should not be done, reasons which are based on the experience we have already had. If the minister whose department is before the committee is a member of that committee then he will obviously have views as to how the committee should conduct its investigation and in what manner it should take up the estimates of the department. Certainly that has been the experience with the Department of Citizenship and Immigration.
Whenever a suggestion was made as to how the consideration of its estimates should be conducted, the minister, after he had had himself made a member, took a very definite position on each suggestion. He expressed his opinion the moment after any motion had been moved which had a bearing upon the course and method of inquiry and he expressed himself, as was his right when he was a member, in no uncertain terms and in most cases as very definitely opposed to the suggestions that had been made. I submit that whatever may be the view of the merits of the suggestions which were made-and I am not going to discuss the merits here because this is not the time and place-the fact is that if that is to be the pattern and the minister is going to express himself against such suggestions very frequently, it makes of every such suggestion a minor test of confidence in the government. Quite obviously if the minister expresses his opinion one way it will be very difficult indeed, human nature being what it is, and I think this would happen in any committee no matter what party formed the government, for the members of that committee who are supporters of the government to take a position opposite to that of the minister.

The result is that the presence of the minister and the expression of his opinion as to how the inquiry and consideration should be conducted have an effect on the committee which is out of all proportion to the fact that the opinion is expressed by an individual. It becomes something quite different from an expression of opinion of an individual; it becomes an expression of opinion of the minister and is so regarded. The result is, as I have said, that every such incident is turned into a minor test of confidence in the government. I suggest to hon. members, and I ask them to consider the matter as one of concern to parliament as a whole, that it is not desirable that the very course and nature of the committee's inquiry, that is to say, its decisions as to how it is going to conduct the inquiry, should be thus influenced by the minister of the department whose estimates are being considered.
It is our feeling, and a feeling we hold very strongly, that here parliament is investigating and considering estimates placed before it by the government and that it should not be a party matter but should be a group of private members of the house from all parties who, as distinct from the executive, meet to examine the proposals for expenditure placed before parliament by the executive. The point I am making is not one of interest exclusively to opposition members of the committee. It is a point of principle which I submit should be considered just as vitally and carefully by members on the government side, and one which should appeal to them as much as it does to members on this side of the house.
It is perfectly true that there are occasions when ministers quite normally are made members of special and standing parliamentary committees. For instance, there is the committee on the C.B.C. It is usual, although not invariable, for the Minister of National Revenue to be made a member of that committee. As I recall, the same is true of the sessional committee on government-owned railways and shipping. The Minister of Transport and the Minister of Trade and Commerce are usually members of that committee when Canadian National Railways and Trans-Canada Air Lines are respectively being considered. But I point out that there is a very real difference between these committees and a committee of the type we are considering now in that these committees do not consider estimates of a department as a whole. It is true that the ministers I have mentioned are responsible to the house for the agencies of government or corwn corporations being considered. That is a very different thing 50433-139
Committees of the House from the position in a committee considering the estimates of a whole department and the administration of the department itself.
Examples much more directly applicable to the situation we now have, and which are indeed compelling precedents, can be found in our own experience in the standing committee on external affairs and the standing committee on banking and commerce. The whole estimates of the Department of External Affairs are referred to the standing committee which considers the details of administration of that department. I think if members will consult the record they will find I am correct in saying that it is not the practice that the Secretary of State for External Affairs should ever be a member of that committee. The same is true of the banking and commerce committee. It is very rarely indeed, if ever, that the Minister of Finance is made a member of that committee. I suggest that the precedent of the external affairs committee is exactly in point because there you have the estimates of the department referred by the house to the committee for consideration.
I would not suggest for a moment, and it is not my purpose to suggest, that the minister should not come before the committee on estimates. Obviously he must be there, but it is perfectly possible and, I submit, appropriate for the minister to be there even though not a member, and to attend as a witness or in any other capacity which the committee itself might devise for him. As a witness he could give to the committee all the information that committee asked for or wanted. He could answer questions fully and frankly, but he would not be in a position where he could express his opinion, as of right, every time a suggestion was made as to the method of conducting this inquiry, which I submit to you, sir, is a matter for the committee to decide for itself. It should be uninfluenced by the views of a particular minister.
Now, I do not know what other members or ministers may take part in this debate, but I should think it is quite likely the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration (Mr. Pickers-gill) will do so. I should think it is quite likely he will say that he appeared before the committee for a time, not as a member but in the status of a witness, and that he found it desirable and considered it essential and proper that he should be allowed to make a statement which would be in the nature of a statement of privilege. He may say that it was suggested that since he was only a witness and not a member he did not have, as of right, the opportunity to make
2198	HOUSE OF
Committees of the House that statement. This, sir, is quite true, but I point out to you what was said there and what would, I am quite sure, be said on any similar occasion. That was, that if the minister were involved or if he felt the matter involved him to such an extent- whether personally or in his official capacity-that he should be heard, he would be given the right to be heard.
I point out to you that on this occasion, and I mention this specifically because I expect the minister himself may make some reference to it, the minister was unanimously accorded the right to speak on his question of privilege immediately that he sought that right. I use the word "immediately", but qualified only to this extent, that after some quite brief preliminary discussion as to his position and as to whether he had the right as a witness to demand that he be heard, he was accorded the right. The matter was discussed quite briefly, and in the course of the discussion it was stated by those of us who raised the point that we felt if the minister wanted to make a statement he should be heard. What we wanted to have decided was his status before the committee. This appears at page 109 of the records of the committee:


Is it agreed that the minister he heard?


Agreed.


Unanimously.
The chairman himself emphasized the unanimity. It would always be unanimously agreed, if a minister felt he had to make a statement of that sort, that he be given the right to be heard.
But that is a very different thing again from the right which the ministers will now have if they are members of this committee, to express opinions as to how the inquiry should be conducted, and how the committee's task should be carried out, and to vote on suggestions made as to how their estimates should be considered.
I think, sir, that is, in as brief a compass as I can give it, the main outline of the considerations before us. I suggest in addition that there are some anomalies which arise if ministers are to appear in any other capacity than as witnesses. As I understand it, it was the feeling of a considerable number of members here that we should be able to call and examine directly the departmental officials. Then, when it was decided, as it was not by the committee but here, and we found ourselves confronted with a fait accompli when the minister appeared as a member rather than as a witness, a question was raised as to the role of departmental officials. Must we appoint all of them to be


members of the committee or in what sort of absurd position were we to be? If the minister's position was that he could speak to us only when he was a member, what about those departmental officials who would appear? We were given the extraordinary answer that these gentlemen were not there as witnesses or as members of the committee, but they were there as "emanations of the minister". Shades of Mackenzie King! I just wonder what more ridiculous position one could get into than that position which was thrust upon the minister as a result of the position he himself took, a position he was forced into as a result of his earlier position that he had to be a member of the committee and could not be a witness.
Because we feel that it is essential this committee should get off to a good start, and because on the basis of past experience we know that if we do not raise an objection now it will be held up to us in subsequent sessions as a precedent, we feel we must record our protest at this stage as strongly as we can. I can imagine some hon. members might say -why do you not see how the thing works during this session and then before another session we will consider any changes that should be made on the basis of our experience in the committee after the minister had himself appointed as a member? I recall that when we wanted to raise the question in the committee, we were criticized because we had not raised it in the house. We were told, you did not object in the house so you should not object here. I know quite well that if we let the matter go to another session then we would be told, you did not object last session so why are you objecting now? I believe, sir, this is the appropriate time, and this is the only time, when protests and suggestions of this sort should be made.
In my submission, they should be made at the time when we first embark on the course of this committee so that we will have an opportunity of considering all the implications, and what is to be done to try to get this committee set up on a basis that will enable it to do its job of a close, impartial and unfettered scrutiny of the estimates of government spending. I submit it can only do that job if it is not influenced, as for the reasons I have given it must be influenced, by the presence of ministers as members. This has the result of turning every suggestion as to how the inquiry should be conducted into a test of confidence. We are just not going to get the serious and non-partisan consideration of the estimates and of all possible economies in government spending that we should if the committee proceedings are conducted in that atmosphere. I submit to you, sir, and to all

hon. members, that that will be the atmosphere and must be the atmosphere if ministers are to be members of the committee while their estimates are before that committee.
If they want to be members of the committee while the estimates of other departments are being considered, there could of course be no objection whatever. The result of my amendment would be to leave, so far as I am concerned, the other personnel of the committee unchanged. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Lanark (Mr. Blair):
That the motion be amended by deleting therefrom the words "and that the name of Mr. Lesage be substituted for that of Mr. Lafontaine" where they appear at lines 6 and 7 thereof.
I point out, just for the information of hon. members and in case inferentially any other suggestion should have been made or should appear, that in moving this amendment I have no criticism whatever of the individual minister whose name appears in the motion. Under normal circumstances, there would be no question of opposing a motion for change in the personnel of a committee. This opposition is confined exclusively to the fact that the hon. member whose name appears is the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources whose estimates will be before the committee tomorrow. The motion is directed exclusively towards that situation.


I should like to ask a question, and I shall ask it of the house leader. When the estimates-


Order.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to oppose this amendment as the only member of the government who has had experience on this committee which the hon. member for Kamloops (Mr. Fulton) rightly described as an experimental committee. It was my understanding, sir, and I think it was the understanding of most members of the house, that this committee, so far as it could be, was to be a miniature of the committee of supply, and that it would conduct its scrutiny of the estimates in the same way as the committee of supply itself, with certain modifications which I intend to mention in a moment or two.
Now, the hon. member for Kamloops has said that he was raising this matter as a point of principle. I intend to reply on exactly the same basis. The hon. member for Kamloops gave an excellent description of the way in which our constitution could be amended to make it conform with the American system. And not only did he do 50433-1394
Committees of the House that, but he actually used the words, "examination by private members, distinct from the executive."
Now, my understanding, sir, of our system of government is that the executive is not distinct from the legislative body, and it is certainly not distinct from the body which votes public money; those of us who in this house are members of the executive are also members of parliament, we are here as members of parliament, and we have the same rights as any other members of parliament. And, what is more, the whole basis of our system is that the ministers must retain the confidence of a majority of members in this house. Surely, as members of parliament, ministers are entitled to all the rights of members of parliament for the purpose of maintaining that confidence. It would be wholly invidious and, I suggest, fundamentally unconstitutional, to deny to a minister, when the most fundamental of all his duties is being considered, namely his responsibility for his department-it would be invidious to deny him the same right to speak that other members of parliament have. And that is precisely the purpose of the hon. member's amendment.
He said it might be all right for the Minister of National Revenue, who is the channel of communication between this house and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, to be a member of a committee in that context, and he gave one or two other examples. But, he said, when the whole department was being considered, the minister should be kept out-doors.
Now, I think that is the most incredible proposition that I have ever heard put forward in any British legislative assembly, anywhere.
Now, as a matter of fact-


I am sure the minister does not wish to use an expression I did not use. He must know there is a great difference between "kept out-doors", which is the expression he used, and being allowed to come as a witness, which were the words I used.


I will come to that in a moment. Perhaps my expression was a little bit strong. Perhaps I should not have said "kept out-doors"; perhaps I should have said "put out-doors", whenever private members wanted to do so.
As a matter of fact I found myself in the position which I was obliged to describe -and I think hon. members know that I am pretty cautious and careful in my expressions-as being comparable to that of a prisoner in the box.
2200	HOUSE OF
Committees of the House


And you had yourself made a member of the jury.


Precisely, which I was elected to be by the people of Bonavista-Twillingate, just as the hon. member was elected for Kamloops-and I think the electors of Bonavista-Twillingate are as well represented.
I come now to the hon. member's suggestion that the minister might be a witness. Now, of course, when the question arose as to what the minister was in this committee, it was clear that he was not a witness, because the committee had no power to send for witnesses.


Because of limitations.


The hon. member for
Kamloops has interjected that it was because of limitations. I admit it would be within the power of the house to give the committee power to send for witnesses; and if it were given the power to send for witnesses perhaps it could call as a witness a member of the house-although I must say that calling members of the House of Commons as witnesses strikes me as a little strange.
However, I do not pose as an expert on the rules, and I do not wish to express any firm opinion on the point. But I do say this, that if a minister can be a witness and if he appears only as a witness, then he cannot intervene in the proceedings in any way when any other witness is to be heard.
Now, I assume that any other witnesses could be of only two kinds, either members of the staff of the department or outsiders who are presumed to have some knowledge of the department.
As for members of the staff of his department, I shall have something to say about that later on. But I wish to say something first about the so-called expert witnesses who might be called from outside the department. I cannot think there could be any constitutional objection to the house, if it wishes, giving to the committee the power to send for witnesses who are not public servants, if the house thought that was desirable. Personally I do not think it would advance the work of the committee. I do not think there would be any constitutional objection to the committee having the power to call witnesses; but look at the position a minister would be in if he was not a member of the committee in those circumstances. Here would be someone posing as an expert in matters concerning the minister's department, and making statements, and being asked questions about the minister's department, and the minister would be left without any power whatsoever to defend himself.


That is surely contrary to our conception of the way government is carried on under our parliamentary system. And, indeed, the chief whip reminds me that, not at the present session, but only a session or two ago one of the committees was sitting and certain allegations were made-it was the committee on agriculture. Allegations were made about my right hon. friend, and it was necessary to appoint him a member of the committee so that he was in a position to defend himself and his department-which, surely, ministers have the right to do, as long as we are responsible to the House of Commons for the administration of our departments.
Therefore I suggest that making the minister a witness, if there are other witnesses going to be called, would be totally inadequate.
Then, the hon. member referred to the other kind of witness. He made the suggestion that the committee should have the right to call officials of the minister's department as witnesses, without regard to the minister's wishes in the matter. It is the minister, sir, who is responsible for the administration of his department. And it seems to me that if a parliamentary committee-I said this in the committee in camera and I will say it here in the House of Commons, in public-that if a parliamentary committee insisted upon calling as witnesses the officials of a minister's department, and the minister took exception to it, there would be only one proper course for that minister to take, and that would be to submit his resignation at once.
That does not mean that officials cannot be heard in these committees. As soon as I appeared before the committee I dealt with that question, and I think the matter is important enough that I should read to the house what I said at that time. I may say that not one member of the committee dissented from my view. This is what I said on February 24, as it appears at page 10 of the proceedings of the committee:
The view I have taken on what I should do is to use my own judgment when a question is asked as to whether it is the type of question I should take the responsibility of answering myself or the type of question I should ask one of the officers of the department to answer.
I do not intend myself to answer questions which do not involve policy and which do involve detail, because I think it would be quite ridiculous for me to turn to one of these gentlemen here and ask him to whisper the answer to me. He is far more capable of giving the answer himself because I do not pretend to be an expert on the details of the department. However, I would like it clearly understood that any question which I wish to answer myself I have the right to answer exclusively.

It seems to me, it we have the responsibility as ministers, we must take it and that is the only right attitude to take in a matter of this kind.
The hon. member for Kamloops made what I was going to describe as his feeble little joke about the word "emanations". I think it is an absolutely correct description of the position of the officials before a committee of this kind. Their position is in no respect different from their position in the committee of supply except this. In the committee of supply they whisper to the minister and the minister says out loud what they have said to him, if he feels so inclined. Upstairs, we bring to the committee officers in whom we have confidence to answer questions we are willing to have them answer on our behalf, and we take the responsibility for what they say. In other words they are simply, if you do not like the word "emanations", agents, but that is the status in which they appear.
It seems to me that if vje want to import the United States' system, if we want to have a division of powers, if we want to exclude the executive from the house itself, we should adopt this amendment; but if we want to maintain our system of responsible government, it should be turned down. And I hope that all hon. members, even those sitting around the hon. member for Kamloops, will remember that reluctantly, after it had been gained, the Conservatives of 100 years ago accepted responsible government.
I want to make one other point, sir. In bringing on this amendment the hon. member for Kamloops has made a very serious attack upon the rights of minority parties in this house. If we, the majority party, may not choose from among our own members those we want to sit on the committee, how can the minority parties safeguard the right to choose the ones they want? If the hon. member for Kamloops can rise in his place and move that Mr. Lesage should not be substituted for Mr. Lafontaine, what is to stop the Secretary of State for External Affairs from moving that Mr. Fulton be excluded from the committee and that Mr. Hamilton be put in his place?


I have been expecting that any day.


I do not for one minute think that anybody in the majority in this house would ever do such a thing. But I suggest that in moving this amendment at all, the hon. member for Kamloops is spreading abroad ideas that are pretty subversive of parliamentary government.


Mr. Speaker, the amendment which has been proposed by the hon. member for
Committees of the House Kamloops does raise several issues, and it will not be surprising if, as they try to think about this question, hon. members will be confused because of the various issues that are raised. It does seem to me that we shall have to make our decision having regard to what we regard as the most important of the principles raised by this amendment.
I wish to say first of all that I regret that the government has decided that it wants the minister in charge of the department whose estimates are before the committee to be made a member of the committee. The government has that right, but I regret they have decided to try to do it in that way. It would have been much better if the government had carried on with what apparently was its original intention of having the minister whose estimates are before the department appear before the committee as a witness.
I indicate, as support for my statement that that apparently was the government's original intention, the fact that when the estimates of the Department of Citizenship and Immigration were referred to that committee, for the first few meetings the minister appeared there as a witness. It was only when it was found that he could not speak quite as often as he wished to that he was made a member of the committee. I suggest that that, together with the main motion before us now, indicates that the government has decided on a change. But in my view it would have been much better had the minister continued to be a witness before the committee.
I speak as one who for a number of years has been a member of the external affairs committee. I can say it is quite satisfactory on that committee that the Secretary of State for External Affairs appears before us not as a member of the committee but as our chief witness.
The second thing I want to say is that, along with the hon. member for Kamloops and others, I regret that the committee on estimates was not given the power to send for persons, papers and records. The Minister of Citizenship and Immigration said a few moments ago that the hon. member for Kamloops had found it not as easy as he thought to remedy that situation. The reason he did not find it easy was because of the strong objection thereto on the government side. It could be remedied very easily any time the government decides that it would strengthen the usefulness of the committee to give to it from this house the power to send for persons, papers and records. In other words, Mr. Speaker, I feel there are improvements that could be made with respect to the procedures being followed by this committee.

Committees of the House
However, Mr. Speaker, there is one other principle which is raised by this amendment so far as I am concerned. I speak quite bluntly. It is the most important of the principles that are raised. It is important to me because I am a member of a minority group. The chief government whip across the way is looking at me just now and I am looking at him. When this motion gets out of the way he has another one in his pocket which I asked him to move today, substituting other names of C.C.F. members on certain committees. If I were to oppose the request of the government party for certain changes in their personnel, what right would I have to ask the government party to agree to my request for changes in our personnel?
It seems to me that this principle is basic, namely, that every party in this house has the unquestioned right, without interference from the other parties, to decide its personnel on the committees of this house. We claim for the C.C.F. group the right to determine who the C.C.F. members shall be on the committees of this house. If we claim that right so far as this group is concerned, we have to contend for the same right for the Social Crediters, the Progressive Conservatives and also for the Liberals.
Some may argue that there is a difference when you are substituting cabinet ministers for private members. I cannot but agree with the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration that cabinet ministers, when they sit on the floor of this house, are members of parliament as are the rest of us. Let it be also said that so far as the other groups are concerned we sometimes change backbenchers for frontbenchers, or frontbenchers for backbenchers. Is that not in effect the same thing that has arisen on the government side? Therefore, I submit that if we minority groups in this house claim and assert the right of determining who our own members on this and on other committees shall be, we have to accord that right to the majority party as well.
Despite the many overbearing, dictatorial things that emanate from the other side of the house, I am quite satisfied that they will not retaliate to this amendment today by moving an amendment against the wishes of the Progressive Conservative party, but I do not think we should take advantage of our hope that they will not do that. Thus it seems to me the issue here, the issue that is most important in this motion is whether or not each party group in this house has the right to choose who its members will be on the various committees. If I contend we have that right in this group, I must govern myself accordingly when any other group seeks to exercise that same right.
TMr. Knowles.]


Mr. Speaker, when estimates are being considered by the committee of the whole the most important man on the committee is the minister who has the rights of a private member. I understood that the purpose of having estimates considered by a committee was to save time. As I see it now it is a waste of time because when estimates are now sent to a group of members of this house without including the minister, if the minister cannot be a member and witnesses are called, then according to my thinking it is merely disrespect to the ability and interests of the minister.


Mr. Speaker, although I am not a member of the committee I should like to say a word or two and to revert to one or two things that were said during the debate on the setting up of the committee.
We have heard a constitutional argument made by the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration (Mr. Pickersgill) which I do not propose to follow, but I do want to go back to stress what was said when this committee was set up.
It was stated that it was to be an experiment. Most of us thought, not that it was to be an attempt to create a small committee of the whole house, as the minister has said, but, as was said at the time, an attempt to follow the practice which we have felt was so successful in the external affairs committee. However well the minister may be able to implement what he said today with books on the constitution, and there I do not propose to meet him, in my opinion his attitude is contrary to the spirit of what we were told when the committee was set up.
We have just heard it said that this committee is proving to be a failure. Apparently the reason it is proving to be a failure is that it is showing some independence. That is the only failure which my hon. friend opposite seems to find in it so far as I can see.
I want to add just one or two other things and to quote a few lines which I quoted when this matter was up before to indicate the experience which they have had in the old country, where they often have useful experiences. Speaking about this business of relegating things from the whole house to a small committee, Right Hon. Walter Elliot had this to say:
I am very jealous of any projects to take discussion away from the floor of the house. I am uneasy about sending too much to select committees of members specializing on particular matters, such as foreign affairs or colonial affairs or, for that matter, domestic affairs.

I suggest that we are running into exactly the kind of danger that he has suggested. I suggest that we are running into it because instead of a spirit of common sense and cooperation to give this thing a chance we have run into a technical desire to assert to the limit the rights of the executive. If that is what the executive wants, with the ranks of supporters they have they can achieve that end. However, I think it was a highly unrealistic picture which the minister gave us of a poor defenceless minister in this committee, where he had no power, where I think he said he was pushed out- metaphorically of course-and it is something that is hard for me to accept considering the large majority of government members on that committee.


Like every committee.


They have the power
which they do not hesitate to exercise and of which the minister could avail himself. Some people may think that what has happened in this committee will not happen in other committees. People may think that the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration has a kind of abandon in his attitude toward these matters which tempts him perhaps to go further than other ministers. But I do not believe that.
I believe that if you put a minister in a committee he is bound to dominate it. He is bound to indicate his views at the outset and if that is done other members of his party will not wish to step forward with their views and then perhaps find that they are entirely contrary to those of the minister. Therefore I say two things. First, that the minister will inevitably dominate the thing from the start, which to my mind is destroying the very basis of the thing. Incidentally if we must refer back to the external affairs committee I am assured that that does not happen there.
Furthermore, is it likely that once the minister has stated his position, as I have no doubt the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration would do with a considerable amount of clearness and frankness, other private members on the government side are going to have different views, or at any rate are going to express them? If I am correctly picturing the situation, does it not mean that we have this matter headed to complete failure?
Before I sit down may I say that even with my limited knowledge of constitutional matters I do think that the minister was getting very far from, shall I say his better self, when he undertook to say that this was an attempt to introduce the United States system. We know something about the United States system, and we also know something
Committees of the House about responsible government. Notwithstanding the minister's aspersions, we do know that when it comes to the test, either in the committee or elsewhere, the government has the power and the government will control. So as I take my seat I want to say that we in the opposition are entitled to believe that this experiment would be carried out with loyalty to the experiment, that it will not be strangled in constitutional red tape at the outset. I still hope that the committee may be given a chance.


Mr. Speaker, I find it perhaps somewhat unusual that members of this committee, which I along with many other hon. members feel have done an excellent job, have not yet spoken. It has remained for those who are not members of the committee to tell us how effectively it has or has not worked. Judging from the discussion in the committee it would seem to me that this question of the effectiveness of the committee has arisen because the committee has not been able to call witnesses and send for papers. I contend, as I did in the committee, that the committee on estimates is not a committee on immigration, a committee on northern affairs, on external affairs or on citizenship; it is a committee to deal with estimates.
If the committee is to be given the power to call such witnesses as any hon. member may wish to have before the committee, there is bound to be an attempt by many witnesses to show that they know more about running the department than the particular minister. I suggest that we would then be bogged down in a morass of evidence that would hamper the proceedings of the committee. Then, of necessity, there would have to be six or eight committees sitting to be able to examine even the five departments that have been referred. In committee I also said that I felt that certain members of the opposition were endeavouring to spread a smokescreen in order to cover up their dissatisfaction with the very creditable work that is being done by the committee. In that respect I believe they are having some success. I believe they are getting some assistance from certain sections of the press.


Order. The hon. member should address his remarks to the change that is contemplated in the committee. If he carries on criticizing or commenting upon the attitudes of the members of the committee, I am afraid he is getting away from the subject which is to be discussed.

Committees of the House


I bow to your ruling, Mr. Speaker. The hon. member for Kamloops (Mr. Fulton) has raised this matter as a question of privilege.


No; I moved an amendment.


He feels that the committee is unable to operate effectively because it is unable to send for witnesses. Certainly that is part of his statement. I think it can be said that while in its report the committee was not entirely unanimous, when the report was being decided upon a meeting was held in camera. I have searched the newspapers and have been unable to find any account of this final meeting at which the press were present but did find a report on matters discussed in camera.


Order. The hon. member has misapprehended what the situation is. In the first place, the hon. member for Kamloops did not raise his point by way of a question of privilege. A motion has been moved before the house suggesting certain changes in the personnel of the committee on estimates. As it was a debatable motion, the hon. member for Kamloops moved an amendment. He spoke to that amendment and he objected to one name being moved because the member whose name had been mentioned was a minister. He gave the reasons why, in his opinion, a member who is a minister should not be a member of the committee. If the hon. member wishes to argue against the reasons that have been given, it is quite in order for him to do so; but he cannot go beyond that.


Mr. Speaker, may I say that members of the official opposition and members of all of the opposition parties expressed the opinion that it was working effectively. With your permission I should like to read what was said in the final meeting when this report was being drafted. I am sure it would be quite in order for me to do so. The hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre had this to say-


Order. I cannot give to the hon. member permission to put on the record something which is not in order. I think he will have to wait for another occasion. For instance, if concurrence is moved in the report, then he can argue these things, provided the evidence has been reported. At this moment, however, all we are dealing with is the amendment to the effect that the motion be amended by deleting the words "that the name of Mr. Lesage be substituted for that of Mr. Lafontaine". If the hon. member supports the motion, he is entitled to give his reasons for doing so and, if he is opposed
fMr. Speaker.]
to the motion, he may give his reasons for his opposition. That is what the hon. member must do at this time.


I am opposed to the amendment on the basis that the committee would not operate as effectively and would not give as much satisfaction to all members in the house if it were to pass. While I am not at liberty to read the minutes of the meeting, I want to say that the three parties expressed the opinion that this committee was doing good work, that they had absolute cooperation from the minister and that they were getting all the information they desired from the officials. I might say that the hon. member for St. Paul's (Mr. Michener) said he was pleased with the information they had received and that he was happy that the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre was no longer pessimistic about the outcome or about the effectiveness of the committee.


Mr. Speaker, in order that my position may be known from the start may I say that I am wholeheartedly in support of the amendment which has been moved by the hon. member for Kamloops (Mr. Fulton). In listening carefully to what was said by the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration (Mr. Pickers-gill), I was rather amazed to listen to the camouflage which he, for a number of minutes, put around the key and the principle involved in the amendment. May I also say -because I always like to be honest-that I was not only amazed but was astounded-


Oh, oh.


-at the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) with regard to his approach to this matter.


Another split!


He himself was guilty of camouflage.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, I am extremely proud that we in the C.C.F. are democratic and can express our opinions. This is, without doubt, a serious question and it must be treated on that basis. Of course, we can all agree with all remarks that have been made by all who have now spoken to the effect that on the floor of this house we are all private members. That is a trite statement and it can be argued that it is a correct one. At the same time, however, we are only kidding ourselves if we do not realize that we live under cabinet government and that the rights of a private member, if he is not a member of the cabinet, on the floor of the House of Commons are greatly limited.

There are only certain things that we can do. One of the major rights of private members outside of the cabinet is their election to and participation in the work of a standing or special committee of the House of Commons. Under this amendment we are discussing the matter of one membership on a special committee of the House of Commons. I know that we can make a nice, easy and sweet story about all members having equal rights. Basically, sir, that matter can be explained away. But let us look at the situation.
Under a term of reference of this House of Commons the matter of estimates has been referred to an estimates committee. That committee is to examine into the expenditures of a department. That situation is as it should be. But, Mr. Speaker, within all your knowledge-if I may put it that way-of Canadian democracy and British democracy, do we believe or have we in the past believed that a department being investigated-and in being investigated, it is being judged-or the man in that department who is the only one responsibl