Mr. Jean-Fran?ois Pouliot (Temiscouaia):
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. Three French-language newspapers, Le Droit, he Soleil and La Presse, have printed a summary of a speech delivered by me in Toronto, last Tuesday, regarding the Canadian flag. Now one of the paragraphs is not accurate, and the same inaccuracy appears in all three papers and probably in other Canadian Press dispatches.
The member added that, if Canada cannot have any national flag, the red ensign should at least carry a larger maple leaf and be rid of its outdated emblems.
L'Action Catholique of March 24 published another dispatch which is even more inaccurate than the one I have just quoted.
Toronto-Mr. Jean-Frangois Pouliot, Liberal member for Temiscouata, asked for a "distinct and official" Canadian flag without the maple leaf. He told the Toronto junior board of trade that the union jack could fly next to this new national flag, but that it should not eclipse it.
The reports published by the Toronto Telegram and the Ottawa Journal were far more accurate. Briefly, here is what I said: (Text):
I do not want the union flag to be minimized as a fraction of the flag. If we are to have it, let us have it full-size, but let us also have a truly Canadian flag. Both could be hoisted together.
Order.


I continue:
Is it not the time to have a distinctive and official Canadian flag bearing only one emblem, a large maple leaf, which will tell all the other nations of the world that Canada is the greatest of them all?
(Translation):


I should not want the intervention of the hon. member to create a precedent and, if I did not call him to order before, it was because I had doubts as to his right to raise the question of privilege in this house for the purpose of correcting newspaper reports of a speech he made outside the house. The hon. member, being an expert in procedural matters, may not share
my doubts on this point; at any rate, I should like to make these remarks in order that this case be not considered as a precedent. (Text):


First report of special committee on veterans affairs.-Mr. Tucker.
Bill No. 281, to incorporate St. Mary's River Bridge Company.-Mr. Nixon.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the representations made to the United States Senate finance committee as to the views of the administration in relation to the quantitative restrictions on the imports of crude oil from Canada and elsewhere, may I ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce if the Canadian government will make it abundantly clear to the United States administration that the proposal to have these restrictions enforced by individual producers is no more acceptable than is the proposal to have the restrictions imposed by the government and that if this type of proposal is persevered in it is likely to disturb very seriously Canadian confidence in our trading relations with the United States?


Mr. Speaker, the proposal of the administration antedates the legislation that was introduced in the United States congress. Both proposals were known to this government when our protest was filed and I think the subject matter of our protest deals adequately with both proposals.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, with reference to the question asked on March 21 by the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Hahn) who inquired what the income tax appeal

Inquiries of the Ministry board meant by the term "psychological discounts" when reviewing the case of a Winnipeg lumber firm, I would state that evidently he has reference to a decision of the income tax appeal board in the case of McDonald-Dure Lumber Co. Ltd. v. Minister of National Revenue.
This company in selling lumber to its customers allowed a discount, presumably for prompt payment. In its income tax returns the company deducted the amount of the discounts from its accounts receivable. The assessor considered that the discount was only a contingent reserve and disallowed the deduction claimed. At the hearing the company established that the discount was always given the customer even if payment was late and the board therefore found that it was not a contingent reserve. Mr. Fordham, the member of the board who rendered the decision, made the statement that "the amount of the discount was added to an account simply for the psychological effect on the customer who was led to believe that by paying his account promptly his bill would become 10 per cent less". The term "psychological discounts" was apparently used by a newspaper in reporting this judgment.
It might be explained that in assessing taxpayers on an accrual basis all sales made in the year are included in income-less a reasonable reserve for bad debts-whether the customer pays or not. Had these discounts been established to be contingent only they would not be allowed as a deduction until the account was paid and the discount in fact established.


On the orders of the day:
['I hope that can be arranged to the satisfaction of all hon. members.']
Mr. Speaker, may I ask if the Acting Postmaster General can inform the house what steps are proposed to alleviate the considerable inconvenience caused departmental employees in Montreal and Ottawa by the department's non-compliance with certain provisions of the Income Tax Act.


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of any of the facts alleged in this so-called question but I will have inquiries made.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the understanding, which appears to have been


quite clear in the minds of hon. members of this house, that the Prime Minister would be making a further statement during the debate on external affairs in regard to the commonwealth conference, and in view of the desire of some of us to take part in that discussion, may I ask the Prime Minister if it is his intention to do so and when we may expect the resumption of the debate we were engaged in yesterday?


Mr. Speaker, I gave no undertaking about a further statement in connection with the prime ministers' conference. I said that there would be an opportunity to discuss that conference when the debate on external affairs was taking place and the hon. member for Prince Albert (Mr. Diefenbaker) did discuss it yesterday during the course of his remarks.
Replying to the second part of the question, there are many matters that we are anxious to have dealt with by the house. My colleague who has been leading the house has been discussing with the representatives of the other parties the most convenient arrangements that can be made for that purpose. I am not in a position to make any statement as to when it will be possible to dispose of the various matters.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister if it will not be possible to fix a definite date so that in regard to a subject which is of such paramount concern and which was dealt with by only a very few members yesterday we might have a definite indication as to when it will be coming up so that appropriate arrangements may be made by those hon. members who may wish to participate in the debate.


I hope that can be arranged to the satisfaction of all hon. members.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In view of what is already being done in the three western provinces and in view of Ontario's offer to match any federal aid boost to old age pensioners, will the government consider increasing the amount of the pensions paid under the Old Age Assistance Act, the Old Age Security Act and the Blind Persons Act?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend did not give me notice of his intention to ask this question, but after listening to him I think it is quite apparent that the hon. member has had that question replied to by implication so many times that there is no need for any further comment now.


The silent treatment.


How many times can you say "no"?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the parliamentary assistant to the Postmaster General. Following the question which I addressed to him on February 10 concerning the improvement of the mail service to the district of Seven Islands and certain localities to the east of Seven Islands, is he in a position to let me know if the department has now reached a decision?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank my hon. friend for having given me notice of his question. In answer I may say that the department has made arrangements for the Seven Islands district to be served six times per week in the summer instead of four times, and for certain localities east of Seven Islands to be served twice weekly instead of once. The improvement of the winter service is still under consideration.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.


Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $515,411,790.67, being one-sixth of the amount of each of the items to be voted, as set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1956, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament; and in addition thereto, a sum not exceeding $137,500, being one-half of the amount of item 437, a sum not exceeding $439,942, being one-sixth of the amount of items 193, 196, 200, 201, and a sum not exceeding $1,975,296.08, being one-twelfth of the amount of items 18, 37, 439, 440, of the said estimates be granted to Her Majesty on account of the fiscal year ending March 31, 1956.
He said: Mr. Speaker, this is the annual request for interim supply which has always been granted after full consideration by the
Interim Supply
committee. The custom has been to ask that two months' supply be granted on all the items which are to be included in the estimates, and that custom is being followed this year.
In addition, there are several other items in which more expenditure is made in that two months' period than in the latter part of the year, and as a consequence we are asking for a sum additional to the one-sixth of those items. They are set out in the resolution and they refer particularly to the Canadian international trade fair, as that expenditure will be made almost immediately. They also refer to the unemployment insurance commission, with respect to certain items which have to be paid at this time of the year; and they refer to the Senate and the House of Commons, the major portion of the cost of these items coming at this time of the year. In agriculture they refer to experimental farm services and other items; in trade and commerce, to electricity and gas inspection services, weights and measures, etc. Therefore the total amount being requested is as set out in the resolution.
There is no item which is being released to a greater extent than two-thirds, and in this case I wish to give the assurance which is given on every occasion when this bill is passed concerning the right and privilege of hon. members to criticize, or in fact to refuse supply at a future date. I give the necessary undertaking.


I should like to ask the minister whether his undertaking is given to the actual members now sitting in this house, or merely to members of parliament from time to time; because a question arose about that point in 1949, when the minister took the position that in view of the pending election it was not necessary that the members sitting in the house at that time be the members for whom the undertaking was eventually carried out.
This question has always been a little hazy in my mind, and I rise now because I thought in view of the fact that we have a new Minister of Finance it would be an excellent time to have the point fully clarified.


I am not familiar with what the future might hold, of course, but it seems to me it is almost a physical impossibility to have an election in the period of time covered by this request; therefore I think it is unlikely.


If the minister will look back to 1949 he will find how it is possible.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in.

Interim Supply


that the house go into committee of ways and means.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.


Resolved, that towards making good the supply granted to Her Majesty on account of certain expenses of the public service for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1956, the following sums be granted out of the consolidated revenue fund of Canada, namely:
1.	The sum of $515,411,790.67, being one-sixth of the amount of each of the items set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1956;
2.	The sum of $137,500, being one-half of the amount of item 437 of the said estimates;
3.	The sum of $439,942, being one-sixth of the amount of items 193, 196, 200, 201 of the said estimates; and
4.	The sum of $1,975,296.08, being one-twelfth of the amount of items 18, 37, 439, 440 of the said estimates; as set forth in the resolution concurred in this day in the committee of supply.
Resolution reported, read the second time and concurred in.
Mr. Harris thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 284, for granting to Her Majesty certain sums of money for the public service of the financial year ending the 31st March, 1956.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first and second times, and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.
Clauses 1 to 3 inclusive agreed to.
On clause 4-$439,492 granted for 1955-56.
I wish to say something regarding schedule B which is referred to in clause 4. I am in your hands, sir, as to whether I should do it now or wait until you call the schedule.


Schedule B will be called in due course.


Clause agreed to.
Clauses 5 to 7 inclusive agreed to.
Schedule A agreed to.
On schedule B-Labour and legislation.
Mr. Chairman, according to schedule B it would seem that in addition to the two months which is being asked for with respect to all the items in the main estimates, an additional two months is also [Mr. Macdonnell.l
being requested with respect to items 193, 196, 200 and 201. I am particularly interested in item 193, which reads:
To provide for the transfer of labour, to and from places where employment is available and expenses incidental thereto, in accordance with regulations of the governor in council.
I assume that the reason the government is now asking for a total of four months out of the twelve in this item is as a result of the unemployment situation at the present time. What concerns me is this, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that we know that the unemployment situation this year is worse than it was last year, according to the main estimates the total amount to be asked for this year for this purpose is only half what was asked for last year. I am looking at page 34 of the main estimates where it is noted that $200,000 was voted for this purpose last year. But only $100,000 is being asked for this same purpose this year. If it is intended to expend four-twelfths of the year's amount under this item in the next little while, what will happen if further money is needed for this purpose.


The hon. member knows
quite well what will happen. We will have a supplementary estimate next year.


Is it possible to get from anyone on the government side a statement as to what is happening right now under this item, how much is being spent week by week or month by month, or how many people are being assisted to move from one place to another in order to obtain work?


Not at this moment. I will get the information and give my hon. friend what I have.


Mr. Chairman, may I, by consent, ask the minister a question with regard to clause 6, the power to borrow, which was not apparently in the act last year?


I beg the hon. member's pardon?


I am asking with regard to paragraph 6 or clause 6, the power to raise a loan.


The borrowing power was contained last year in the final appropriation bill. This year, since we have almost reached the limit of that power, we thought it would be appropriate to have a section here giving us power for this coming fiscal year to borrow the same amount as was borrowed last year. I am told that the borrowing authority is down to about $50 million at the moment. This bill will provide for the same

borrowing authority that would normally be asked for and obtained in, say, May or June.


Schedule agreed to.
Schedule C agreed to.
Preamble agreed to.
Title agreed to.
Bill reported.
By leave, shall this bill be read a third time now?


By leave.


the third reading of the bill.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Production service-
Health of animals-
552. To provide for payment of compensation to owners of animals or poultry affected with diseases coming under the Animal Contagious Diseases Act, which have died or have been slaughtered in circumstances not covered by the above act and regulations made thereunder, and to provide for payment to owners for loss of cattle during treatments for immunization against hemorrhagic septicaemia, all as detailed in the estimates, $7,725.


Is the Minister of Agriculture going to be here to answer these questions, Mr. Chairman?


No.


Can the minister advise me about the first item amounting to $7,725? I am not criticizing it. I am just curious as to how and when they started this practice of paying this money out for animals that died, I presume, from the time they are immunized at Winnipeg until they arrive at Toronto or probably at the farm. I wonder whether the minister will explain that point.


As I think my hon. friend knows, last year it was decided to experiment with respect to certain diseases that overtake animals and also with respect to the treatment to be given especially with regard to those animals that are shipped from the west to the east. The result was that, in the course of carrying out this experiment, certain cattle died. The items set out here totalling $6,090 are the intended payments to the farmers who would ordinarily stand to lose. I notice that most of them or, in fact, all of them, are in the east and a large number of them are in western Ontario.
Sup p ly-A griculture


That is to be taken for granted, Mr. Chairman, because they are all feeder cattle coming in from the west to western Ontario.


That is right.


I do not think they have much trouble with anything else.


No.


They are immunized at Winnipeg.


I should like to ask the minister this question. Do I understand that these are cattle that have been treated for septicaemia and thereafter have died?


Yes.


If these cattle were treated prior to shipment, it seems most unusual, does it not, that they should die? That is the regular procedure in the shipping of cattle, according to my information and knowledge of the shipping of cattle. We generally have little loss if the cattle are immunized for septicaemia prior to shipment. This would seem to me to be a heavy loss if they were properly immunized prior to shipment. I wonder whether there is any further explanation with regard to that matter.


No. I do not think any further explanation can be made, Mr. Chairman. The fact of the matter is just what I said before. This was an experimental treatment of animals. As a result, certain animals died; and the department feels that they ought to bear the loss rather than the owners who agreed to submit their cattle to this experiment.


I wonder just why the department undertook this experiment. In respect of cattle going to the ordinary feeder channels through the Winnipeg market, the farmer undertakes his own responsibility. Is this going to be a procedure that is extended to all farmers shipping feeder cattle or is it merely with respect to those coming to eastern Canada?


I presume that from time to time the Department of Agriculture will carry out these experiments and tests under the conditions that they think would be most appropriate. It might be the shipment of feeder -cattle one year; it might be some other form another year.


I should like to ask the minister one question with regard to the
2,380

Supply-Agriculture
nature of the compensation. For instance, a number of farmers bring to my attention the fact that where their cattle have been destroyed or at least have been found to be unfit for human consumption by reason of those animals suffering from lockjaw, there is no compensation. There have been quite a number of cases recently in which farmers have taken their cattle to the packers, where it has been found that they were suffering from lockjaw and claim for compensation was denied. Why is there that restriction?


I am afraid I cannot answer that question. I am devoting my attention only to those items that we are recommending for payment. Discussion on whether these animals ought to be paid for, I would suggest, could be had on the estimates for the coming year.


I should like to ask the minister how many cattle were treated for septicaemia under this program and how many were in different shipments? I should also like to know the total shipments which were made, those shipments which were treated and those which were not treated; and also in those shipments which were not treated, how many died. I should like to have that information if any record is made of those shipments.


The total number of animals which were subjected to the test ran to 9,400. Of those, we are paying for 73.


I do not know whether or not the minister has this information, but on what basis is this compensation paid? Is it so much a head, so much a hundredweight or according to whether the animals were purebred or commercial animals?


I notice that the payments vary from a low of $77 in one case up to a total of $1,100 in another, so I take it that it was on the basis of the value of the animals.


The $1,100 would be for how many?


Eleven animals.


Perhaps I did not make myself completely clear. What I wanted to know was how many cattle that were treated died and how many that were not treated died. I take it we are trying to determine the effect of this experiment and I should like to know how successful it was.


As I understood it, my hon. friend asked how many were subjected to the treatment and how many died. I gave
	!
those figures, 9,400 and 73. What is the other figure he is asking for?


The
number of cattle that were untreated which died. Then I would have a comparison.


I am sorry, but I cannot hear.


How
many were shipped which were not treated and which died of septicaemia?


The figures I have relate only to those which were treated. I have no information as to the numbers that were not treated because we are not concerned with those.


Then I take it we cannot have the information which would enable us to decide whether or not the experiment was successful. It could very well be that there were few losses among those which were not treated. In that case the experiment would not be successful. If the minister does not have the information, I suppose we will have to leave it at that. I should also like to know something with respect to a rather new disease, and I think it would come under this item. I want to inquire about what is termed the black disease which is a type of blackleg or septicaemia. The symptoms are rather difficult to diagnose. Has the department made any provision to investigate that disease which is occurring in western Canada, particularly in Saskatchewan?


My answer again must be what it was to the hon. member for Prince Albert. We are concerned here with the expenditure of money for certain purposes, and if the hon. member has other questions in mind he can ask them on the main estimates.


The minister has suggested that this is an experiment and has said that 9,400 animals were tested. As I understand it, they are given an injection at Winnipeg to ward off hemorrhagic septicaemia. Is it a case of some of the animals having died after the injection? What happened to them? Where did it happen? Did it happen in the railway yards, on the trains coming east or after they arrived here? Under what circumstances were the animals slaughtered?


The animals died at various
times. Some of them arrived in the east and were treated a second time and then died on the farm. Others died in transit. Of the 9,400, approximately 500 showed some signs of this disease and 73 died at one time or another.


I think this is rather important from the point of view of the livestock producers. Do I understand that cattle which were healthy were treated with the vaccine for hemorrhagic septicaemia and then either en route or after arriving at their destination 73 of them died?


That is right.


That is what he said.


Item agreed to.
Terminal services-
554. Freight assistance on western feed grains- further amount required, $2,000,000.
This item brings the amount for freight assistance up to $19,500,000, I believe, by adding the $2 million to the original vote. I presume this amount is necessary because it has been decided to do away with the reduction in freight assistance announced earlier this session and restore the assistance paid on feed grains to British Columbia. If that is so, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the minister for having corrected the mistake made earlier this session. Of course, if it is not I would ask the minister to explain exactly what this amount is required for.


I should like to be the recipient of the good wishes of the hon. member but I am afraid I cannot be. This is in fact another $2 million that will be needed for the payment of feed grain subsidies in the year ending next week. It merely indicates that the original vote of $17 million was not sufficient for that purpose and that there has been a much greater demand on the vote than has been the case in former years. This item is for the purpose of providing the extra money we expect to spend before the books are closed for this year.


Like the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich, my constituency is very interested in the question of freight assistance on western feed grains. Since the government announced its change of policy I have been flooded with letters from poultry producers, dairymen, farmers' institutes and other agricultural organizations all expressing dismay at the government's change of policy and urging reconsideration. They have asked me to try to melt the minister's heart. It is a very serious matter for many of the poultry producers and dairymen in my constituency particularly because they live under somewhat unusual circumstances. They do not enjoy the good transportation and other facilities that exist in many places on the prairies.
Supply-Agriculture
One letter I received from the secretary of the Fauquier farmers' institute brings to my attention particularly what the loss of the $5 a ton means to the producers of the Arrow lakes area. The secretary advises me that egg prices have been at the lowest level for some years, an average of 16 cents per dozen lower than 1953. These two conditions are province-wide and that is the reason for the province-wide complaint from British Columbia with respect to the reduction in freight assistance. In the district I represent there are certain other difficulties that are more or less local. As a result of the loss of the C.P.R. steamship service on the Arrow lakes, it costs the farmers of that area $5 a ton more to move their grain by means of the present service than it did last year. In addition, certain other difficulties have arisen because of the change in service.
I am not going to delay the committee except to say that this is a serious situation for many dairymen and poultry producers in my constituency and will have serious effects on them in making a satisfactory livelihood. Because of the pioneer conditions under which some of them live it will mean complete bankruptcy. Therefore I do ask the minister to bring my remarks to the attention of the Minister of Agriculture to see if something cannot be done to restore at least partially the assistance which has been so helpful to these pioneer producers in the years past.


Earlier in the year I spoke at some length on the question of freight assistance. I was hoping, as did the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich, that the minister had prevailed upon the Minister of Agriculture to let him include $2 million for freight assistance on feed grain for the people of the west and British Columbia. I seriously hope that the Minister of Agriculture will look into this whole question to see if we cannot find some way of assisting these agricultural people in British Columbia. I can only repeat what I said before in respect to the need, and the fact that the prices received by the farmers are low while the cost of feed is high, making it practically impossible for these people to remain in business in the lower mainland area.
I know the minister is aware of the situation, and I know only too well that if he had the money available he would say, "I see no better place in Canada to put it than in British Columbia". I am looking forward to the time when he can make some money available to assist us in the way we believe we should be assisted.


The item in the estimates last year was $17 million, and that amount was

Supply-Agriculture
spent. This addition of $2 million would bring the amount up to $19 million, yet the estimate for this year has been reduced to $15,500,000. Does the minister suggest that is the amount to be dropped, $3 [DOT] 5 million for this coming year? Why the huge drop in this freight assistance?


I am sure that is a good question to ask on the main estimates when the item of $15,500,000 is before the committee.


I hesitate to speak on this item, yet I have had some views on it for quite a few years and 1 should like to lay them before the minister today. I want to emphasize that they are only my own views. The hon. member for Kootenay West expressed very ably a moment ago the views of this party.
This item of $2 million is going to mean that in the current fiscal year the government will have paid out $19 million on feed grain subsidies. This will bring the total amount which the taxpayer has been assessed for this subsidy, since its inception, to $222 million. Now, that is a good deal of money. I hope before this item passes the Minister of Finance will express an opinion as to whether or not it is actually of great value to the farmer. I ask the house to remember for a moment the original purpose of this particular legislation. Hon. members will recall that it was introduced during the war years to encourage farmers to grow more hogs and beef, in order to make meat available to Great Britain at a time when she could not get enough meat from Holland, Denmark and her other customary sources of supply.
I feel that the original purpose of the legislation has long since been achieved. Once you get a subsidy on the books, it is very difficult to remove it. I know there would be howls of anguish if it were removed. Nevertheless I should like the minister to state whether or not some emergency still exists which would justify this subsidy. The hon. member for Kootenay West has said that certain chicken farmers in his riding might gc bankrupt if the subsidy were removed. If that is the case, of course it should be taken into consideration. Yet I am still not convinced in my own mind that this huge expenditure is a sound one. I have never been able to find evidence to prove that the payment of this subsidy meant western farmers were better off. Some people may argue that we could not sell our feed grains in British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec if we did not have the subsidy. If anyone can prove such a fact, I might have to change my opinion. But to date I have found no such evidence.
As a matter of fact, I feel that if the subsidy were not there the prairie farmer would

be much more likely to feed his grain on the farm in the west, and might in the long run be better off for having done that. If we must have a subsidy on feed grain to British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec, why do we not also have some kind of subsidy on the prairies? Actually, this measure is discriminatory against the prairies. If a Saskatchewan farmer in the south is shipping feed grain to the north where there might happen to be a shortage, there is no subsidy on that shipment at all. Actually, the freight rate is higher than it would be on a shipment all the way down to eastern Canada. I am only speaking for myself, but I do find myself most unenthusiastic about this expenditure. I am not convinced it is doing anyone very much good, except some of the feed dealers.


I just wanted to say a few words in reply to what the hon. member has said. He spoke about assistance to Ontario and Quebec, but I might point out to him that it is of great assistance to the dairy farmer and meat producer in the maritime provinces. As a matter of fact, Mr. Chairman, I do not know iust what the maritime farmers would do if it were not for this freight assistance on feed grain.


Fold up.


They would not fold up altogether, but they would come close to it, as the hon. member for Cape Breton South has said. The hon. member mentioned subsidies to the maritime provinces, Ontario and Quebec but I should like to ask him about the Prairie Farm Assistance Act. What help do the maritime provinces get from the Prairie Farm Assistance Act? We have never objected to it. If you make an estimate of what has been paid under that legislation, you will find it runs into $100 million or $150 million.


It is $75 million since the act was passed.


Yes, and it is growing all the time.


Do the maritimes not get something for the marshlands?


We get a few million dollars, but there is no comparison between the two. The marshland payments have been compared a good many times in this house with the Prairie Farm Assistance Act. There is another act, the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act, under which many millions of dollars collected from the public all across Canada have been contributed to the west. I am indeed astonished that the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre would speak in this house about subsidies going to Ontario, Quebec and

the maritime provinces when there is all this money being paid to western Canada, without any complaint coming from the people in these other areas.


The hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre asked a question and the hon. member for Royal has answered it, but I feel I should answer it also even if the Minister of Finance does not. The Minister of Finance was down in my constituency this summer, but I only saw him for a split second as he was driving through the Annapolis valley. He could very easily have answered the question from what he saw in that one constituency. The expenditures which have been made under this item throughout the years would be justified by conditions existing in that constituency. I am not particularly favourable to the payment of subsidies, and I am not discussing the relative merits of each of these expenditures, but I can say without fear of contradiction that the payment of this subsidy brings a more direct return to people generally than any other type of expenditure that could be made.
As a result of these payments the dairy industry and other forms of the livestock industry generally, as well as the poultry industry, are able to continue. My county of Kings, Nova Scotia, is now the largest poultry producer in Canada. This has come about with developments during wartime and since.


And the Newfoundland market.


All these factors enter into that situation, but it could not exist if it were not for this freight rate subsidy, because of course the cost of moving feed grain all the way across the country to the eastern border is quite large. I did not intend to mention this item at all, but I could not sit here and let someone challenge it. I am satisfied that some items should be questioned more than others, and some are more valuable than others; but I am satisfied that there is no item more valuable than this one in the whole group of supplementary estimates.


When the minister replies to the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre, I hope he will point out to him that the prairie farmers enjoy the farmer-to-farmer benefit in the sale of their feed grain. When one prairie former is anxious to unload a lot of his grade 5 wheat he just sells it to his neighbour, and they do not have to go through the wheat board. But when the British Columbia farmer has to buy his wheat it has to go through the wheat board and he has to pay the premium thereon. I hope
Supply-Agriculture
the minister will point out to the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre that there would be no chickens and no turkeys on the prairies if it were not for the early-hatching eggs which come from British Columbia.


It is much easier to justify this subsidy than the gold mining subsidy. It is national in scope and very necessary in the part of the country in which I live, particularly in relation to the poultry farmer. Last year, quite a few people came to see me on this particular question of feed grains. Despite the subsidy, feed grains have gone up in price by $5 a ton pretty well all across the country. In the last year the price of eggs has gone down in the maritime provinces. If they are to continue their operations on the present basis, then they need this subsidy. If it were not for this subsidy there is no doubt as to what would happen in Kings county in regard to poultry, and all through the maritime provinces. It is a very lucrative industry there and has been built up largely because of this subsidy. I am not going to argue it; I know the minister is taking the right position on it and he should continue it.
I would point out to the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre that this subsidy is a great help in the marketing of feed grains in the part of the country from which he comes. In many sections of the country where these feed grains are needed we have to drag them thousands of miles across the country because we cannot grow feed grains and other grains in many parts of Canada. They do not grow there. They have to be obtained from the United States on the eastern seaboard or from Saskatchewan and Manitoba and from other parts of the country that sell feed grains. Without this subsidy I am reasonably certain that we would not be taking feed grains from western Canada all the way across the country because we can get them much closer on the eastern seaboard. This is one subsidy that no hon. member who has any understanding of what it means and what it has meant would suggest for a moment should be discontinued. It is a freight rate subsidy. That kind of subsidy is necessary if we are to market our own goods provincially.


I am sorry the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre brought up this question today. I can assure him that if we did not have this freight rate subsidy the western farmer would not have a very big market for his feed grain. I can also assure him that if they do not keep this subsidy the feeders in the east will be buying a great deal less of it. It is a very important part

Supply-Agriculture
of government expenditure. If this subsidy is cut off-it has been reduced for next year- it will make a terrific difference in the number of pounds of feed grain sent down east, because the Ontario farmers are now in a position where they are working very close to the line. A few cents difference on a hundred pounds of grain would just make the difference between profit and loss.


I did
not intend to speak on this item. However, my good friend the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre apparently is more or less speaking as an authority. I realize that, like me, he has gone into the production of Here-fords and the raising of purebred cattle. I am not sure that he is familiar with all aspects of agriculture. I am very happy that at least on two occasions in his remarks he indicated he was speaking for himself and himself alone. I farm in that part of Saskatchewan whence he comes. I take the view, sir, as do most members of this party, that we are interested in agriculture from coast to coast. It may well be that in the economic society which we in this party visualize there might not be the necessity for some of those subventions and assistance. However, under the prevailing conditions I go along with the hon. members from the maritimes and from the coastal province who have indicated that if this freight assistance were not paid, then those people would be in a very difficult position indeed. Therefore, I support it.
Since we are talking about subsidies, I think we are taking a very short point of view when we are prepared to go along with the subsidization of gold mining, when we take it from one hole in Canada and put it in another hole in Kentucky and flood and protect it down there where it does nobody any good, if we object to subsidies on feed grains. Here we are talking about subsidizing feed grains for the little farmers, the people in the poultry industry who are making a living out of it. Surely, no one in this house would object to that idea.
I regret very much that the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre does not agree with the principle which has been endorsed by the members of this group, namely, that we are interested in those engaged in agricultural production from coast to coast. I fully realize that during the war the freight assistance paid to Ontario hog producers, as an example, enabled those producers to produce their bacon hogs and receive at least $6 more for their finished hog than we received in the west. We did not mind that. We feel that every phase of Canadian agriculture in every province in Canada should get a square deal. I am very sorry that the
IM r Charlton 1
government saw fit to cut down the subsidy by $5 a ton this year. I wish they had kept the subvention on certain grains going to different parts of Canada rather than to decrease it, as they have done.


I had no intention of taking part in this debate until I heard the socialists introduce the topic of cutting off subsidies for Canadians. We have the wealthy farmer from Saskatchewan saying that his western farmers are no better off with this subsidy, and we find the Tories criticizing his remarks very much. Then the hon. member for Moose Mountain rises in his place and suggests there should be no subsidy on gold mining. Let me tell my hon. friend


I did
not say that. I said that if hon. members were prepared to support gold mining subsidies, then surely they should not be reticent about supporting such assistance as this.


I do not accept the correction, for he went on to say that it did no good. Let me tell him this. One dollar spent on the gold subsidy employs more men than money in any other subsidy.


Order.


It employs more men than
any other subsidy paid by this house.


Order. May I remind the hon. member that we are discussing agriculture, not gold mining.


I shall return to the subject of grain subsidies. This is one of the few subsidies that benefit farmers who raise livestock in the province of Ontario. There are not many farmers in Ontario who would criticize our government for continuing to pay the subsidy that it was wise enough to put on a few years ago, particularly when the type of agriculture that it benefits is not nearly as lucrative as the type of agriculture that is carried on in the western provinces.


Mr. Chairman, the thing that is wrong with this item and with the government's policy in relation to subsidies on feed grains is not that the subsidy is too high but that the government is out to reduce the subsidy and if the present trend continues I am afraid it is out to get rid of it entirely. Along with other hon. members, I believe that the subsidy on feed grains is essential to the welfare of the agricultural industry in Canada from one end of the country to the other. I do not believe with anyone that this subsidy is peculiarly favourable to

the people who are raising poultry or livestock, but rather that it results in widespread benefits to Canada as a whole.
Surely everyone will agree that one of the factors that must be considered when you quote a price for grain is the cost of freight from where it is produced to where it is finally consumed. One of the economic impediments to the general Canadian welfare and the welfare of the agricultural industry is the tremendous freight cost and this subsidy results to the benefit of the Canadian people. As a freight subsidy it is just as important as the $7 million subsidy toward the maintenance of trackage between Sudbury and the head of the lakes.
As a grain producer and as someone who believes that he knows something about the economics of agriculture I believe that when you pay a subsidy on grain, no matter who may receive the cheque, the effect is not only, as it is, to lower the cost of feed grain to the people who are raising poultry and livestock, but it also increases the return to the people who are producing. If you removed the freight cost entirely you would automatically decrease the cost of grain to the feeder and increase the price to the producer. This may not be completely correct when you are dealing with a commodity the price of which is set by international trade factors, but almost all the feed grains produced in Canada are consumed in Canada and I believe that this subsidy helps the whole agricultural industry.
As I said, the thing wrong with it is the fact that apparently the government is out to get rid of this subsidy as quickly as it can.


Mr. Chairman, I have always been one who felt that we should be thankful for small mercies. Some time ago when this matter was under discussion and the announcement was made that there was to be a drastic reduction in the assistance on feed grain freight rates I raised opposition on behalf of those engaged in the poultry and hog raising industries in the Fraser valley. At that time I asked the government to reconsider the matter and try to do something to extend the assistance.
We all know that the regulations have been carried out as was stated. Since that time I have had a number of protests and communications with respect to the matter. Without doubt it is imposing a great hardship upon farmers in British Columbia because of the present depressed prices for farm products. They are facing a difficult situation at the present time. We are glad that the government has seen fit to retain at
Supply-Agriculture
least a part of the assistance but we do hope that no consideration will be given at any time in the near future to the complete elimination of this assistance. On the other hand, we would like it raised to its previous level.


Mr. Chairman, are we discussing these estimates or next year's estimates? All of this talk about a reduction in the subsidy for next year is entirely out of order. There is only one question here: are we going to vote $2 million that we have spent up to August 1 last with reference to this freight assistance?


Mr. Chairman, I should like to direct the attention of the Minister of Finance to the fact that every party in the house supports the idea of an increased subsidy on feed grains. While the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre said that he was speaking for himself, I would request that he make a point of suggesting to the Minister of Agriculture that an investigation committee be set up to inquire into the whole problem of the price of feed grain. Apparently the facts are such that there is such a large spread in prices that it makes it practically impossible for the poultry and cattle industries to continue in existence. I would earnestly suggest that the minister consider this point and provide a few million dollars in a later estimate to cover an investigation of problems affecting feed grains and the price spreads existing in western Canada today.


Mr. Chairman, like nearly everybody else, I did not intend to speak on this item and the only reason I am doing so now is to reply to what the Minister of National Revenue just said. He seems to indicate that all we are doing here is to act as a set of rubber stamps to authorize money which has been overspent by the government and which they now have to come and ask us to grant them at the last moment. The Minister of Finance shakes his head but he can correct me later.
I suggest that it is eminently proper that we should talk about the desirability of spending this money. As I understand it, we are authorizing an additional amount to take care of something unexpected which the government did not accurately forecast. I would have thought that if ever there was a time when the discussions should be wide open it would be now. I am sorry that I cannot contribute anything to the merits of the matter.


I thank hon. members for what has been said. I cannot quite agree with the hon. member for Greenwood because after all this is merely to provide extra money for a principle which has been adopted already

Supply-Agriculture
and which is going to be carried out. This money is needed because a great many bills are coming in now, a greater number than was expected. This is not because of any imperfect forecast, although one cannot be accurate in these things, but because there have been much greater shipments of feed grain to the east during the past season than were expected.
Under these circumstances, and having in mind all that has been said, I am sure that the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre will reconsider what he has said and realize that while there might have been originally some opposition, it seems to be apparent that there is widespread support for the theory that the subsidy is doing som