What total amount has the federal government
(a)	guaranteed: (b) advanced, to date, (1) with respect to each province of Canada; (ii) to the city of Montreal; (iii) to the city of Toronto, under the National Housing Act?
(Translation) :


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member asked me if he could have this question dropped from the order paper because he intends to submit it later with a few changes.
(Text):


Question dropped.


1.	What are diversion charges?
2.	How much wheat was shipped through the port of Churchill, during the last season of navigation?
3.	On how much of it were diversion charges paid?
4.	What was the amount of the diversion charge per bushel?
5.	What was the total amount of the charges paid in the above period on Churchill-shipped wheat?
6.	To what grain companies were the charges paid?
7.	What service did such companies render for such payment?


1.	A diversion charge is a charge assessed by an elevator company when grain shipped from one of its country elevators is diverted away from that company's terminal elevator to another destination. Diversion charges are a long established practice in the western grain trade. Diversion charges originate from the fact that elevator companies consider their country and terminal elevators, as an entity; terminal revenues being an important factor in determining the basis upon which country elevators can be operated. Therefore, the trade practice has developed that when a company losses terminal handling on grain through the diversion of a country elevator shipment to a destination other than a company's terminal, a diversion charge is made in lieu of terminal earnings.
Diversions of grain are necessary if mills or other processors located west of the lakehead are to receive their grain requirements.
Most diversion charges are paid by mills, processors, etc., directly to elevator companies on the basis of rates negotiated between them. The Canadian wheat board is only involved in diversion charges in respect to:
(a)	Grain diverted to interior terminal elevators.
(b)	Grain diverted to Churchill.
(c)	Grain diverted to Prince Rupert.
These diversion charges are a matter of
negotiation between the board and the handling companies and form part of the over-all handling agreement between the board and the handling companies.
2.	12,484,893-4 bushels (export shipments).
3.	Diversion charges were paid on all wheat shipped from country stations to Churchill for prompt export or storage.
4.	1J cents per bushel.
5.	$185,490.21. (Consists of diversion charges on wheat shipped to Churchill during the 1954 navigation season and on wheat subsequently shipped to Churchill to refill the elevator.)
6.	To all elevator companies shipping wheat to Churchill for account of the Canadian wheat board. It is not the policy of the board to disclose the competitive position of various elevator companies in their capacity as agents of the board.
7.	See answer to No. 1.


1.	Has the Department of Public Works a lease on the building used as a post office in Whalley, British Columbia?
2.	If so, when was the present lease signed, and when does it expire?
3.	Who were the principal owners of the building at the time of signing the original lease, and what was the occupation of each?
4.	Has there been any change in ownership since the time of signing the original lease? If so, who are the present owners?
5.	How many square feet of floor space does the building contain?
6.	(a) What is the total annual rent paid for the said building?
(b)	What is the assessed value of the building at the present time?
(c)	What was the assessed value of the building
at time originally leased?	'
7.	At the time of renting the building who appraised its rental valuation?
8.	Was the building constructed according to government specifications? If so, what is the description?

Questions
9.	How much was spent by the Department oi Public Works for repairs and maintenance of this building in each year since the lease was signed?


1.	Yes.
2.	Present lease covers a period from May 1, 1951, and expires on April 30, 1958.
3.	Mr. Thomas Binnie, real estate agent.
4.	Not to knowledge of the Department of Public Works.
5.	Building contains 5,040 sq. ft. with a loading platform of 840 sq. ft.
6.	(a) $5,964; (b) $20,340; (c) $16,600.
7.	The district architect of the Department of Public Works.
8.	(a) Building contracted to owners specifications and with the approval of the Department of Public Works.
(b) One storey masonry building, concrete floor, asphalt tile lobby, plaster walls and ceilings, bonded roof, fluorescent lights, oil fire and hot air heating.
9.	Under the terms of the lease the owner is responsible for repairs to the building.
1367 HOWE STREET, VANCOUVER, B.C.


1.	Has the Royal Canadian Air Force a property under lease at 1367 Howe street in the city of Vancouver, British Columbia?
2.	If so, when was the lease signed and when does it expire?
3.	For what purpose was this property leased?
4.	What is the monthly rental?
5.	Who are the owners of this building and what is the usual occupation of each?
6.	What is the description of the building?
7.	At the time of leasing the building what person or persons appraised the rental value?
8.	Has any portion of the building been sublet? If so, to whom and for what purpose?
9.	What is the (a) assessed value; (b) appraised value of the building at the present time?
10.	What was (a) the assessed value; (b) the appraised value at the time of leasing?
11.	Is there a penthouse on the building?
12.	If so, has it been sublet?
13.	Who is the lessee, what rental is paid and for what purpose is it used?
14.	How much has been spent by the government on repairs and maintenance of this building since it was first leased?


1.	The Department of Public Works leases space at 1363-1367 Howe street, Vancouver, for the Royal Canadian Air Force (ground observer corps).
2.	The initial lease was signed on May 12, 1952, for 2400 sq. ft. at $4,800 per annum or $2.00 per sq. ft. The lease was revised on March 1, 1954 to cover a total of 4752 sq. ft. at $9,000 per annum or $1.89 per sq. ft. It will expire on February 28, 1959.
3.	For the ground observer corps of the Royal Canadian Air Force.
4.	$750.

5.	Mr. Rowe Holland, barrister.
Mr. William C. Couper, retired.
6.	One storey masonry building with office space on the mezzanine floor.
7.	Evaluated by district architect of the Department of Public Works for rental purposes.
8.	No.
9.	(a) Assessed value; Land, $5,000; building, $21,700; total, $26,700.
(b) No formal appraisal obtained. (See answer to No. 7).
10.	(a) Assessed value in December, 1951, when initial lease being considered: Land, $10,000; building, $35,000; total, $45,000.
(b) Cost of construction including land at $10,000 was $52,296.
11.	No. A portion has extra ceiling clearance as required for the plotting room.
12.	No.
13.	Answered by Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
14.	Under the terms of the lease the lessor is responsible for general repairs. The Department of Public Works made the following expenditures for miscellaneous minor repairs since the building was first leased: 1952-53, $15.05; 1953-54, $94.55; 1954-55, $6.00.
The cleaning is carried out by the Department of National Defence at its own cost.


With reference to civil defence exercise Alert No. 2, held jointly with the Americans on June 15, has a review of the results of this exercise been undertaken since that date, and if so. was the test considered satisfactory?


A review of the entire exercise was recently made jointly by the Canadian and United States civil defence authorities but the findings are not yet available. However preliminary assessment of the Canadian part of the exercise indicates that it was eminently satisfactory and that there was at least an 80 per cent improvement in the effectiveness with which the exercise was carried out as compared with alert No. 1 held last year.
There was no attempt in Canada to carry out a test evacuation in any city in conjunction with alert No. 2. Evacuation trials in Canada were held separately in St. John's, Newfoundland, before June 15 and in Brandon, Manitoba, on June 26. Others are scheduled for later this year in a number of other Canadian cities. Canada's part in alert No. 2 was limited by design to a test of communication facilities and procedures, involving the surprise transmission of attack warning information to a number of participating cities. None of these cities had any

advance information as to the time or nature of the attack that they would have to cope with on June 15. The local and provincial organizations were required in their turn to report to the federal civil defence control centre at Arnprior on the detailed nature of the damage to their target area, the steps being taken to cope with it, and the requirements for aid from outside the target area.
The purpose of this exercise was to probe and expose our operations and other weaknesses. While there were a number of delays and errors in the transmission of messages, these errors and delays were not too numerous and both the provincial and federal civil defence authorities have learned some lessons from the exercise which will lead to improvements in communications methods and procedures when future tests are carried out.


1.	What is the monthly rental paid for the building used for the post office at Marysville, British Columbia?
2.	What amount per month is paid for the caretaking services of this building?
3.	What amount was paid to the owner of this building for furnishings, heating equipment, electric wiring and light fixtures?
4.	What amount was paid for fuel for this building for the calendar year 1954?
5.	Is this building being rented under lease?
6.	If so, when does the lease expire?


1.	$55 a month.
2.	Owner is responsible for janitor and cleaning services.
3.	$133.
4.	$72.56.
5.	Yes.
6.	March 31, 1956.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, before the orders of the day are called I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the fact that his departmental estimates have been dealt with, can the minister tell us if he will arrange to meet a delegation from the lakehead which has requested that there be a meeting with the cabinet, or representatives of the cabinet, on July 21, the request being from the lakehead natural gas committee, to discuss plans in regard to a pipe line.


Mr. Speaker, I received a request from the mayor of Port Arthur and 50433-399
Inquiries of the Ministry
the mayor of Fort William that I arrange a meeting for a delegation which they would head, with the cabinet, to discuss natural gas. I think hon. members will appreciate that the cabinet is rather busy at the moment in an endeavour to close the session of parliament. I was obliged to wire that I could not arrange the appointment.
Of course if any man or group of men wishes to meet me, they may readily have the privilege of doing so; but this was a request to meet the cabinet.


May I ask the minister a supplementary question? Would they be able to meet the cabinet once the house has prorogued?


Mr. Speaker, it is not everyone who is permitted to appear before the cabinet to state his position in relation to matters pending. Whether it can be arranged in this case, I cannot say; but I will be glad to discuss the subject with the cabinet.


Mr. Speaker, will the Minister of Trade and Commerce not agree that there are reasons why this delegation should have the opportunity, in view of the fact that we had a statement from the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) early last week that there were three different plans under consideration? Then there was the subsequent statement from the Minister of Trade and Commerce that he knew of no plans.
I should think there is every reason that the delegation should be permitted to come to discuss their views, on account of the uncertainty that has been created by those two conflicting statements.


I am in a somewhat different position from the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Drew) and the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra (Mr. Green) in that I am the minister for the area affected. This would seem to me a matter that I am capable of dealing with, without intervention by hon. members for Carleton or Vancouver-Quadra. But perhaps I am mistaken about that.


Mr. Speaker, does the Minister of Trade and Commerce suggest that the lakehead area is a no-man's land for everyone except himself?


Mr. Speaker, I suggest it has been found to be so in the last five federal elections.


Mr. Speaker, the mayor of Port Arthur and the mayor of Fort William had a delegation ready to meet the minister. They had no new suggestions, but they have stated before that they were going to see that the pipe line came

Supply-Veterans Affairs
through. They have no new suggestions now. The minister is to be congratulated on having the courage to stick to his guns.


Mr. Speaker, one of our difficulties is that we do not know what the plans are. The Minister of Trade and Commerce has said there are none, while the Prime Minister has said there are three. I think we should have this information.


The hon. member for Fort William (Mr. Mclvor) does not know, either.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce? A number of delivery points in my area report that they have been placed on the 8-bushel quota, but box cars are not available. Can the minister inform the house what they can do to obtain the cars?


Mr. Speaker, it is difficult
for me to deal with unstated locations. The hon. member says there are a number of stations. The recommendation I make is that the producers write to the elevator company of their choice and urge that box cars be allocated to those areas. As my hon. friend knows, the responsibility of allocating box cars to delivery points is in the hands of the grain companies who hold forwarding orders from the wheat board.


I understand it is agreed
that I now leave the chair without question put.


Agreed.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Applewhaite in the chair.


510. Departmental administration $2,230,141.
Department of
Veterans Affairs, resolution No. 510, which is to be found on page 75 of the book of the main estimates, the details commencing at page 609.


Is the minister going to
make a statement at this point?


It was not my intention to
make a statement at this point. These estimates, as hon. members know, have been

thoroughly discussed before the estimates committee and I do not believe it would be appropriate for me to make any further statement now. I am willing to listen to the hon. member's remarks.


I was hoping the minister
would make a statement. He is running true to form. This is the fifth successive year in which the veterans affairs estimates have come before the house under the same minister, and on each occasion he has declined to make a statement preceding the discussion of the estimates, and has contented himself with comments here and there throughout the proceedings. It would be an improvement if a statement summing up the year's work of the department and pointing to the continuing problem were presented to the committee by the minister in charge.
This is an important department. It affects a very large number of people; the amount of money voted to the department is considerable, and the committee would welcome at the beginning of the departmental estimates a general statement giving a summary of the departmental administration and activity.
In failing to do that for five years in succession the minister places himself in a peculiar position. I am tendering him some advice now which of course he may not accept. The veterans across this country are intensely interested in the Department of Veterans Affairs, and should hear from the minister in charge from time to time.
There are continuing problems in connection with this department, and on those problems the minister should comment. Year after year the request is put forward for a standing committee on veterans affairs. Year after year special committees are appointed with restricted fields of inquiry. I suggest to the minister that he initiate proceedings to set up a standing committee on veterans affairs. The problems of the veteran are going to be with us for a long time. I think we can count that from the conclusion of a war, veterans' problems will exist for at least 70 years.
We have still on our pension rolls members of the forces which took part in the northwest rebellion in 1885. There are on the rolls members of the forces which participated in the South African war and who will certainly be with us until the 1970's. The survivors of the first world war will be here for another 30 years. The survivors of world war II will last into the 21st century, as will the survivors of Korea. How can you escape the problems of veterans for the next 70 years? If another conflict intervenes there will be other veterans to consider, and over

and above everything else there is the regular army, air force and navy to be considered.
It is not as though the problems of the veterans were solved in any one year. Rather comprehensive legislation was passed after the second world war but it requires review and amendment. If it were perfect the problems of the veteran would be solved, but there are continually recurring problems. Veterans organizations are requesting changes in the legislation, new suggestions are being put forward, and in my opinion these matters should be considered by a standing committee. I think the department would gain from the work of such a standing committee which should be given the power to investigate all phases of veterans legislation and problems connected therewith.
This year the estimates of the Department of Veterans Affairs were referred to the committee on estimates, which met first on April 20 and had a series of meetings which concluded on April 27. That committee gave considerable attention to the estimates and received valuable reports from departmental officials. A special committee on veterans affairs met on March 9 and continued its hearings until March 24. This committee dealt with two particular problems. I think that at this stage in the proceedings the minister might very well have summarized the work of those two committees and reported to this committee thereon, indicating what action if any had been taken or was contemplated by the department in response to the questions raised.
The minister cannot overlook the fact that each year there are questions which require answering concerning the veterans, such as pension rates and war veterans allowances. There is an urgent need to bring in some finding for this house concerning the benefit of doubt section in the Pension Act. There is need to consider section 13 (2), which affects members of the regular forces who are injured. That section is the one which causes so much trouble as to whether or not the claim of the applicant is based on injury or death arising out of duty. Departmental officials have reported to us in committee that study had been given to that section. Why is the minister not prepared at this stage to let us know the result of that study and suggest to us whether or not an alteration in that section is going to be made in due course?
Other problems came up in the course of those committee meetings. One was the question as to whether England in the first world war should be called a theatre of war. This would affect about 50,000 men who 50433-3991
Supply-Veterans Affairs
served there in world war I. That problem was discussed in committee. There is no escaping the problem. I have here a file of letters representing correspondence from veterans or their relatives in every province in Canada with the exception of Newfoundland. Those letters came to me this spring, in addition to the letters that I get from veterans who live in the constituency that I represent. These letters point out the difficulties that still face our veterans.
It is a long time since the first world war ended. Yet the first world war veteran finds that he has unsolved problems, and he looks to the House of Commons to give him some assistance. I did not solicit those letters. I was pleased to hear from so many people and very much interested in reading about their problems. I find that they are the same problems about which I have known for many years now: war veterans allowances; people who have been wounded and have never received a pension, or have been wounded several times and received a pension for only one wound; others who report that because of lack of documents their cases cannot be dealt with; and so on. What is the minister going to do about these matters? Is he content with the legislation as it exists at the present time or is he prepared to suggest modifications?
I think that the veterans across Canada would welcome a more active approach to veterans problems on the part of the minister. He is their representative within the cabinet, and they are dependent on him to press the point of view of the veterans within the cabinet. I think it would be helpful if he showed some of that desire here in the house to indicate that his main interest while a member of the government is in connection with veterans affairs. He cannot do that unless he summarizes and reports on the work of his department. At this stage, Mr. Chairman, I should like to point out that although the problems of veterans keep recurring here year after year-and I suppose every member of the House of Commons is in correspondence with veterans-the veterans of Canada have not raided the treasury or made excessive demands. Some people get the idea that everybody who served in world war I is now on the pension list, or is applying for pension or something of that nature. Let us consider the situation.
We have on the pension roll about 60,000 disability pensioners of world war I. The figures that I have been able to compile from government reports over the years show that from 1923 to 1954 75,385 disability pensioners were placed on the pension roll. Over the same period of years, 121,822 veterans made
8318	HOUSE OF
Supply-Veterans Affairs
application for pension and were refused. I am not suggesting that there was not reason to refuse some of those pension applications. Some people sometimes apply without valid reason. But my own experience with veterans has been that, in most instances, there is some substance to their claims. However, I put these figures before the committee to indicate that the men of the first world war have not been receiving pensions in very large numbers. Just consider the total figures. Of the 650,000 who enlisted in the services in the first world war, 400,000 served in France and approximately 60,000 were killed and 138,000 were wounded. Of that 138,000 who were wounded, the total awards for disability pension were, as I have already said, just over 75,000 which figure is just about half or a little over half of those who were wounded. It makes you wonder what happened to all the rest. While those who were wounded and those who survived without being wounded make a total of
340,000	survivors of the first world war, there have been only 75,000 awards for disability pension. That means that 78 per cent of those who served in France and survived have not been placed on the pension roll in Canada.
If you are going to put the picture forward fully, you would have to look at those who appeared under war veterans allowance. These are the men who, in most instances, had service in a theatre of war-that is in France-have reached 60 years of age and are in extremely difficult financial circumstances. I have not included those figures in this small summary that I am now giving, but I bring it forward to indicate that the survivors of world war I have not constituted a serious financial drain on the people of Canada, when 78 per cent of them have not been placed on the pension roll and only slightly over half of those who were actually wounded have been placed on it. It is estimated that there are 300,000 world war I veterans who are still living. I am not sure whether or not that figure applies solely to those who served outside of Canada or includes some whose service was within Canada.
Let us look at the picture in this way. People speak about veterans being on a pension, and they think everything is fine. They say, "Well, he has a pension." But when you look at the record, you discover that those who are on pension are mostly on very small pensions. On page 819 of the report of the special committee on estimates dated April 26 of this year, the chairman of the pension commission gave us figures to show


how these pensioners are distributed in the pension scale. I quote his words:
. . . 25-48 per cent disability pensioners whose pension is 50 per cent and more and there are 74-52 per cent whose awards are less than 50 per cent:
That is for world war I. If you look at the pensions that were granted in the period from April 1, 1954, to the end of March, 1955, you discover that for world war I people very few received a pension of more than 50 per cent, and most of them were under that figure.
Now, the same thing is true of the pensioners of world war II. The chairman of the pension commission continued on page 820 with respect to world war II. The actual figure is 16-98 per cent who received 50 per cent or more and 83 per cent who received less than 50 per cent. Then he goes on to say:
The average disability pension payment of world war I was 32-64-
That would be dollars.
-and world war II 24-53.
These people, therefore, are not in very comfortable circumstances. Then, just putting the two tables together, world war I and world war II pension entitlements granted during the last 12 months, you find that those who were placed in the bracket of 50 per cent and more number only 8 per cent, while 92 per cent were in the bracket below that. Now, dividing it in a little different way, you find that those who are drawing pensions up to 20 per cent constitute 85 per cent of those who were placed on the roll last year.
Now, surely that indicates that the pensions granted to our disability pensioners are not very good. Most of them, as I have shown, are in the very low brackets. You may wonder why as many as 85 per cent, after going through all the procedure that is set up for the granting of pensions, should not get more than an allotment of 20 per cent. I bring forward those figures to indicate that, interested as the House of Commons has been in the problems of pensioners over the years, the problem is far from being solved. The pensioners have not been granted a great amount of money. Most of them are in difficult circumstances. Even those disability pensioners who are getting these small amounts-at least some of them-are in such difficult circumstances they have had to be placed also on the war veterans allowance. There are 10,000 of them drawing war veterans allowances in addition to their small pension. They are not drawing war veterans allowance in full, only in part, but that indicates that 10,000 disability pensioners, being

assisted in this way for their services overseas, still have to draw war veterans allowances because of their difficult financial circumstances.
Having served on the estimates committee that dealt with the estimates of this department this year, I should like to pay my tribute to the departmental officials who appeared before that committee. I doubt if there is a department of government that is more ably served than is this particular department. The officials who appeared before us had the information readily available and were very helpful throughout our entire discussion. We endeavoured to get from them as much information as possible, and they were prepared to give it. Naturally, when we came to matters affecting policy, we had to look to the minister for decisions. This department is, I think, ably served by its officials. I hope that in the course of our discussion today we will be able to bring up other points that are of interest to veterans as a whole and we will be able to impress upon the minister the fact that this problem is a continuing problem which needs closer attention than has been given, in my opinion, in ministerial circles. I hope he will accept some of the suggestions that will be brought forward today with regard to future plans, and particularly in regard to the setting up of a standing committee.


While no doubt many of us are anxious to return to our homes as soon as possible in order to refill the drained reservoirs of our hearts, minds and weary bodies, this department's responsibilities and activities are too important to too many Canadians-too many Canadians about whom we are particularly concerned-to receive only casual attention at this time. This department has responsibilities to the older veterans, with their loyalties, their associations, their memories, their increasing aches and pains, and to the younger veterans with their great pride in recent service, and their hopes and aspirations for the future. In addition, the department has responsibilities to the dependents of both groups, and to Canadians in general who are concerned that those men shall receive the treatment that Canada intended them to receive.
This department reaches into the homes of thousands of veterans across the country. What we do in the House of Commons and in the veterans affairs committee in connection with their welfare has a great impact upon those homes. I was very much impressed with that fact recently when I received some figures from the department. It was interesting to note that as of March 31 last there
Supply-Veterans Affairs
were 160,436 disability pensioners and 34,012 dependents of those pensioners. I note that at the same date there were 32,471 veterans receiving war veterans allowances and 11,816 receiving widows allowances. And at this point I must digress to compliment the parliamentary assistant upon his particular interest in this question. There were 856 dependents and 211 orphans. Under the Veterans Land Act I note that there were 29,121 veterans receiving assistance as fulltime farmers and commercial fishermen, that on small holdings there were 30,519, and that 19,852 veterans had received assistance in connection with housing under various arrangements. These figures indicate the great impact by the department upon Canadians.
Before proceeding I should like to express my appreciation of the courtesy and consideration I have received on all occasions from the senior officials, the members of the Canadian pension commission, from the members of the war veterans allowance board, from the officials of Veterans Land Act administration, and the district officials of the department. When I refer to district officials I must take this opportunity to say how much many of us in British Columbia regret losing the services of Colonel Weir, who was assistant district administrator in Vancouver. We understand he has left the department to enter his family business. I know he leaves the department with the best wishes of members of parliament from British Columbia and those of the many veterans whom he has served so well during his tenure of office.
I have always found officials in the department ready to do anything they could to assist veterans and their dependents, within the confines of the law and the regulations. In fact, Mr. Chairman, I wish that the very small minority of veterans who possibly do not realize the immense activities of the department, and the concern of its officials to do the best they can for them, under the law and regulations, could witness some of the day-to-day activities of the department in Ottawa and in the district offices.
In my opinion the Department of Veterans Affairs constitutes administration with a heart. That is, it has developed administrative procedures and techniques that I hope will be used in the near future to deal with our casualties in civilian life. In my opinion this department has established a pattern that we might well follow in meeting the problems of our civilian citizens in connection with disabilities, rehabilitation and re-establishment.
It is the responsibility of parliament to amend veterans legislation when required.

Supply-Veterans Affairs
On that account I wish to bring a few matters to the attention of the house and the minister. Before doing so, however, in all fairness I must pay tribute to the excellent work done on behalf of veterans by the Canadian Legion and the national council of veterans. Their representations and their co-operation with members of the House of Commons, with the parliamentary committee, and with officials of the Department of Veterans Affairs have been most valuable throughout the years. In my opinion every veteran should help carry the burden imposed upon these organizations by joining whichever of them is most convenient.
Before proceeding to what I might describe as the complaining portion of my speech, I should like to say how glad I am that the sombre and rabbit-warren official existence of the officials and staff of the department is now ended because of their occupancy of the new building. It is a building well worthy of the vast and important activities of the department. I hear a colleague to my left saying that while he agrees with me in general, he must bring to my attention the fact that the building is not air conditioned. I hope with him that will come at a later date.
My next reference is to the War Veterans Allowance Act. The committee studied and dealt with the act at some length. Without doubt the bill that was passed has been beneficial to thousands of veterans and their dependents across the country. There is no doubt that this was an excellent step in the right direction. But I do urge the government to give further consideration to the representations of veterans organizations, and particularly to an increase in the permissive income. I believe an increase in permissive income would be of great advantage to many veterans and their dependents.
I support the representations by the Legion with respect to the payment of war veterans allowances to veterans residing outside Canada, but particularly to those veterans who find it necessary to reside outside Canada for health reasons. I have one typical example in my constituency. I understand these cases are few in number; but the present law and regulations do impose great hardships upon these few.
I have taken up with the department officials the case of the veteran in my constituency to whom I have referred, and I must say that those officials are most sympathetic. They are prepared to do whatever they can; but because of the law and regulations they cannot do anything at this
[Mr. Herridge.l
time. This is a man who is over 60 years of age-about 67, I believe-who has been on war veterans allowance, and who suffers from a bronchial condition. I said once before in the house that if one met him in the dark he would think that he was meeting a horse with the heaves. This man finds it most difficult to live comfortably under Canadian climatic conditions. He has a most painful time of it.
When attending Shaughnessy hospital last spring one of the doctors suggested that he go to Mexico and take advantage of that dry and high altitude. With that in mind he sold the little property he had and went to Mexico. He lives now near Mexico City and finds that he can live comfortably and without distress. While he will never be cured he can live in greater ease and comfort. However, because he is not living in Canada he cannot receive his war veterans allowance. Thus far he has lived on the small sum of money he took with him. Because of his condition the medical authorities there have extended his visa, and given him the right to stay in Mexico for some considerable time.
In the near future this man will be without funds. So long as he lives, his happiness and comfort can only be found in a climate of that kind. But because of the present act and regulations-and the officials can do nothing for him-he now finds himself without the allowance and will soon be broke. I do urge that consideration be given to the representations of the Legion in this respect, particularly as they apply to those few veterans who find it necessary to live outside Canada because of health reasons.
While we have veterans legislation we can be proud of, in a general way, there are still lots of bits and pieces that have to be cleared up. Various amendments will have to be made to the veterans charter if the legislation is to function as was intended by the people of Canada. That is indicated by the resolutions passed at the last convention of the Canadian Legion held in Toronto from August 1 to August 6, 1954; I think it is more correct to say at the last veterans parliament of Canada that met in Toronto on that date. I want to bring to the attention of the committee and of the minister a number of resolutions that were passed at that convention on which no action has been taken to date. Some of them are minor; some are somewhat major in character, but I am bringing them to the attention of the committee and of the minister for a particular purpose. I find on reading the minutes of the convention that

of course further amendments to the veterans allowance act were requested of the government. I have dealt with that question. There were 18 resolutions concerning amendments to the Pension Act. Some of them are minor, and may seem almost trivial in a sense, but they are important to the people they concern. There were 17 resolutions concerning amendments to the treatment regulations, and things of that sort; 6 resolutions concerning rehabilitation and reestablishment; 7 resolutions concerning amendments to the Veterans Land Act administration, including one concerning the reduction of acreage in small holdings. I am going to read that resolution because it is of particular concern to a great number of veterans whom I have the honour to represent. The resolution reads as follows:
Be it resolved that this convention once again petition the government to reduce the amount of land required for settlement on small holdings under Veterans Land Act.
This is a matter of very serious concern to many veterans in my constituency and to other constituencies in Canada, but I think particularly to veterans in British Columbia because of the topography and nature of the country. We find it very difficult to get the larger acreage required at present around our small towns and cities. A reduction of the acreage would provide a great opportunity for several hundred veterans in Kootenay West to obtain small holdings which they are very anxious to obtain. I know from experience, and I know departmental officials know from experience, that some of the most successful small holdings in the whole of Canada are in the constituency of Kootenay West. All we want is more of the same thing. I do urge the minister to give serious consideration to these representations. For the life of me, I cannot understand why the government refuses to consider the recommendations and representations that come from time to time from the members from British Columbia and from all across Canada. I cannot see where it would cost the government one five-cent piece, and yet it continues to insist on the present acreage of 1-6 acres if the land is valued at $500 an acre or more, or 3 acres if it is valued at less. It will mean a great deal to a large number of veterans across Canada because, regardless of any housing legislation we have under the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation, and the new housing legislation brought in at the last session to assist veterans, the best housing legislation we have in Canada is that which can be obtained under the small holdings section of the Veterans Land Act. I will
Supply-Veterans Affairs
say another thing. The officials of the Veterans Land Act and the department administering that act, as I said before, administer it with a heart and with sympathy for veterans, and not as if they were representing a mortgage company or a trust company.


Hear, hear.


I have the endorsement of the hon. member for Cape Breton South in that matter.
Then, I find 15 resolutions concerning the armed forces pay and allowances and certain things that veterans are concerned with. There is a resolution concerning compensation for prisoners of war. Ten resolutions were passed concerning veterans preference in the civil service. That is one thing the veterans of Canada have to keep their eyes on because a bit of torpedoing is being done on the quiet in different quarters. I strongly suggest these resolutions should receive the attention of the minister and the government.
There were 2 resolutions concerning unemployment and establishment of new industry; 2 concerning imperial veterans; 6 covering suggested amendments to veterans insurance; 2 respecting citizenship and immigration; and others including the Last Post fund, the benevolent fund, the Legion auxiliary services and the corps of commissionaires. I am going to have a bit more to say about that. There have come to see me some responsible people in Ottawa who are very interested in the activities of the corps of commissionaires. But I notice an item for the corps in the estimates of the minister having to do with mines and technical surveys. I am going to blather a bit at length on that item when it comes before the house.
The final resolution that they bring to the attention of the government-last but not least-is one concerning Remembrance day. I bring this to the attention of the committee and the minister to indicate the number of things that do concern the veterans organizations as representatives of the veterans of this country and things that require the attention of this government and this House of Commons. These resolutions indicate the concern of veterans organizations with necessary amendments to the present legislation. They indicate the reason for their concern in respect of the establishment of a permanent select standing committee on veterans affairs. Their concern is expressed in a resolution passed at the last veterans parliament held in Toronto to which I referred
6320	HOUSE OF
Supply-Veterans Affairs before. I am going to read it because it is an important one. The resolution is as follows:
Whereas up to the present time the Canadian government has appointed a veterans parliamentary committee on special occasions,
Therefore, be it resolved that Dominion Command be urged to request the government of Canada to make provision for the establishment and appointment of a select standing committee on veterans affairs to which may be referred from time to time, and as occasion demands, matters affecting war veterans and their dependents, including government or private members' bills and resolutions relating to existing or proposed veterans legislation.
And be it further resolved that there be no restriction to the terms of reference of the standing committee.
The veterans organization have noticed with some dismay the increasing restrictions in the terms of reference to the standing committee in recent years. They want a standing committee appointed; they want a standing committee with power to listen to representations on all sections of the veterans charter.
I have condensed my remarks as much as possible because I know there are a good number of members who wish to speak on this first item. But I do urge the government to accede to the wishes of the veterans organizations and to members of parliament by establishing a permanent committee of the House of Commons so that legislation affecting veterans and their dependents can be continually reviewed.
In that connection, I want to say I was very pleased to know that the estimates of the department were referred to the estimates committee. I did not have the opportunity to be on the committee at that time because I was very anxious to be present at the external affairs committee hearings on the international rivers bill, but the members of our group who were on the committee told me that the officials of the department gave very complete explanations of all the matters that were raised; and that it was a very beneficial experience. Estimates are a matter that can be dealt with by a standing committee on veterans affairs. The estimates of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and all the representations which various veterans organizations wish to bring to the attention of the committee, can be well handled by it.
In my opinion the parliamentary committee is a bridge between the House of Commons and veterans organizations. To date it has been somewhat of a pontoon bridge erected on occasion to meet a flood of immediate representations and complaints. I do urge the government and the minister to make it a permanent bridge between this
[Mr. Herridge.l

House of Commons and the veterans organizations of Canada across which they will be able to walk freely with their problems at any time during which this house is in session.


Mr. Chairman, since we have already had a number of discussions on veterans affairs during the time the veterans affairs committee was set up and the time that the veterans resolutions and bills were before the house, and having in mind also the fact that the estimates of the Department of Veterans Affairs were referred to the estimates committee, I am going to be brief at this time in my remarks. At this time I am going to be quite brief but I shall have more to say on a number of particular items.
In my opinion the veterans charter does provide the veterans of this country with one of the best programs for the rehabilitation and re-establishment of the veteran to be found in any part of the world, but even so there are still a number of loose ends that need tying up. I should like to say that in my opinion we are most fortunate in the type of official we have to administer the act. I have always found them most considerate and anxious to deal with any matter I bring before them. I might say also that the complaints I am receiving in my mail today are few as compared with the number I used to receive some ten years ago, which I think goes to show that many improvements have been made in the veterans legislation of this country.
Amendments were passed at this session to the War Veterans Allowance Act which removed one of the main grievances that had existed, that was the amount of the allowance. The allowance was raised from $50 to $60 per month for single veterans and from $90 to $108 for married veterans. That came close to meeting the demands of the Legion. However, I regret that the government was not able to meet' the request of the Legion and of the national council of veterans associations in so far as permissive income is concerned. They had asked that permissive income be raised to $1,200 for the single veteran and $2,000 for the married veteran to bring it approximately on a line with the amount of the income tax exemption. While I regret that the government was not able to go that far, I do appreciate that the new directive in connection with casual earnings does go a long way in allowing the veterans to have additional income up to $500 a year provided it is earned in a manner outlined in the directive.
In considering the War Veterans Allowance Act we should always keep in mind that it

Supply-Veterans Affairs
represents the veteran's last resort. When a veteran is unable to obtain a pension owing to some technicality in the act he must seek assistance under the War Veterans Allowance Act. Many times there is a narrow line of demarcation between the veteran who is able to get a pension and the one who is not. The service in both cases may appear to be almost identical, but owing to some technicality the one veteran is not able to get a pension and he must seek assistance under the War Veterans Allowance Act. Usually the cause for that is that his disability is considered to be one of pre-enlistment origin. These cases are reviewed and sometimes a veteran who has not been able to obtain a pension in the first place is allowed a pension in later years.
I think the government should give further consideration to the recommendations by the Legion and the national council of veterans associations in connection with other amendments to the act. For instance, there is the recommendation that veterans living outside of Canada who are otherwise qualified should be granted an allowance. That same recommendation was made when we were discussing old age pensions. If the government will not go so far as to apply that principle generally, at least they should make it possible to grant a war veterans allowance to the veteran who finds it necessary to go south because of health, such as a man suffering from arthritis, rheumatism, or asthma. If a doctor should advise a veteran to go south I think the department should extend the payment of war veterans allowance to such a man when he must leave Canada. I would submit that the same should apply to the payment of old age pensions.
Then there is the case of the widow of an allied veteran who died before he had completed 20 years' residence in this country and who is not considered eligible for a war veterans allowance. The recommendation of the Legion is that when such widow has completed 20 years' residence in this country she should be eligible. I think a good case is made out there, and for the life of me I cannot understand why the government has refused up to this time to grant that request. I should imagine that the amount of money involved would be quite small and it seems to m