On the orders of the day:
May I
ask the Minister of Finance when he expects to be in a position to make an announcement concerning the proposed appointment of a royal commission to inquire into the economy of Canada?


am not in a position to make an announcement at the moment, nor is it probable that I will be for some time; but if hon. members are thinking in terms of discussing the matter, there will be an item in the supplementary estimates for consideration.


It was not with a view to discussing it. It was with a view to eliciting from the minister whether we may expect an early announcement by the government about the appointment of the royal commission and its personnel.


Not for the time being, Mr. Speaker.


A change of policy?


That is a very informative answer.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Has the minister noticed the finding of the Ontario court of appeal in a perjury case, as reported in the Toronto Star of May 14? If so, is he planning to introduce any amendment to the Canadian Criminal Code to take care of the point successfully raised by the defence lawyers?


The charge to which my hon. friend has referred, which was in effect dismissed by the Ontario court of appeal, was a charge of fabricating evidence laid under section 177 of the old code. Subsection 2 of section 171 of the old code, which contained a reference to proceedings before parliamentary committees, related only to proceedings for perjury under section 170 of the old code, and therefore was held to have no application in the case which came before the court of appeal. The fault which I have just referred to was rectified when the new Criminal Code was enacted.


I should like to ask the Minister of Justice a question supplementary to that asked by the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam. Has the minister or his department given consideration to the implications of the findings in the judgment of the Ontario court of appeal, to the effect that parliament is not a court, with a view to introducing legislation or taking whatever action may be necessary to make it clear that parliament is a court?


I indicated that in the reply, Mr. Speaker, which I gave a moment ago to the question of the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam. I said that in the drafting of the new code we had examined those sections of the old code in question and had endeavoured, I think successfully, to correct the point which was dealt with by the Ontario court of appeal in this case, in which the charge was laid under the old code.


Arising out of the minister's answer concerning whether or not parliament is a court of record, the minister mentioned an amendment that has come into effect. In the new code it is simply provided that it is an offence when perjury is committed before committees of the house or Senate; but the larger question as to whether or not parliament is indeed a court of record will be left in a very doubtful position unless an appeal is taken from the decision of the court of appeal of Ontario. After all, we have always accepted that parliament is a court of record.
4166	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry Would the minister consider either appealing that case on that point or bringing in an amendment?


The question that was asked by the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam dealt with a legal point which had arisen in this Ontario case. We have been trying to get a copy of the reasons for judgment of the court of appeal of Ontario in that case, and failing that we have been in communication with the deputy attorney general of Ontario seeking confirmation of our own impression that the point involved in that case had already been taken care of by the provisions of the new Criminal Code. Now, not having seen the reasons for judgment of the Ontario court of appeal, I am not in a position to say whether they are capable of the more extensive implications the hon. member for Prince Albert is now imputing to them.
I am, however, rather inclined to think the Ontario court of appeal judges were dealing only with the interpretation of the relevant section of the old code in reaching the conclusion they reached in that case. The question was whether the accused, upon the facts, was guilty of an offence under section 177 of the old code. This question, again, turned upon whether those proceedings before a parliamentary committee were court proceedings within the meaning of this section 177 of the old Criminal Code; and not I think upon whether they were court proceedings in the larger sense in which my friend from Prince Albert now refers to them.


The minister will look into it, anyway.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. In his reply to a question yesterday he referred to the guided missile displayed on parliament hill yesterday as a "Nike". Was that a real "Nike" or was it just a wooden mock-up?


Mr. Speaker, I did not attempt to dismantle the "Nike", and I do not know whether it was real or partly real. I do know it was purported to be a "Nike" without the booster, which would have made it about twice the length it was. However, I do not 

make a practice of examining all the shells we have on display or which we use.


I hope all our weapons are not as phony as that.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. What progress is being made toward completing prairie farm assistance payments? Will the balance of the payments be made at an early date, in view of the disastrous financial position of many farmers?


I presume the hon. member is interested in the Manitoba payments.


Yes.


The total number of townships paid in Manitoba is 696; the total number of farmers who have been paid is 21,892, and the total amount of money paid is $3,909,025.50. There may be some cases that are still under inspection or reinspection where payment has not been made, but a very large percentage have already been paid.


You do not know how many more remain to be paid?


No. That will not be known until all the checks have been made on the requests for reinspection.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Agriculture. Is it government policy to make payments under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act, as recorded in the Leader-Post of May 17, wherein Mr. W. R. Bird, director of prairie farm assistance, is quoted as having said:
If flooding makes a township eligible, then pay-merits will be made.
I was wondering if the minister would care to comment on when payments under this act will be made in Saskatchewan.


Mr. Bird, the director of prairie farm assistance, could have gone even further than he has gone in this statement. I read the statement in the press where he is reported to have said:
If flooding makes a township eligible, then payments will be made.

He might have said:
Where flooding has made townships eligible payments already have been made.
Payments are very considerable in the province of Saskatchewan. I gave the figures a few moments ago for Manitoba. Payments in Saskatchewan have been made to 2,628 townships and 85,156 farmers, and the total payment has been $20,756,025.25. I understand this represents payments to 75 per cent of the farmers in Saskatchewan. I think it will be recognized by every hon. member that fairly reasonable progress has been made, and that includes all the persons who would be eligible under the statement made by Mr. Bird.


Will
the minister permit a supplementary question in order to clarify the position? There is some confusion regarding this statement. I understand that payments are not made on land which is flooded unless the land has been seeded; that land which is not seeded is not eligible for prairie farm assistance. Is that right?


That is not exactly correct. In the first place there has to be an area which has no crop or has a low crop for some reason, below 8 bushels to the acre. That may be a township, or it may be 6 sections or more in a township, depending on the situation which the hon. member understands. In addition to that, the land has to be "cultivated land" but not necessarily seeded land. Cultivated land is defined in the act as seeded land or summerfallow land or land that is in grass that has been seeded down. Payments are made in accordance with these provisions in all the areas that have been flooded, and have been made up until now. I think that is a full explanation of how the payments are made.


To get it quite clear, in estimating the kind of land that is eligible is it fair to say that non-seeded land is not included?


No; non-cultivated land is not calculated.


If the land is cultivated-


In figuring the actual seeded acreage and the yield, which is less than 8 bushels to the acre or higher than 8, that of course is based on the seeded acreage.


Then land flooded but not seeded-


Order.


I want to get this clear, because there is confusion.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Could we not wait until another occasion arises to elucidate further how these payments are arrived at, because there may be other questions to be asked on other subjects?


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries. Is the minister aware of reports that large quantities of dead herring-I mean dead herring, not red herring-have been found in the fishing grounds in the gulf of St. Lawrence and the bay of Chaleur, and are causing great concern and alarm amongst the fishermen of the area? If so, are any steps being taken by the fisheries research board to determine the cause of the appearance of such large quantities of dead fish on the sea bottom?


Earlier in the week the skippers of several draggers operating along the north shore of New Brunswick and in the bay of Chaleur sent several specimens of dead herring to the department, which they found while dragging for cod and haddock. We are sending two scientists from St. Andrews to that area to conduct an investigation.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance in his capacity as house leader. When is it intended to call the next supply motion?


I have tried to set a pattern in the last few weeks of devoting Thursdays and Fridays to supply, and Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays to legislation and supply motions when necessary. I had in mind that on Monday we would begin with some legislation that we would like to get out of the way, and then go on with a supply motion. If it happens to be reached on Monday it will be dealt with; but on Tuesday if not on Monday.


I think this is a matter in which the house has a special interest. The position of supply motions in regard to proceedings in the house is well recognized, and I submit that they should be heard first on any day they are to be called. I would ask the house leader to agree that if it is to come up

Inquiries of the Ministry on Monday, the supply motion will be called first and not left in suspense to depend upon any uncertain debate that might follow the prior introduction of other measures.
Could we have an assurance from the minister in that regard? After all, we have reached a point in the session when it is not only proper but desirable that members know when debates arising on matters of that kind are going to come forward.


I have just said that upon the conclusion of certain legislation the supply motion would be reached. I do not suppose I can make it more definite than that. I should have announced the legislation last night, as has been my custom, but I have abandoned that custom a little since we got into supply. But I can give my hon. friend a list of those items I would like to have discussed first, and then take the supply motion.


I would point out that the minister is abandoning the long-established practice with regard to supply motions; and I submit that unless he is prepared to admit he is trying to juggle the business of the house in an unsatisfactory way, he should change his opinion.


Mr. Speaker, do you not think that language is rather unparliamentary, under the circumstances? Juggling is something it is not our custom to do.


You have been juggling the business of the house all session.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. I heard the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Drew) say that, presumably I, had been juggling the business of parliament all session. Mr. Speaker, I assure you I can call plenty of witnesses in this house to show that I have accommodated the opposition more this session than they have ever been accommodated before.


What?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Has the minister received any requests for drainage or dredging assistance or other representations in respect to flood damage to farm land in Kipling district, resulting from the Canadian National Railways line preventing normal drainage? If so, what has been the nature 
of those requests, and what action does the government intend to take in assuming responsibility?


Mr. Speaker, in reply to the question of the hon. member for Moose Mountain I should say that the minister has received no requests for drainage or dredging assistance, or other representations in respect of flood damage in the Kipling district. Not having received any such representations, I am unable to state the nature of the requests that may be made or the action that will be taken when they are received.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct the question to the Minister of Agriculture, to whom I sent notice. Has his department received any requests in connection with the matter that I just referred to the Minister of Transport?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for having given me a copy of his question. In reply I would state that we would naturally not receive any requests in connection with drainage. All requests in connection with drainage in the provinces go to the provincial governments, and they are referred to the provincial government in Saskatchewan just as they are in any other province. The responsibility for drainage is with the provinces.
The provincial government representatives who were here called our attention to the fact that there are flood conditions in the Kipling area. They are included in the representations that were made to this government; but that is in accordance with the fact that it is a provincial responsibility.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Can the minister give any information to the house respecting the airplane tragedy which occurred at the municipal airport in Edmonton yesterday?


The only information I can give is that an inquiry has been instituted in order to determine what were the causes of the accident.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday last the hon. member for Vancouver East (Mr. Winch) asked a question regarding the Port Mann shops, and at an earlier date the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Hahn) asked similar questions in connection with the same matter. I regret the delay in answering both of them.
The management of Canadian National Railways now advises as follows. Reduction in the personnel employed by the railway for repair and servicing of rolling stock is explained by the dieselization of motive power, the cumulative effect of improvement in design and construction, increased capacity of freight cars, improvement in repair methods and practices, and the acquisition of much new equipment. As a point for repair and servicing of locomotives and cars Port Mann has been affected by the efforts of the management to maintain a proper balance between rolling stock and repair expenses and the volume of traffic. In effecting this reduction in personnel the legitimate interest of each employee affected has been properly protected in accordance with the governing wage agreement, and discussions have been held with the representatives of the appropriate labour organizations.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the hon. member for Northumberland-Miramichi (Mr. Me William), in his capacity as chairman of the committee on privileges and elections. When is it intended to have the committee meet to deal with that part of its terms of reference which has to do with the studying of redistribution?


Mr. Speaker, I expect the committee will meet within a few days, after the steering committee is called together to decide on a date.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.


334. Departmental administration, $1,546,388.
(Translation) :
Mr. Chairman, when the
Supply-Post Office
house adjourned last evening, I was dealing with the Post Office Department's plan to build a new post office building in the city of Quebec, at a place which I held to be unsuitable, for the very good reason that it was by no means in line with the recommendations of the town planning committee which had already set out a plan calling for the elimination of the block of buildings where the Post Office Department now intends to build. This plan would have had the effect of easing cross-town traffic conditions in Quebec city.
Mr. Chairman, there is no lack of suitable property for the construction of this building in Quebec city. In fact, does not the federal government own the property situate right by the one which has just been purchased and which, to my mind, would be a far more practical and adequate location for this new post office? Moreover, location on this site would not oppose the plans made by the town planning committee to improve traffic conditions in the lower part of Quebec city.
I would not like to be misunderstood in what I was saying yesterday. I was asking that the owners of these buildings, and more particularly those who live in any of these houses, be given sufficient time to move away.
This does not mean that I am opposed to the building of a new post office in Quebec city. On the contrary, I hope it will be built as soon as possible, and that it will serve to give some little work to the jobless, though it cannot be said, of course, that such a project is in itself sufficient to solve the very serious unemployment problem in Quebec city.
I do feel, however, that in all fairness the department should give sufficient notice to the present occupants of this property. This would only be in accordance with the law. Although I am not a lawyer, I have looked into the matter and I am told that whenever an eviction notice is served upon a tenant, at least 30 days' notice is required. In this case, barely three weeks' notice was given, probably in contravention of the law. As a matter of fact if these people are not out of their homes by Tuesday next, that is by May 31, they will be subject to prosecution.
I am therefore asking the government to reconsider this notice of eviction, and to give these owners of commercial premises, as well as those who occupy dwellings on this property, enough time to find new quarters.

Supply-Post Office
(Text) :
Can the Acting Postmaster General or the parliamentary assistant give us the assurance that this project of a new post office in Quebec city will be given more consideration as far as a site is concerned, so the recommendations of the town planning committee will be implemented? Can the Acting Postmaster General or the parliamentary assistant give us this assurance that more consideration will be given as far as the site is concerned? As I said a few minutes ago in French, the government owns another lot which is very near the one on which-


Mr. Chairman, it is not necessary for the hon. gentleman to repeat to me in English what he has already said in French. I was listening to him.


I thought it would be useful.


I can give no such
assurance. It would be quite improper for me to do so. If on the estimates of the Minister of Public Works the hon. gentleman wishes to put his question to the minister who would select a site if such a building were to be built, I have no doubt he will receive an answer. But as I explained to the committee yesterday on two or three occasions, it is not within the purview of the Post Office Department to select these sites. We express certain views about them but we do not select them. That is the business of another department of government.


I believe the acting minister can also recommend. If he cannot give me that assurance, or if he cannot give me a definite answer, maybe if he asks the deputy minister he might be able to give this assurance right now. Nevertheless, Mr. Chairman-
(Translation) :
Those were the few remarks I intended to make during the present debate and notwithstanding the various impertinent quali-ficatives which were attached to the speech I made last night and which I heard, I am perfectly at peace with myself since I am fully convinced that I fulfilled faithfully my duty in that respect. I was not elected to shower flattery upon the Liberal government when it acts contrary to the proper administration of a department and thus work against the interests of the country at large and in particular against those of the constituents which it is my privilege to represent. (Text):


Mr. Chairman, I wish to
say about two sentences immediately about

the first part of the speech delivered last evening by the hon. member for Quebec West. I think every other member of this house will regret the reflections made by the hon. member upon the competence and sense of responsibility of the Postmaster General, and made in his absence. We on this side of the house-and particularly those of us who are on the treasury benches-know perfectly well how conscientiously and how devotedly the Postmaster General attended to all the duties of his department.


That is exactly what I
said.


It was a totally unwarranted suggestion that the Postmaster General does not-


Mr. Chairman-


-carry on his duties and exercise his ministerial functions himself. That is an unwarranted suggestion by any member of the House of Commons.


Mr. Chairman, on a question of privilege may I say that I do not think the minister has a right to attribute to me words that I have not used. He claims to say to this committee and to the Canadian people that the hon. member for Quebec West has chosen a time when the Postmaster General is not in the chamber in order to attack him. I want to ask the Acting Postmaster General to have a good look-and I only hope he can read-at what I said yesterday. If he does so he will find that I only said I had the greatest sympathy for the Postmaster General, who is obliged to work under such circumstances. I just said, Mr. Chairman, that I was sorry to see that the Postmaster General did not have the authority he was supposed to have in his own department, and that he only had to go by what the deputy minister was saying.


Mr. Chairman, the hon.
gentleman's words speak for themselves.


They certainly do.


I have no intention of
misrepresenting them or of interpreting them.
While I am on my feet I should like to say something about what was said yesterday by my hon. friend from Kootenay East and several other hon. members, because this is the only point raised so far that I intend to deal with. The others will be dealt with by the parliamentary assistant.
My hon. friend the Minister of Finance, my hon. friend the Secretary of State and I received a delegation this morning from the postal workers' brotherhood of Canada,

who made representations on the subject on which the hon. member for Kootenay East and several other hon. members spoke yesterday. We undertook to give those representations the most sympathetic consideration. At the same time we had a brief discussion about this question that was raised by two or three hon. members yesterday, regarding supervisory letter carriers. I understand that this delegation or certain members of it intend to have a discussion with the officials of the department with a view to ironing out any misunderstandings or difficulties that may exist in connection with the matter. We hope it will be worked out satisfactorily.


On a question of privilege,
Mr. Chairman, may I say this so there will be no misunderstanding in this chamber, especially by the Acting Postmaster General who listened to my speech in French last night. I should like to read a few sentences of what I said-


Oh, oh.


-so he will be aware of it.


Order. I have already
heard the question of privilege raised by the hon. member for Quebec West, and I think it has been adequately disposed of. I do not think I can hear further elaboration of the same question.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Chairman. Did I understand the minister to say that we are unworthy members of parliament if we And fault with the actions of the deputy minister?


No, sir, I said nothing of
the kind.
(Translation) :


Mr. Chairman, I would like to say a word or two on the subject of the future post office in order to set in their true light the facts stated last night by my friend, the hon. member for Quebec West (Mr. Dufresne).
For about two or three years, with other members from my district, I have been doing my best to get the Post Office Department and the customs division to erect in Quebec buildings befitting that city and suitable for the work performed.
Looking around the main railway station in Quebec city, we can see the site mentioned by my friend, where a block of houses burned down two or three years ago. To visitors arriving in Quebec city at the main station, it presents a scene of destruction reminiscent of bomb-gutted cities of Europe.
50433-263J
Supply-Post Office
About that time the city of Quebec homologated the buildings concerned, i.e., the owners were advised that sooner or later they would have to go and that any improvements they might make in the meantime to the buildings, etc., would not be taken into account in the assessment of the property, because the city of Quebec already had some plans with regard to that site. Because of this homologation, the Canadian government approached the authorities of the city of Quebec in order to ascertain if they were ready to allow the federal government to put up the building.
Negotiations were lengthy and finally, last summer, after I had obtained the Prime Minister's authorization and after the hon. member for Levis (Mr. Bourget) had received confirmation from the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Winters), we met with the authorities of the city of Quebec, including His Worship Wilfrid Hamel, the city engineer and other officials, and we agreed that the government would release certain lots for the broadening of St. Paul street, and would, for its part-


Would the hon. member allow me to ask a question? Where are the certain lots he is talking about?


On St. Paul
street.


On St. Paul street, in Quebec city?


Precisely, and that the city, for its part, would close off Marquette street, so that adjoining properties which belong to the federal government, as they are C.N.R. property, would also be included in the expropriated land or in the land which will be taken over by the federal government. The negotiations were friendly, and an agreement was finally reached but, for some reasons-


May I ask another question? When those discussions were held between the representatives of the federal government and of the city of Quebec, were the members of the town planning committee, which already had a project on hand, invited too?


My answer will be quite short. The federal government does not have to do business with local committees, not with the town planning committee any more than with the garbage collection committee or the roads committee. Constitution-

Supply-Post Office
ally speaking, we have to deal with the authorities representing the voters of Quebec city, that is the mayor of Quebec, Mr. Hamel, and the aldermen.
We came to an agreement with the mayor and his engineer. Negotiations were discontinued, probably because of the obstacles set in the way of the agreement by people who support the opinion of my hon. friend. Finally, in January 1955, the Minister of Public Works received the following letter, a copy of which I shall now read:
(Text):
Honourable Robert H. Winters,
Minister of Public Works,
Ottawa.
Honourable Sir:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter of January 18 concerning the land required by the federal government as the site for the extension of the new post office at Quebec city.
After perusal of your letter I am glad that all the persons concerned have now reached an understanding and will maintain the agreement concluded in my office when Mr. Maurice Bourget, member for Levis, the Hon. C. G. Power and Messrs. Drolet and Gardner-
They are officers of the department.
^discussed this matter with me as explained in my letter of December 28, 1954.
(Translation):
Therefore, as far as the federal government is concerned, he had the approval of-
(Text):


The letter is signed by whom?


Wilfrid Hamel, mayor of Quebec City. In so far as the federal government are concerned, they did business with the constituted authorities of the city of Quebec, not with any committees set up either by the council or anybody else. The city council apparently has approved of the action of the mayor; therefore the federal government has proceeded with the expropriation of the property.
I come to another subject raised by my hon. friend, and rightly, namely the brevity of time given in the notice to evacuate.
(Translation):
In that connection, I received a letter from my electors telling me that they were shocked that such a short notice should have been served. On that score, my hon. friend may be right. However, I would point out to this committee that for the last two or three years these people were subject to be notified at any time to vacate the premises. I then got

in touch with government authorities here, that is with the minister, his parliamentary assistant and the chief architect, after which I sent this answer to the people who had written me:
Brousseau & Frferes I.tee,
320-324 St. Paul street,
Quebec, Que.
Gentlemen:
I acknowledge receipt of your letter of May 9 in which you had enclosed a petition signed by the landlords and tenants of the premises expropriated by the Department of Public Works, for the building of a post office, on Henderson, St. Paul and Ramsay streets.
I must tell you that 1 am urging the Department of Public Works to proceed with the projected works as soon as possible. After conferring with the department officials I find that if the conclusions of your investigations were taken into favourable consideration, . . .
May I say here, by the way, that those gentlemen had been asking to be allowed six months before moving out.
. . . the work on the post office requested by the workers of the city of Quebec, as well as by their representatives, would be delayed for at least a year.
I am informed that the preliminary steps to be taken, such as the transfer of the vacated properties to the Crown Assets Disposal Corporation, the calling of tenders for pulling down those buildings by that corporation, preliminary soundings, etc., that are needed before laying the foundations, the calling for tenders for the erection of the building, required under the federal statutes, may very well take several months. Under those circumstances, it is essential that the premises be vacated as soon as possible.
I am nevertheless asking the department to extend the time-limits mentioned in the notice to vacate received by you for a period of time which, frankly, is bound to be short, and always so as not to delay the carrying out of the project.
Following this letter and my representations to the hon. Minister of Public Works, the latter agreed yesterday to extend the time-limit until the end of June. If the work is to start in October or November in Quebec, it is essential that the lots be vacated by June 30 at the latest.
That is the position. At least, that is how I understand it, and I am explaining it to my hon. friend.
(Text):


I have a more or less minor matter to raise, Mr. Chairman, and I do so with some temerity for fear anything one says might be taken as criticism of the minister responsible for this department or of the government, recalling the asperity with which the acting minister rose a few minutes ago. However, I shall risk that and refer to the problem of the speedy and correct delivery of letters.
Before doing that, I have a word of commendation which I should like to express to

the Postmaster General's department for considering the problem of delivering mail on a business delivery basis on Avenue road north. There has been a change here from a residential to a business district. I believe delivery changes have been promised which will supply the business houses there with mail at a reasonably early hour in the morning instead of at two o'clock in the afternoon, which is perhaps sufficient for residential people but which does not permit the proper handling of correspondence in a business establishment.
One appreciates that there will be mistakes and delays in the delivery of mail at all times. There are a great many instances which come to the attention of members, and perhaps it is appropriate at this time to draw attention to one mistake which appears to have been avoidable. I do so just by way of keeping the minister and his associates on the job to see that deliveries are made as quickly, as well and with as few mistakes as possible.
The instance I have in mind is of a letter which was sent by trans-Atlantic air mail, addressed to 1525 Closse street, apartment 1, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. This letter was returned to the sender in London stamped, "Undelivered for the reason stated; returned to sender". Then there is an indistinct stamp saying "Place of destination required". I always thought Montreal was a place of destination. I would have thought any postal clerk would have regarded Montreal as a place of destination. In any event the letter was returned to the sender, put in an air mail envelope, addressed in the same way and delivered promptly to the party for whom it was intended. That is perhaps an extreme case, but that is an instance where there was no excuse for failure, which anyone recognizes must occur from time to time.
I should like to draw to the attention of the acting minister one or two things I can perhaps state at this time and which he can answer at his leisure, because I appreciate they may involve some research. The questions are as follows: What firm has the contract at present for the printing of Canadian postage stamps? How long has that firm enjoyed the contract? When were tenders last called for the letting of such contracts? Finally, what other Canadian firms are there capable of performing this service?


I have just a word to say, Mr. Chairman, about the speech delivered last night by the hon. member for Quebec West. If he puts the deputy postmaster general in the same category as all the great Canadians
Supply-Post Office
whom he has attacked with such acrimony, he pays him a signal tribute.


I
wonder if it might not make the debate more orderly if I were to take a few moments now to answer some of the queries put forward last night. Perhaps it would save some hon. member from asking the same questions. First may I, on behalf of the Postmaster General, extend thanks to hon. members for their sympathetic and courteous comments regarding his health. May I say also that I, too, look forward most eagerly to his early return.
Many suggestions were made by the various speakers, all of which will be given serious consideration; and where it is found that action can reasonably be taken in the interests of the public service, this will be done. May I take just a few moments to refer briefly to a few of the matters on which I am able to comment at the moment.
The hon. member for Three Rivers referred to the service to suburban areas around the large cities. I am advised it is not always practical to give letter carrier service immediately because many of the necessary conditions may not have been met. In many cases the department has taken care of this problem in the suburban areas by the installation of group boxes, which will provide for the postal needs of these areas until such time as the various requirements for letter carrier delivery have been met.
The hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam suggested that something should be done about the rather rapid turnover of employees in the Post Office Department. Not long after he spoke someone brought to my attention an article appearing in the May issue of the magazine Personnel. This article states that the average turnover for shop trades is 13-8 per cent; for non-professional clerical and administrative staff, 14-4 per cent; and in what is termed as sub-professional staff, 32 per cent. In the Post Office Department, other than retirement, we have an annual turnover of only 4-3 per cent for permanent employees and 15 per cent for temporary employees. Thus I do not feel that the Post Office Department has a very large turnover in comparison with industry and business generally.
The hon. member also made representations on behalf of the postmaster at Port Moody, in connection with the disappearance of $500 of post office funds. All I can say here is that the department must take disciplinary action where a postal official fails to protect public funds.
The hon. member for New Westminster dealt with the question of mail couriers. In

Supply-Post Office
his particular riding the situation is rather difficult because of the heavy population. The services are, however, advertised and tenders are submitted. Payment is made in accordance with the contract. If any particular contractor has had an unusual development in his area the department of course is always willing to renegotiate. My hon. friend referred to some rural mail couriers who work as much as 16 hours daily. If he will be kind enough to submit the particular case or cases where a man or men are working 16 hours per day I can assure him we shall be only too glad to make inquiries. This would seem to indicate that these particular routes should be divided.
He referred also to letter carriers doing work for which they received no pay, that is doing work as he called it in extra or spare time. In computing the time of the letter carrier the department not only takes into account the time he takes in serving his route, but also the time taken to prepare and handle his mail in the office.
My hon. friend also refers to the handling of certain items by the carriers in New Westminster. In this connection I would point out that carriers are not required to handle any parcel or book which weighs two pounds or more and that, further, their bundles are taken out for them and delivered at points on their route. As a matter of fact there is an average of over four relay boxes per letter carrier route in New Westminster, a rate that is higher than in most other cities in Canada. If any carrier considers that his walk is overly heavy or onerous, or he is unable properly to perform his duty within 40 hours a week, he may always make representations to his postmaster and the matter will be studied.
My hon. friend also referred to the periodical checks of letter carrier routes and indicated that these checks take place in July. I am informed that these checks take place twice yearly, one in the month of March and one in the month of August, so as to get an equitable picture. Again, if any letter carrier feels that his route is too onerous he may appeal to his postmaster and have the case investigated.
There was one reference I could not understand, and that was to letter carriers being "docked" $20 per month for clothing. I am sure my hon. friend would want me to correct him on that point. Uniforms are supplied to the letter carriers, without any cost to them. As a matter of fact, in addition to the uniforms they are given a cash allowance each year to enable them to provide suitable boots.

As I understood the remarks of the hon. member for Vancouver East, there were two points at issue; (1) the receipt of magazines which he did not order, and (2) requests from the agents of the publishers for the payment of an amount relating to these magazines.
In regard to the first point, all my hon. friend, or any person who finds himself in a similar position, has to do is to mark the newspaper or magazine "refused" and hand it back to the post office. The post office will then return it to the publisher; and if after the first notification additional copies are received, these will also be returned and postage collected from the publisher in each individual case.
As regards the correspondence between my hon. friend and the publishers, this is a personal matter. The Post Office Department does not censor any mail and therefore does not know the contents of letters travelling between the senders and the addressees. Of course that being so, it is obvious that no action can be taken by the department unless a complaint is made and the supporting information given. At this time may I thank the hon. member for Nicolet-Yamaska for his comments concerning the decision in the Quebec courts, to the effect that a contract cannot be a unilateral proposition.
In regard to my hon. friend from Kootenay West, the point he raises has been dealt with in my remarks to the hon. member for New Westminster.
In reply to the representations made by my hon. friend from Kootenay East, I would point out that there are two classes of postal clerks, grade 1 and grade 2. Some of the positions in the smaller offices are classified as grade 1, on the ground that the postal knowledge required in these centres is not as involved and complex as in the larger cities. I understand that following a recent convention the employees' association is making representations in this connection, and the matter will be given due consideration when these representations are studied, after having been received.
Then the hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace made reference to the estimate of additional revenue in connection with the 5-cent postage. We estimated at the time that we should break even for the fiscal year 1954-55. I stated yesterday that we have what I called an apparent surplus of approximately $5 million, accounted for mainly by the following:
1.	There has been an increase in volume which was not anticipated a year ago.
2.	Certain accounts for items supplied in
1954-	55 will not be paid until the fiscal year
1955-	56, and

3.	As he intimated, by efficient operation and careful arrangement of the service, the department has been able to effect financial savings.
In regard to the question of annual leave for letter carriers, I would say that the Acting Postmaster General made reference to that matter a few moments ago.
Then reference was made to the savings which could be effected by the discontinuance of the post office savings bank. While the annual cost to the department is estimated at $377,000, this amount could not all be saved if the savings bank was discontinued, because in this amount is a proportion of the salaries of operating employees and a proportion of the cost of buildings and equipment. The actual headquarters cost is in the neighbourhood of $150,000. I think in considering this matter one should give consideration to the following points:
1.	There are many Canadian citizens who prefer the post office savings bank to the chartered banks.
2.	That by having a post office savings bank we are able to give banking facilities to military camps and certain remote areas.
3.	That the savings bank provides the government of Canada with approximately $40 million at a low rate of interest.
With regard to my hon. friend's suggestion in regard to twice-a-day delivery for only five days a week, there are two points which came to my mind. One, it is not possible to give ten deliveries for the same cost as six. Appreciable additional expenditure would therefore be involved. Secondly, I doubt very much whether the public would welcome their mail being held from Friday afternoon until Monday morning and even Tuesday morning, when Monday happens to be a statutory holiday. There is also the possibility, may I say the probability, of congestion in the post office, as well as the inordinate amount of mail which the letter carriers would consequently have to handle on Monday mornings.
My hon. friend referred to his question being changed to an order for a return, and also to the time it has taken to give the information for which he asked. Had his question simply related to the date, the place and the amount of the loss it would have been a very simple question to answer, but he also asked whether court action had been instituted against specific individuals, and what was the result of such action, if any, in each case. This obviously necessitated a check of each file and in some cases the obtaining of information from the district offices as to the action which had taken place.
Supply-Post Office
The information has been obtained and, as hon. members know, the return was tabled this afternoon.
If my hon. friend is interested in the activities of the department from the standpoint of offences, prosecutions and results, may I refer him to page 5 of the Postmaster General's report for the year ended March 31, 1954, which was tabled early in January of this year.
The hon. member for Selkirk brought up the matter of mail delivery. We appreciate the difficult situation in which the people in the Norway House area find themselves from the standpoint of mail service, particularly during the break-up and freeze-up periods. The matter is being reviewed, and I can assure my hon. friend that it will have careful consideration.
He also made reference to li cent stamps. There is no such thing as a l\ cent stamp, but there is a bulk rate of 1J cents per item in connection with "householder" mail. The postage of these items is paid in bulk on the total number of items. This rate is given when the items are not individually addressed and which are therefore delivered much cheaper than is the case when an individual item must be delivered to a specific individual address. This service is available to all patrons who wish to have it.
The hon. member for Middlesex East showed his interest in the department by referring to the transportation of mail by means of highway post offices. This method of transportation has been adopted in many instances in the United States. It is more suitable to their method of operating, on account of the heavy volume of mails carried. However, the department has been watching this development with interest for some time. As a matter of fact some of our inspectors have travelled on the highway post offices in the United States, and I can assure my hon. friend that when the time arrives that this type of equipment can be used with advantage to the service, and from the standpoint of economy, further consideration will be given to the utilization of this and similar equipment.
May I thank the hon. member for Danforth for his complimentary remarks in regard to the postal service, and at the same time would mention that most of the figures he was quoting related to the fiscal year 1953-54, whereas in my opening comments yesterday I related my figures to the fiscal year 1954-55. I should also like to point out to him that the report for the fiscal year 1953-54 was tabled in January of this year.
I think, Mr. Chairman, I have covered in a general way the comments and suggestions

Supply-Post Office
made by the various hon. members who have taken part in this discussion.
Any individual cases which I have been unable to touch upon will be given the benefit of detailed study. With regard to the questions of the hon. member for St. Paul's, I wonder whether he would be good enough to send us the two covers to which he referred. I cannot give him full details regarding his question about the contract for postage stamps, but I can tell him that they are printed by the Canadian Bank Note Company; that the Minister of Finance calls for tenders, and that I think the contract is generally for a term of four years. The last tenders were called for some three years ago.


May I ask the parliamentary assistant one question. Is the Post Office Department making representations or recommendations to the Department of Public Works to provide a new post office in Selkirk?


This is one of these specific questions with respect to which in the time between ten o'clock last night and a quarter to four this afternoon I have not yet had an opportunity to study the file.


I do not blame the parliamentary assistant in any way, but the department has been asked for it for four years.


say I have not had a chance to look at the file. If the hon. member will give me until next week, after I return from Manitoba, I shall certainly have a look at it.


With respect to the question I raised relative to the hours of labour that are put in by some of these mail couriers, if the parliamentary assistant will turn to page 4134 of Hansard of yesterday he will see that I was referring to the holiday season only, not to the full year. This is the time these men require additional help in the sortation of mail.


Thank you.


Mr. Chairman, at this time I should like to make a few remarks about the postal service in Toronto-Rosedale. I think it is important to demonstrate at the outset that the representations have come to me and have been made in a community service and non-partisan spirit. The area concerned is the Yonge-Bay-Bloor district of Toron