I have the honour to inform the house that I have received the following communication:
Government House,
Ottawa, 31st March, 1955.
Sir:
I have the honour to inform you that the Honourable Patrick Kerwin, Chief Justice of Canada, acting as Deputy of His Excellency the Governor General, will proceed to the Senate chamber on Thursday, the 31st March, at 9.45 p.m., for the purpose of giving the royal assent to certain bills.
I have the honour to be, sir,
Your obedient servant,
J. F. Delaute,
Secretary to the Governor General (Administrative).


Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege, I feel it appropriate that I should deal with this matter in the House of Commons in view of the fact that a statement appears in the press today relating to something I said in the house the day before yesterday. It is stated that I indicated I believed there should be restrictions on the free exchange of views between nations. The statement refers to remarks I made expressing the hope that the Right Hon. Clement Attlee was not coming here under the auspices of a political party to engage in Canadian political affairs.
I can assure hon. members to the left, as well as other hon. members, that no one in Canada will join in a warmer welcome to the Right Hon. Clement Attlee any time he comes here as a distinguished citizen of Great Britain. He deserves our recognition of his great service during and since the war. But I pointed out at that time not that there should be any restriction on anyone expressing his views but rather that there is a tradition which has not been broken since confederation, that the head of the government and the leader of the opposition-always 50433-163
a possible occupant of the position of prime minister-should not engage in the political activities of other nations of the commonwealth because of the fact that as heads of governments they may be dealing with heads of other governments, and should be free from political entanglements.
I certainly did not criticize Mr. Attlee, nor did I criticize the C.C.F. party for extending the invitation. I expressed the hope that the report was incorrect, and I would still hope that the Right Hon. Clement Attlee, one of the most distinguished Britons of these days, would not break a tradition that goes back to confederation and which is based on extremely sound grounds for the reasons I have indicated.


May
I say to the Leader of the Opposition that I think it would be well to reserve any criticisms that he feels he should make until Mr. Attlee is in the country and we have had an opportunity to hear what he has to say.


Mr. Speaker, following the questions asked in the house yesterday by the hon. member for Peel and the hon. member for York West regarding future lay-offs of workers at the Avro plant, and also questions put to me outside the house by the president of the Trades * and Labour Congress of Canada, the Minister of Defence Production and I have agreed that this brief statement should be made in the house today.
As hon. members know, the Avro company has for some time been producing planes of the type known as the CF-100 to fill orders to meet the requirements of the Department of National Defence. Having regard to the number of these planes now required and on order, the company has found it necessary to put into effect a progressive cutback in the rate of production which will involve a reduction of the company's work force by approximately 1,000 men over the three-month period of May, June and July next.
I am advised that the new production schedule which is planned will become effective after the annual holiday period in the plant in August. The company is engaged in

A.	V. Roe Company-Lay-offs engineering and advance planning work on a new plane, but a considerable period of time must necessarily elapse before actual production of this plane can be expected.
When the representatives of the workers at Avro met with the Minister of Defence Production and myself early in the year they expressed criticism of the very short notice that had been given with regard to the layoffs that had taken place just after Christmas. Because of this the delegation was informed that the Avro company would be given the necessary information to enable advance notice to be given to the workers with regard to any future lay-offs. That is why the present notices have been sent out as far in advance of the actual lay-off dates as possible.
The national employment service will obtain immediately full particulars of those who are to be laid off and their qualifications, and I can assure the house that every effort will be made by that service to assist them to find new employment.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs arising out of an answer given by the Minister of Labour in connection with the employment situation at A. V. Roe. Does the cutback in A. V. Roe employment in connection with the production of the CF-100 indicate that the member countries of NATO-


Question.


are not interested in this plane for augmenting their air squadrons?


I was not able to catch the last part of the question. Perhaps my hon. friend would repeat it.


If the minister's friends would be quiet for a minute, he would be able to hear it.


It should be on the order paper, anyway.


Does the cutback in the production of CF-lOO's at A. V. Roe indicate that the member nations of NATO are not interested in this plane for augmenting their air squadrons?


I do not think that question needs to be answered by me, Mr. Speaker. It probably concerns the Minister of Defence Production, if anybody, but there is certainly no indication that any member of NATO is

not interested in any piece of Canadian equipment which would aid in the collective defence.
[Later:!


I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Defence Production. Has the minister any knowledge of any orders for CF-100 planes from any of the nations in NATO?


I know of no orders from any nation other than Canada.


In
accordance with an undertaking given by the Minister of Finance yesterday I am tabling herewith photostatic copies of the rental agreement and subsequent purchase agreement in respect of the building occupied by the R.C.M.P. in Overbrook.


1.	Has the Canadian National Railways decided to close the railway stations at St. Stanislas and St. Adelphe, in the county of Champlain, Ste. Elizabeth, in the county of Joliette, Ste. Perpetue, in the county of Kamouraska, St. Joseph du Lac, in the county of Nicolet, and Villemontel, in the county of Abltibi?
2.	Has the Canadian National Railways decided to cancel the day train between Quebec city and Garneau, via St. Prosper?
3.	If so, will steps be taken to protect the travelling public of the said localities?


The Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
1.	A decision has been made to close the agency and appoint a caretaker at Ste. Perpetue, county of Kamouraska, and application will be made to the board of transport commissioners for the necessary authority.
No decision has been taken in respect of the other agencies mentioned.
2.	Canadian National Railways trains 697 and 698 operating between Quebec city and Garneau via St. Prosper have been cancelled, effective February 27, 1955.
3.	There is frequent and adequate highway service in the area so that public convenience is protected.

25S3
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND HOSPITAL GRANTS Mr. Kickham:
What federal grants have been made to each of the hospitals in the province of Prince Edward Island?


Under the national health grants program, federal grants have been made to the following hospitals in Prince Edward Island:
(a) Under the hospital construction grant:
Amount of grant
Western Memorial hospital,
Alberton	 $	8,280.25
Charlottetown hospital, Charlottetown	 88,139.67
Falconwood hospital, Charlottetown	 133,790.00
Prince Edward Island hospital,
Charlottetown	 20,000.00
Kings County Memorial hospital, Montague	 8,500.00
Prince County hospital, Summerside	 188,554.65
Stewart Memorial health
centre, Tyne valley	 8,000.00
Charlottetown health centre,
Charlottetown	 5,996.27
(b) Under the other federal health grants:
Expenditures
Falconwood mental hospital,
Charlottetown	 $ 102,470.00
Provincial sanatorium, Charlottetown	 105,450.00


1.	Is Canada supplying goods intended to aid in the rehabilitation of Korea?
2.	If so, under what program or programs is such aid supplied?
3.	What is the value of goods shipped for such purpose by calendar years since the beginning of the Korean war?
4.	Is the government considering substantially increasing its economic assistance to aid in Korean rehabilitation?
5.	Has the government any information with respect to Korean profiteers preventing the proper distribution of United States' aid intended to facilitate Korean rehabilitation?
6.	Is the government aware of any such incidents involving Canadian aid?
7.	If so, what steps has the government taken to ensure that any economic aid does, in fact, achieve its purpose?


1.	Yes. The government of Canada has aided Korean relief and rehabilitation by making available financial assistance and gifts of codfish. A substantial part of the financial support has been spent on Canadian goods.
50433-163i
Questions
2.	The financial assistance in 1 above was given to the United Nations Korean reconstruction agency which was established by the United Nations general assembly in 1950 in order to assist in the long-range rehabilitation of the Korean economy. The Canadian salted cod was donated to the United Nations emergency relief program which is carried out by the United Nations command and which provides immediate aid in the form of food, clothing, etc.
3.	A Canadian cash contribution of $7,250,000 was made to UNKRA in March, 1951. The first contribution of salted cod, valued at $300,000, was made in the fall of 1953. A second contribution, valued at $450,000, was made in the spring of 1954.
4.	The Canadian government has recommended that an additional cash contribution of $500,000 be made to UNKRA for its current financial year. This recommendation was approved by the House of Commons on March 25, 1955. No consideration is being given to further contributions at this time.
5.	The Canadian government is not in a position to answer a question of this kind which concerns matters falling within the jurisdiction of the United States and Korean governments.
6.	No.
7.	-


1. By provinces, how much has been paid to the institutions of higher learning under vote No. 119 in the 1954-55 estimates?
2. By provinces, what	were the number of	
students deemed eligible	for calculation	in connection with vote No. 119 in	the 1954-55 estimates?


(i)	(2)
	Payments	Number
	to eligible	of eligible
	institutions	students
Newfoundland 	$ 199,000	505Prince Edw. Island ..	52,500	245Nova Scotia 	336,500	3,948New Brunswick . . ..	273,500	2,231Quebec 	-	-Ontario 	2,523,000	17,896Manitoba 	414,000	4,171Saskatchewan 	439,000	2,694Alberta 	519,500	3,297British Columbia . . . .	633,000	6,005
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT AIRDROMES Mr. MacLean:
1. How many airdromes operated by the Department of Transport employ ground-controlled approach (G.C.A.) equipment?

Inquiries of the Ministry
2. How many airdromes operated by the Department of Transport are equipped with high intensity lighting?


1.	4.
2.	6.
Note: The foregoing do not include airports which are municipally operated or military airports used by civil aviation.


On the orders of the day:
May
I ask the Prime Minister or the Minister of National Revenue whether the government intends to appoint a commission to consider bringing Canadian radio and television broadcasting under an independent regulatory tribunal or body, as recommended yesterday by the advisory council of the national Liberal federation, whose committee on resolutions was presided over by the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration (Mr. Pickersgill)?


I have not yet received the
resolution.
tL ater:]
On the orders of the day:


May I ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration if he will be good enough to communicate to the Prime Minister the resolution to which I referred earlier, so we may ask the Prime Minister whether the commission will be appointed by the government as proposed by the national Liberal federation?


I know of no competence I have in this matter.


Or any other.

On the orders of the day:


wonder if the Prime Minister would advise the house whether, having regard to the experience with radio, he considers an independent board desirable or necessary?


My personal opinion is that it is not desirable nor necessary, but that is my personal opinion. As I recollect the terms of the Massey report there was a recommendation that after a period a further examination be made of the question, but I am still
[Mr. MacLean.l
more impressed by the recommendations of the majority of that commission than by the minority report.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. I wonder if, in view of the reports of what he said last night, he would regard the reports of the dominion bureau of statistics concerning the employment situation in the textile, electrical, footwear and other industries, as undermining public confidence?


I would hope not, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
In
the absence of the Minister of National Defence I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In the light of the answer given yesterday to the hon. member for Kootenay West, can the Prime Minister tell me if it is now the intention of the government to have Iceland defend the northern frontiers of Canada, in view of reports appearing in the newspapers?
Right Hon. L. S. St. Laurent (Prime
Minister): I have never heard the suggestion and I am sure, from the relations I have had with the government of Iceland, that they will make no such suggestion to us.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare? In view of the resolution passed yesterday by the advisory council of the national Liberal federation, will the government proceed soon with the introduction of national health insurance?


I am not quite as busy as the Prime Minister, and on that account I have had a chance to see this resolution. My hon. friend asked me the same question last

year, and my reply then was that this government and the actions of the national Liberal federation are always consistent.


Will that still be the reply 36 years from now?


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the adequate supply of natural gas in Alberta, and in view of the willingness of private interests to construct a pipe line to Winnipeg, how long is he going to deny the citizens of Winnipeg the use of natural gas?


The hon. member has based his question on information that is not in my possession. I am afraid I cannot answer his question.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the very great and natural interest shown throughout the whole of Canada, and particularly in western Canada, in regard to prospects for the transmission of gas from the Alberta fields, may I ask if it is the intention of the minister before he leaves for Australia to give a statement to this house in regard to the present situation, informing us what are the facts, in the light of certain statements that have already been issued by one of the companies primarily concerned, and others?


I am hardly in a position to make a statement of that kind. Trans-Canada Pipe Lines are still carrying on with their project. They have negotiations under way in several quarters. I had an interview a day or two ago with some of the directors, and they gave me certain information which I would not feel free to pass along at this stage. However, I can assure hon. members that as soon as there is a positive statement to be made I shall be very glad to make it. But to report on negotiations now in progress would be hardly fair to the directors of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines.
Inquiries of the Ministry TRADE


On the orders of the day:
May I
ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce what arrangements are being made for the printing of copies of the documents he tabled in the house on Monday pertaining to the trade agreements reached at Geneva, so hon. members may have copies for study as soon as possible.


I shall have to accept that question as notice. It is my impression arrangements have been made for printing the documents, but I would have to check with my office to make sure.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Monday the hon. member for Inverness-Richmond (Mr. Mac-Eachen) asked whether a date had been selected for the official opening of the Canso causeway. I should now like to inform him and other hon. members that, upon the recommendation of a committee consisting of representatives of the government of Nova Scotia, the Canadian National Railways and my department, August 13 has been definitely set for the opening ceremonies.
It was considered that the formal opening of the causeway would be a fitting climax to the tourist season in Nova Scotia, and if held on that date would not interfere with other events such as the gathering of the clans of Pugwash, the highland games at Antigonish, the Gaelic Mod at St. Anns and the Acadian bicentenary at Grand Pre and Annapolis Royal.
It is our intention to allow highway traffic to use the causeway as soon as the swing bridge over the canal has been completed and the other work has reached a stage where this traffic will not interfere unduly with construction activities.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question of the Minister of Finance? Has he received requests that all social welfare organizations

War Veterans Allowance Act be made eligible for sales tax refunds, and if so is he giving consideration to such requests?


I think this request has been made at least in each of the last seven years to the Minister of Finance.


Is the minister giving consideration to the matter between now and Tuesday night?


The house resumed, from Wednesday, March 30, consideration in committee of Bill No. 164, to amend the War Veterans Allowance Act, 1952-Mr. Lapointe-Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.
On clause 1-Definitions.
Mr. Chairman, when the house adjourned last evening at six o'clock I was making some observations on clause 1 of this bill. I was a member of the committee, and I realize it is the desire of most members of the house to have this bill passed so it may receive royal assent, and so the increased rates may appear in the cheques of recipients of war veterans allowance for the month of April.
May I repeat what I said last night, that in my view the veterans affairs committee should be made a standing committee of the house.


Order.


Am I making too much noise, Mr. Chairman? Perhaps I am disturbing some other discussions. I was saying that the veterans affairs committee should be made a standing committee of the house which could give continuing study to veterans problems as they change from time to time. This will be a continuing question, because we are going to have veterans with us for a long time.
I think the Canadian Legion and the national council of veterans at this session of parliament made perhaps one of the most reasonable presentations ever made in the history of the committee. In my view everything they recommended could have been accepted and included in the bill without increasing the cost of war veterans allowances to any great extent; and I shall try to prove that as I go along.
Both the Legion and the national council recommended $60 per month as a maximum for single veterans and $120 as a maximum for married veterans. The bill now before us

accepts the suggestion of $60 a month for the single veterans, as suggested in the briefs of both organizations, but it does not meet the request for $120 for the married veterans. Under the bill before us the basic maximum for married veterans is $108 per month, but provision is made whereby that $108 can be brought up to $120, through the aid of the assistance fund.
However, to receive a grant under the assistance fund it is necessary to make a second application, and it involves a second means test and investigation before the assistance can be obtained. In my judgment it would have been much cheaper and the mechanics of administration would have been definitely better if the demand of the Legion that the rate be increased to $120 per month for married veterans had been met. I believe this would have prevented many applications for assistance from the fund, and would have obviated the necessity for a lot of administrative work, red tape and investigation. There would not have been many applications for assistance to help those in need, after payment of the $120.
However, those who drafted the bill have not seen fit to follow this suggestion. I realize that anything we may say at this time will not affect the bill. I have in mind, however, that this is a continuing problem, and that if hon. members who sat on the committee and had the opportunity of meeting the officials and listening to statistics express their opinions at this time and have them recorded in Hansard so they may be read on the next occasion upon which this matter is given consideration by the government, those who are considering the matter at such time would have the benefit of those views. I am assuming, of course, that the views expressed will be reasonable and fair. I do not have in mind any wild propaganda statements. It is my desire at this time to try to put the thing in its proper perspective, as I see it, in relation to the representations made by the veterans organizations before the committee. On that particular point the basic rate is set at $120 a month. Having regard to the over-all picture you would spend less money than you are spending now, you would prevent a lot of hardship and require much less paper and administrative work and investigation if the other angle were cleared up.
The second point that was made by both organizations, and I have made it a good many times in the house in the past, has to do with the manner in which the means test for war veterans allowance affects many people across the country who were employed in industry, in the civil service or in other

organizations. They came under superannuation schemes, contributory schemes in industry, and in that way had built up small retiring allowances for themselves that were paid over the years. When they reached the age of 65 and retired, hundreds of them-I know of many in my own part of the country who were employed in the steel and coal industry-received pensions of from $20 a month to a maximum of $70 a month. Very few of them receive $70. The average would be around $40 a month.
Many of these men are veterans. They paid for the pension or retiring allowance they are receiving from industry. By virtue of their age and their service they are qualified to come under the War Veterans Allowance Act. When they make application for war veterans allowance they find that the small retiring allowance they paid for over the years is deducted from the war veterans allowance, and in many instances they cannot obtain it at all.
What the act is doing in this regard is discouraging thrift. I have talked to many veterans during the past 10 years who have told me that they have pulled out of the contributory scheme in their companies, because they would get only so much out of it. They told me they were spending money on it, and if they pulled out of it and did not spend that money, when they readied 60 or 65 years of age they would be eligible for the maximum war veterans allowance. They questioned why they should continue to put their money into the other scheme.
It is very easy to cure that problem. It would not cost the country any money. If the ceiling on permissible income were raised, the man who is receiving a small retiring allowance of $30, $40, or $50 a month, which he has paid for himself, could get both without costing the government anything at all. That should be considered.
The other point about supplementing the war veterans allowance is very good in many respects. I refer now to casual earnings, income permitted under the War Veterans Allowance Act, without interfering with the maximum paid under the act. That is very good and very generous with respect to the veteran who is in condition to take employment. But there are many sections of the country in which the casual earning provision is completely valueless. It is particularly true in my section of the country where there is nothing but heavy industry, coal mining and heavy steel work. There is no possible chance for a veteran who is physically incapacitated, either by age or in some other way, to take employment and obtain casual earnings, because there is no work in that area.
31, 1955	2587
War Veterans Allowance Act
I imagine that is equally true in Hamilton, Windsor and in any section where there is heavy industry. It is all right in Ottawa where a man can get a job as an elevator operator, or in Toronto where a man can go out to the race tracks and earn a certain amount of money. A veteran can be an individual real estate operator so long as he is not working for a company. He can earn money in that way so long as he is working for himself. But in many other sections of the country casual earnings do nothing for the man at all. In these sections the casual earnings are not costing the government anything at all because they are not applicable. The only way you can give relief to recipients of the allowance is by raising the maximum payable under the act. I think $120 is a reasonable target to shoot at.
Another point the Legion and the national council of veterans made, which I think is valid, was that the ceiling on permissive income should be raised to compare favourably with the income tax exemption levels. In addition to the maximum payable under the act, the veteran should be permitted to earn other income, and that would include small pensions and superannuation payments, to an amount equivalent to the income tax level, namely $2,000.
Those organizations asked that the same principle be made applicable to the single veteran, up to $1,200 a year. Their argument on that point was valid also. They pointed out that a married couple are permitted a deduction of $2,000 for income tax purposes. There may be a young veteran who is physically handicapped and who has small children. He is in exactly the same position as the person who gets a $2,000 exemption for income tax purposes. Today his maximum under the act, in regard to permissive earnings, is $1,440 a year. The argument put up by both veterans organizations is valid. We should make the ceiling for permissive income under the act as close to the income tax exemption levels as possible, because the government has already set up that principle in the income tax exemptions.
Another point they made, and I think it is worthy of consideration, was that the allowance for minor children of recipients of the war veterans allowance should compare with the allowance now paid to disability pensioners under the Canadian Pension Act. I do nbt think there should be two classes of citizens, when it comes to payments for children, in the same department of government. That should be straightened out. There should be equality, at least in so far as the children are concerned, in the matter of allowances. The child of a recipient of war veterans allowance

War Veterans Allowance Act and the child of a disability pensioner require exactly the same things. They have to go to school; they require the same clothes; they should have the same nourishment. It is something the government should take a look at, and they should try to wipe out the inequality as soon as possible.
The Legion made another recommendation that I have asked for in the house a good many times without very much effect. It has to do with the veterans who served in world war I and got only as far as England. When we amended the act to make veterans who served in England in world war II eligible for war veterans allowance we should have included veterans of the first great war. I say that for this reason. You meet many veterans across the country who got only as far as England in the first war. England was not considered a theatre of war at that time. Today those men are pretty well worn out; they are broken down, physically incapacitated, and they point out that this is rank discrimination so far as they are concerned. Here is a young veteran who comes back and qualifies by virtue of a physical incapacity. He may be 35 years of age, while I am 65 years of age. We both may have served in the same theatre of war. I cannot understand this differentiation between the first and the second world wars as to what is considered a theatre of war. England was considered to be a theatre of war in the last war, but not in the first war. They say that situation should be cleaned up, and I believe it should. I do not think it would cost a great deal of money.
I would point out that hundreds of thousands of men who served in England during the first war did so because they were ordered to do so. They were in the service to go where they were sent. They performed the duties allocated to them by their officers. Many were technicians, cooks or clerks. When the pay office was set up in London men were kept there. Many vehicle shops were set up and mechanics, machinists and men of that type were kept in England by order of the services. It was not their desire to stay. I know of many in my own unit who were kept there because they had specialized training. Many of them are dead, but some are still living and they think it is rank discrimination to refuse them the benefits of legislation which is applicable to the veteran who served in England during the last war.
I suggest to the parliamentary assistant that when he is going over the legislation for the next parliamentary committee he might sit down and look over this Hansard just to provoke his thought. I have no doubt as to
[Mr. Gillis.l

where the parliamentary assistant stands on these matters. I believe that he, along with every member of this house who is a veteran and is free to express his thoughts, thinks exactly the same on these matters as does the veteran who is affected. I know that when the parliamentary assistant takes a look at these matters he will give a hint to those who have the right to make the financial decisions.
Another outstanding grievance has to do with the widows of imperial veterans. It would not cost much money to correct this matter. I use the term "imperial veteran's widow" advisedly because in the presentation to the committee they used the term "allied veteran's widow". I think the term "allied veteran's widow" as applied to the last war would be pretty broad and would take in some strange countries. I believe the wording should be boiled down to "imperial veteran's widow" because in the years gone by when I was doing a lot of talking about this in the Legion it was the imperial veteran's widow we referred to. We were making our demand that the imperial or commonwealth veteran's widow be taken care of.
At the present time if a widow meets the residence qualification and her husband has passed away before completing 20 years' residence in Canada, she is not entitled to the allowance. You may find one widow living next door to another. The one is receiving an allowance because her husband had completed 20 years' residence in the country, while the other receives no allowance because her husband died four days before completing 20 years' residence. It would not cost a lot of money to correct this. Instead of having the qualification that the husband must complete 20 years' residence in the country we should swing it around and say that if the widow completes 20 years' residence in the country she will qualify. That is the only change that is necessary.
I want to leave just one or two more thoughts with the parliamentary assistant. That completed the representations in connection with the war veterans allowance, but the national council of veterans made one or two recommendations to which I think attention should be drawn. These referred to the Pension Act as such.
The first was that consideration should be given to sections 1 to 11 of the act, which have to do with disability pensioners who may require treatment in a departmental hospital for some disability not related to their pensionable disability. Under the provisions of the act they are obliged to pay for their hospitalization, though at a reduced

rate. They object to having to pay at all, and I agree with them. I suggest that someone should take a look at this.
The second point they made in relation to the Pension Act was in reference to pensioners who go into hospital. Under the act it is the practice to deduct from their pensions $15 per month, and this has particular application to the pensioner in the higher brackets. I do not need to tell hon. members the physical condition of a 100 per cent pensioner. Many of them are blind, while others have lost both legs. When such a man goes into hospital, while he receives treatment he finds his income, which may consist solely of his 100 per cent pension, reduced by $15 per month.
On the other hand when a man with a smaller pension goes into hospital he is immediately placed on a 100 per cent pension and in some cases his income while in hospital will be increased by 15, 20 or 50 per cent. The pensioner in the lower brackets does not suffer under that arrangement because he is compensated for the $15 a month which he loses by the increase in his pension rate brought about by being hospitalized. As I say, the man who is 100 per cent disabled finds his income reduced by $15 a month while in hospital.
I am not going to make any hard-boiled or firm recommendation on this, because I think there are many angles that require consideration. I would suggest that the next time the interdepartmental committee are taking a look at prospective veterans legislation they consider all these problems so that in the foreseeable future we may be able to finally tie up this act and say that we have done a good job, that we have reached the saturation point. I think there comes a time when you do reach that point, but before we tie it up finally with a little bow of red ribbon the matters I have been discussing this afternoon should receive attention and be ironed out.
I am sorry I have taken up so much time.
I think the committee this year was as good as we ever had, but I feel it was a bit restricted because of the terms of reference.
I figured that at times it got into a kind of political shemozzle instead of carrying on as a non-political committee such as it used to be. My final remarks would be to strongly recommend that this committee be made a standing committee of the House of Commons so that when legislation is being contemplated by the government in future the committee could be called together and could sit down and study the legislation and send it back to the government before they decided finally on a bill which might be considered irrevocable.
31, 1955
War Veterans Allowance Act


Mr. Chairman, the consideration of Bill No. 164 by the veterans committee was most enlightening to me, as it was the first time I acted as a member of that committee. I am glad the government has seen fit to introduce this legislation to give further assistance under the war veterans allowance. I was particularly pleased because I had a resolution on the order paper asking that this be done.
In the committee we heard representations from the Canadian Legion, the national council of veterans and the Canadian non-pensioned veterans' widows. I found that those briefs were presented in a most amiable, genial and concise fashion. I would like to congratulate the people who presented the briefs on behalf of those organizations. The departmental officials themselves did not hesitate to give us the answers we asked for, though they were not always the answers for which we hoped. However, they too deserve credit for the frank way in which they responded to our questions.
I was somewhat disappointed in the committee because I had heard so much about the non-partisan way in which it is habitually conducted. I was somewhat taken aback when I found how a particular party voted on a certain portion of the bill. I would very much like to see the committee get back to its original non-partisan nature, and become a committee which recommends legislation that receives the consideration of the government by reason of the fact that it completely expresses the views of the veterans.
I spoke earlier when this legislation was at the resolution stage, and at that time I indicated that I was unhappy with the proposed ceiling levels. The committee did nothing in respect to the representations that were made by the Canadian Legion and the national council, which bodies suggested the ceilings should be higher than those provided in the bill. I find fault with that because it does not take care of certain veterans who are disabled, or who have been thrifty and who stand to lose considerably when this legislation comes into effect. I was very unhappy to see the Liberals as a group vote against the proposed ceilings. Possibly some of the supporters of the government felt as we did, that the proposals we made, despite the terms of reference, should have been included in the recommendations we brought before the house.
There was considerable urgency in respect to the passing of the bill. It was suggested it would come into effect on the first of the month, and therefore it would be effective on the 1st of April. In order to do that it would have to be passed by both chambers, which

War Veterans Allowance Act ' made it necessary to have our views expressed in this chamber as quickly as possible. This appears to be the first opportunity to have been made available, with the result that according to the terms of the bill it probably will not come into effect until the 1st of May.
I abhor such an action, though possibly there were reasons for it. I would suggest that the minister make it retroactive to the beginning of this month in order that the veterans will not suffer as a result of this delay. I hope we can pass it today so that if at all possible it can obtain royal assent this afternoon. In any event, I suggest it should be made retroactive.
The bill leaves an undesirable situation in the case of small disability pensioners. It also penalizes the thrifty veterans who have saved during their lifetime or who have a small superannuation, a small annuity or income from some small investment. The small disability pensioners suffer the most because the bill does not make it possible for them to obtain more than the ceiling allowed under its terms.
By way of comparison, the single veterans who are in a position to obtain casual earnings are granted war veterans allowance of $60 a month. These veterans are permitted casual earnings up to $50 a month and they may have other income of $10 a month if they can prove the need, which gives them a total permissible income of $1,440 a year. The small disability pensioners, on the other hand, are allowed a disability pension of $50 a month. Because the ceiling is set at $840 the maximum war veterans allowance would be $20 a month. They are penalized to the extent that they are permitted a total maximum allowable income of only $840 a year.
Married veterans are permitted casual earnings up to $50 a month and other income of $12 a month, and obtain $108 a month under war veterans allowance. The maximum casual earnings would then be $600 a year. They would have a maximum war veterans allowance of $1,296 a year and at the rate of $12 a month they would have a permissible income of $144, which would give a total income of $2,040 if the veteran were able to obtain casual earnings to that extent.
A married veteran on a small disability pension may receive $50 a month in casual earnings which would give him a total of $600 a year. Because his total permissible income is $1,440 his maximum war veterans allowance would be only $840. This group of veterans are penalized because their total permissible income is $1,440, whereas other

veterans who can obtain casual earnings have a permissible income of $2,040 a year.
The only way to overcome that condition, I would say, is to make it possible to have these ceilings set at $2,000 for the married veteran and $1,200 for the single veteran, as was suggested in the Legion brief. I realize that the small disability pensioner receives $50 in disability pension, but he has no way of obtaining additional earnings. Therefore he must do with $1,440 a year what another veteran who is capable of finding and accepting employment can do with his $2,040 a year. What it actually amounts to is that the single veteran who is eligible for casual earnings and can find a job he is capable of doing is not getting too much, but certainly the man on a small disability pension is getting too little. I earnestly suggest that consideration should be given to that factor. As the hon. member for Cape Breton South said, possibly we should keep that in mind for future legislation, although I would have liked to see it included in the legislation now before us.
Other recommendations were made. I do not intend to deal with each one of them, as did the hon. member for Cape Breton South, in order to indicate my approval or disapproval. As I indicated earlier, the whole brief was well presented and I did not think the veterans were making many unreasonable requests. There may have been one or two things on which I could not quite see eye to eye with them, but in the main their proposals and requests were quite reasonable.
I strongly urge the government to consider the recommendation in respect of widows of imperial war veterans as a matter of some urgency. Some of these veterans who came here 20-odd years ago are no longer living, and their widows do not receive an allowance. I do not see any possible reason for that. If their husbands had lived they would receive the allowance, but because they passed away before the 20-year period had elapsed their widows do not receive any allowance. I urge the government to give serious consideration to this matter and see that it is rectified in the very near future.
I also suggest that there should be a permanent committee on veterans affairs. In my opinion a standing committee on veterans affairs is most important. It is apparent that we will have the veterans with us for a long time, and I do not agree with the practice of setting up a special committee at certain times. Last year the committee was not established until the latter part of the session, and I see no excuse for that. If there were no business for the committee to

consider then it would not have to meet, but there should be such a standing committee.
Another matter has been drawn to my attention that I cannot recall seeing in any of the briefs. It has to do with the burial of former recipients of war veterans allowance. The department now buries only veterans whose estates have a value of $1,000 or less. The department pays $175 toward a casket and $30 to open and close a grave, but no provision is made in these cases for a plot. In the city of Vancouver, Mountain View cemetery charges $95 for a plot and the money is payable in advance. I am thinking more particularly at this time of a widow whose husband was on war veterans allowance and who passed away just a few days ago in Shaughnessy hospital. She finds herself in a very awkward position. She gets $175 toward the expense of a casket and $30 to open and close the grave, but she does not get the $95 with which to buy a plot, and the money for the plot must be paid in advance.
The act is quite stringent. Apparently no allowance is made for a plot. It is a most unfortunate thing that, although we look after the optical needs, care of the teeth and so on of the veteran while he is alive, no allowance is made for a small plot when he dies so that he can be properly placed at rest. In this case the widow did have certain assets of the value of $280, but they are not immediately realizable. The point of the matter is that she falls within the group of those who have estates left to them of a value of less than $1,000.
If, on the other hand, this man had died at home the Last Post fund would have taken care of all the expenses, including the price of the plot. It was her misfortune that her good husband should pass away in the hospital instead of at home. If he had not done so she would not have had any worry. I can understand how upset she would be to receive notice that there is no place for her husband in the veterans' section of the burial ground.


Mr. Chairman, I am not going to speak at any length on Bill No. 164. I can go pretty well all the way with the hon. member for Cape Breton South in most of the things he said. I can also go an additional mile starting from scratch with respect to what the hon. member for New Westminster said, but in neither case do they share the great responsibility for this measure that rests upon the government. Sometimes I think it must be a marvellous thing to sit in the seats of the opposition. It may be one of the spots where I shall sit, but until that day arrives I shall be on the government benches.
War Veterans Allowance Act The situation respecting the objections of the opposition is of course quite clear. They have no responsibility for securing the money. We on that side and this rump side of the house have that responsibility, and we owe it to the people from whom we collect taxes to see that their money is spent in a manner that is at least equitable so far as the general over-all expenditures of the Department of Veterans Affairs are concerned.
I recall, and so will other veterans in the house who were overseas in the first world war, that there were a number of Canadians who did not leave the United Kingdom. As the hon. member for Cape Breton South said, some of them were so ordered, but I think it is also fair to say that some of them were not so ordered.
When we heard evidence in the veterans affairs committee one of the presentations was that of the national council of war veterans, which is composed of five or six different types of men and women who served in various branches of the service and in all probability comprise some 50 per cent of the total membership of the Canadian Legion. They are entirely in disagreement with the Canadian Legion respecting those who served in the United Kingdom in the first world war. They stated when they gave evidence before the committee that at this time they were not prepared to advocate that the veterans of world war I, who served only in the United Kingdom, should come under the influence, if you care to put it that way, of the recipients of war veterans allowance.
As to that I have no fight with the Legion or with the national council of war veterans. But I do say, Mr. Chairman, to all returned men, whether of the last war or of the first war, that there is a great deal of disagreement with respect to this very point. It would seem desirable if and when we consider that question again that there be greater unification of thought either for or against the government introducing that particular legislation.
Certainly I am in agreement with the suggestion that we should have a permanent veterans affairs committee. I can see nothing inimicable in it at all. As the hon. member for New Westminster has said, it now appears as though we are going to have veterans with us for a considerable length of time. I hope that is true.


So do I.


I hope that is true because the day it ceases to be true I shall not have a voice in this parliament.
When the veterans affairs committee met three years ago I was astounded to learn for

War Veterans Allowance Act the first time that a 100 per cent pensioner had to pay a certain amount to the hospital while he was hospitalized. I do not know that we can hang too many skeletons on that, because it seems to me that the quintessence of all legislation respecting war veterans is that we are really more concerned about the "have-not" character who has served than we are or ought to be about the one who has a high pension. I have no fight whatever with that, except to say that it does seem a bit discriminatory that the man who served and received disabilities sufficient to put him into the highest disability category should be penalized that additional $15 a month when he is hospitalized.
Then again, you could come back if you wished to the real basis of our veterans charter and find there is possibly room for argument on both sides. I think our greatest concern, either as veterans or non-veterans, either as members of this house or nonmembers, is in assisting the "have-nots" above anyone else. I would not wish particularly to line up on either side of the argument at the moment, but I was surprised to learn that that condition did exist. I did not know it existed until I was a member of the veterans affairs committee three years ago. If anyone wished to do so that could be interpreted as discriminatory legislation.
Before I resume my seat there is one thing I should like to draw to the attention of the committee and the minister. I want to restate a condition which I think needs clarification, and it has nothing to do specifically with the indiv