for leave to introduce Bill No. 5, to amend the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act (voluntary revocable check-off).
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Revenue. In view of the grain congestion and the necessary construction of farm storage facilities, has the minister given consideration to granting farmers accelerated depreciation for income tax purposes on farm granaries?


Mr. Speaker, the government has given very serious and careful consideration to all the problems which have arisen in the grain trade.


I should like to ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. When will the results of this consideration become known?


The best answer I can make to that question is a repetition of the answer given yesterday by the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe). He said that the government's legislation program with respect to grain is on the order paper. He also said that if there is any further program, it will appear on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the 67509-6
Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Would the minister tell the house whether the proposed simplification of formalities in the case of British immigrants coming to Canada referred to by his deputy minister, Mr. Laval Fortier, at a press conference in Canada House as reported in the French newspaper Le Droit, is intended for British immigrants only or whether these simplifications will be extended to all immigrants coming to Canada regardless of their original nationality?


Mr. Speaker, I have not the hon. gentleman's advantage of having read the particular item in question. I think perhaps it would be wise for me to read it before I attempt to explain it.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Is any agency of the minister's department or of any other government department taking any measures, in co-operation with provincial and municipal agencies, to discover the cause of so many fires in homes and apartments, and to prevent the appalling loss of life in such fires? If so, what measures are being taken?


The division of building research of the national research council has a fire research section, the object of which is to investigate all aspects of fires with special reference to loss of life and the improvement of buildings with respect to fire hazards. The head of the section receives all second degree fire calls in the city of Ottawa, and therefore the national research council through its fire research section has studied all serious fires in the capital city in close co-operation with the Ottawa fire department during the last three or four years.
As the question suggests, the responsibility for fire prevention is a provincial matter under the British North America Act. The officer directly responsible is the fire marshal in the various provinces. The division to which I have referred works closely with the fire marshal and reports to him the results

Inquiries of the Ministry of their studies. In general, the division is working to eliminate fire hazards from Canadian homes and Canadian buildings. The difficulty at the moment is that these fires occur in the older houses and about all that the building research department can do is to call attention to the hazards in the home, the necessity for cleanliness, the necessity for having wiring checked, particularly if the wiring is old, and to ask that all precautions be taken.
I believe that as a result of the study we are moving toward a better class of fire-resistant building in newer construction both of homes and of other types of buildings.


May I ask two questions of the Minister of National Health and Welfare? In view of the large number of children who have recently lost their lives in burning homes and apartments, and in view of the fact that many mothers left alone with small children have no knowledge of what to do in case of fire, will the minister consider the advisability of including with the children's allowance cheques which go to the mothers of the country every month-


Order.


-some suggestions prepared by experts to be followed in case of fire?
My second question is-


Would the hon, member be good enough to allow the minister to reply to this already lengthy question before he puts his second question? May I tell him now that if the second one is of the same length and gives as much information as the first, perhaps he might now consider revising it.


I shall wait for the minister's answer to the first one.


The hon. gentleman gave me notice of his intention to ask this question yesterday and the matter that he asks about is going to receive our careful consideration. I may tell him that already our department of information has issued pamphlets in the thousands about fire prevention in co-operation with the Ontario fire marshal's office. I was in touch with the Ontario fire marshal yesterday, and 1 found that his office, under the direction of the attorney general of the province of Ontario, does distribute material somewhat along the lines suggested. However, the matter will receive careful attention.


On the orders of the day:
should like to address a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. I have given his most capable parliamentary assistant verbal but unofficial notice of the question. In view of the minister's summer-long consideration of the question of amending the War Veterans Allowance Act to provide for an allowance to be paid to veterans who have to reside outside of Canada for health reasons, can he inform the house of the results of his summer's reflection and pondering on this question?


Mr. Speaker, in view of the introductory remarks of the hon. member before he put his question, I am not sure that he should not have addressed it to my parliamentary assistant. However, I shall endeavour to answer him by saying that the question of paying war veterans allowance to a veteran residing outside of Canada has received, as he knows, consideration on numerous occasions. It was again given very careful study after the close of the last session. The decision has been reached that no amendment would be made at this time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. Will the minister give the house the true reasons for the delay in commencing the construction of the new post office in the city of Quebec?


I am not aware of any unusual delays, Mr. Speaker. Perhaps the hon. member would do well to have a personal chat with me and tell me what he has in mind.


Mr. Speaker, I only want to know the reason for the delay in the commencement of the construction of the new post office in the city of Quebec.


There are no delays and no obstacles. We are progressing with the development of the plans and specifications.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he has given favourable consideration to the suggestion that a select committee of the house be set up to inquire into Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited, which was mentioned in the speech from the throne?


No, Mr. Speaker, there has been no decision reached to recommend to the house the establishment of a select committee to deal with that matter.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Prime Minister. I regret that I have not had the opportunity to give him notice, so perhaps he might take my question as notice. Has any request been received by the government from any of the maritime provincial governments for disaster relief to help alleviate hardship caused by the recent disastrous storms and floods in the maritime provinces?


To my knowledge, Mr. Speaker, no request has been received from any of the maritime provinces, but I shall inquire whether any such request has been received by any of the departments.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce? Is the minister aware of a statement made by the Australian minister of trade and commerce recently, indicating some feeling that there has to be a revision of the empire trade agreement and also the general agreement on tariffs and trade? Has there been any official communication from the Australian government to the Canadian government in that regard? If so, is the matter likely to be the subject of further conferences or further communications?
Inquiries of the Ministry


I regret to say I have not seen the newspaper article in question.


Two days ago.


Nor have I seen any official communication from the Australian government in that regard. If one has been received, no doubt the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) will so advise. I have not seen it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare? Will the government be prepared at this session to introduce legislation implementing any agreement reached between the federal government and the provinces respecting health insurance?	[DOT]


Mr. Speaker, as my hon. friend knows, the federal and the provincial governments are to meet pursuant to a suggestion made by the Prime Minister of Canada at the conference which was held in this chamber on October 3. That conference set up a subcommittee consisting of the Minister of National Health and Welfare, the Minister of Finance and the provincial treasurers of the provinces. That committee is to meet on January 23 next. I would remind my hon. friend of the words of the premier of Ontario, that the only way to make progress in this matter is to recognize that co-operation between the provincial and the federal governments is essential. I would hope the hon. gentleman would agree with that view.


On the orders of the day:
Hon. R. O. Campney (Minister of National
Defence): Mr. Speaker, I think all hon. members of the house will be interested to know that all the claims arising out of the death of passengers and crew of a T.C.A. North Star aircraft resulting from the collision between that aircraft and an R.C.A.F. Harvard aircraft near Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, on April 8, 1954, have now been settled.
I think hon. members will agree with me that it would not be desirable to make
The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker public the amounts paid to next of kin with respect to each of the 31 individual passengers and four members of the crew. I may say, however, that the total amount paid in settlement of these claims was slightly under one million dollars.
It has been impossible, in spite of the most careful and painstaking investigations by technical and legal experts of the Department of Transport, the Department of National Defence and Trans-Canada Air Lines, to ascertain responsibility for the accident.
As a result of the accident T.C.A. suffered a very heavy loss in the value of the plane. The government has therefore decided that it would be only fair and equitable for the crown to pay the third party claims. This the crown has done.
The house resumed, from Thursday, January 12, consideration of the motion of Mrs. Shipley for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Drew, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Coldwell.
Mr. Speaker, in commencing my remarks this morning may I join with those who have preceded me in offering a word of congratulation to the mover (Mrs. Shipley) and the seconder (Mr. Laflamme) of the address in reply to His Excellency's speech. In so far as the hon. member for Timiskaming is concerned, may I say that I listened with interest to her references to her recent trip to Paris in connection with the NATO parliamentary association. I should like to say to you that the hon. member for Timiskaming, the hon. member for Hamilton West (Mrs. Fairclough) and Senator Fergusson, who were the lady members of the group that went from Canada, made a contribution to the deliberations of that conference which was referred to most favourably by all in attendance.
As to the seconder, may I say that the longer one is in the House of Commons the more one looks for that infusion of youth and ability which elections generally bring to the House of Commons. My mind goes back to 1945 when a group of brilliant young members, representative of all parties, entered this house. You, sir, were a member of that group. Two or three other members of that group have become members of the cabinet, while others have made important
[Mr. Campney.I

contributions. All this strengthens that concept of democracy without which the House of Commons cannot discharge its responsibilities.
I have read the speech from the throne and having read it I must say that one would almost think that the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) had placed in the hands of the Governor General a copy of the speeches delivered in 1929 and 1930. There was adulation for the prosperity which exists, along with a complete playing-down of the current agricultural situation in this country. Reading those speeches of 1929 and 1930 one realizes that the government of that day lived in the same dreamland which was apparent in the speech delivered the other day by His Excellency. He spoke of the expanding economy, but he played down the serious situation of agriculture in the country. At that time, however, the situation was different; generally speaking, agriculture was in a precarious position everywhere in the world. Today that is not a fact.
However, before I deal with the question of agriculture, which to one coming from a western constituency, or indeed from any constituency in Canada today, is a matter of paramount importance, there are one or two references I wish to make to matters which for some reason or other have not found their way into the speech from the throne.
One is in connection with the development of T.C.A. The Prime Minister yesterday afternoon mentioned that something must be brought about, or will be brought about in the future, whereby the federal and provincial authorities will join together in a national development policy. One of the first things that has to be considered in that connection is the transportation problem.
Some years ago-I think it was in 1953- the Canadian Pacific Air Lines asked for a permit from the transport board to operate a freight line throughout the northern section of Canada between Montreal, Winnipeg, Prince Albert, Edmonton and Vancouver. At that time the Prime Minister stated that the decision that was then made was not to be taken as the "perpetuation of monopoly conditions". We in the northern part of Saskatchewan-and the same applies generally in all the areas in the western provinces-are today denied air services because of the monopoly in effect that denies any competition to the T.C.A.
I should like to hear from the Prime Minister in that connection. What is going to be done? Is this era of monopoly centralization in the T.C.A. to continue? Has not the T.C.A. held for sufficiently long a position whereby it has been able to prevent competition? Is

it not time that, in so far as freight deliveries are . concerned in particular, competition should be permitted? As far as the passenger situation is concerned, competition could do no harm to the T.C.A.; it could only improve services.
The safety record of T.C.A.-and mention was made by the minister today of the tragic episode at Moose Jaw-has been good. But surely, when national development beyond anything ever before expected is immediately before us, the time has come for a reconsideration of the whole matter and for the Prime Minister to go even further than he went in 1953 when he said that the decision then made was not to be understood as a perpetuation of monopoly conditions.
What I have said in that connection represents my own views on this subject. I believe the problem of air transportation deserves serious consideration at this session of parliament. Certainly those of us who have had the privilege of travelling abroad and have seen something of the value of competition in other countries believe that the time has come for a reconsideration of this matter, so that such arrangements may be made as will permit competition with T.C.A. in this country.
Then there is another matter, which affects particularly those of us who live on interprovincial rivers. On a number of occasions, I have raised in this house the question of the seriousness of pollution and its effects on those who reside in urban centres on interprovincial rivers. The problem is with us again on the North Saskatchewan river, and I am asking the Minister of Justice (Mr. Garson) to give consideration at this session of parliament to meeting it. This problem cannot be met by provincial co-operation, as we have found in the meetings that have taken place between the provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba. It can only be met as it is met in the United States, by amendments of the criminal law to the end that wilful pollution shall indeed be an offence as against the state.
Those are the two problems I mentioned that particularly affect and are of interest not only to the constituency of Prince Albert but also to other areas in other parts of Canada; first the hampering and throttling effect of lack of competition to the T.C.A. and second to river pollution.
Coming to some of the matters that have already been dealt with, and I do not want to be repetitious, we on this side of the house are not given to panegyrics of our leader or paeans of praise which in some parts of this house apparently are a routine matter.
The Address-Mr. Diejenbaker As I listened to the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Drew) yesterday reviewing the situation in this country, I could not but think how right he has been on many matters in the last several years. He has dealt with the wheat situation on several occasions. But to what effect? Well, we are met by those optimistic utterances to which the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) has almost patent rights.
When we pictured the danger of accumulating surpluses, we were met by the argument, all is well. The farmers of this country were assured on more than one occasion by the Minister of Trade and Commerce that there was nothing to fear. "Do not worry about these surpluses", he said in effect. "You will have none of them on your farms at the end of the present crop year". That is what he told the people of Canada, particularly those engaged in agriculture, last year. That is what he told the people of Canada in February, 1955, when this matter of piling up surpluses on the farms of the country was before the house. I think I ought to read what he said on that occasion. On the 18th of February, 1955, after dealing with the question of carryovers, he said this as found on page 1312 of Hansard:
However, as I say our sales are very good. I can assure hon. members, I think with certainty-
There was authority; "with certainty", he said
-that before the crop year ends on July 31 any producer who has grain of any kind that he wishes to market will have had an opportunity of marketing it.
That was his statement in February, 1955. What has happened since to change that opinion? I will refer to the United States policy in a moment, but their policy as between February and July was such that it interfered but very little with wheat marketing anywhere in the world. Then the minister produced this, Mr. Speaker, which for optimism is indeed a howitzer. As found at page 1313 of Hansard he said:
We will have a substantial carryover of wheat, but that wheat will all be in public storage.
"All!"
Storage on the farm will no longer be a problem to western Canada.
That was in February of 1955. One hundred million answers to that false prophecy are to be found in the granaries of western Canada.
Then to return once more to the Leader of the Opposition, let me point out that he indicated over and over again from 1952 on that we were indeed losing our markets and in particular that we are losing the British market. On two or three occasions in this house motions were made to assure something

The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker in the nature of a commonwealth conference to provide for the building of a spirit of co-operation so that our markets within the commonwealth would not be lost. Again we were faced by the optimism and were told: Do not worry about it; we are in office; all is well with the world. That was the attitude.
Then came the serious situation in the prairie provinces. It could be seen coming all summer long. I refer to the inability of the farmer to market. We asked for cash advances. One of the first to ask for that assistance was the Leader of the Opposition, who so often is painted as being inimical to the west. Was he not right on the question of markets? No one can deny that he was. Was he not right when he demanded advances on farm-stored wheat? I should like to see any of the western members stand up and say that he was wrong. One of them made the statement that you cannot have advances because, if you do, you have the elevator men engaged in the money business. As a matter of fact, under the present system, today it is the elevator men who will have to collect for the banks or assure that the banks receive their payment.
The Prime Minister went west in September on the occasion of our jubilee celebration. When he returned to the east and he said he thought-and now I am generalizing as to his words, although I have the exact phraseology-that very few people in the west needed assistance, that all was well. I say this to the Prime Minister. Has the Minister of Justice (Mr. Garson) not told you about the meeting he attended in Marquette constituency? If you want an answer, ask him. Let him bring the message to Garcia. Has the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner) not told you-I say this, through you, Mr. Speaker, to the Prime Minister-or let you in on the secret that the west is aroused and that almost unanimously the people are asking for cash advances? You say that the loan system will fill the bill and you are asking the farmer to pay 5 per cent on his earnings. You are asking the farmer to pay interest on his income. Is it any wonder that feeling is aroused in western Canada today? When action is asked for, energetic evasion of responsibility has become the first care of this government.
Must I prove to the government today what conditions are like? I am not going over the statistics that have already been placed before the house. We are in a serious position in the west and when we are in a serious position, it is only a matter of time until the effect will be felt everywhere in the dominion. Farm implement sales are down. Retail sales in Saskatchewan are lower than they have been for several years. The reason

is simply this. While the farmers have done their job, they relied on the kind of humbug that is to be found in this speech of February 16 to which I have made reference. They relied on the humbug that markets would be found for their wheat, that they did not have to worry about farm storage, and they acted accordingly.
Here are some figures, Mr. Speaker, that indicate the net income of farmers in western Canada for the last three or four years, beginning in 1949. I could go back farther if anybody wanted me to do so.
Farm income on the Prairies
	($ millions)
1949 			 810
1950 			 630
1951 			 1,127
1952 			 1,082
1953 			 884
1954 		376
In that period of time, as was mentioned yesterday by the leader of the C.C.F. party, the purchasing power of the dollar has gone down since the war by approximately 50 per cent. If you take that fact into consideration, you begin to realize something of the difficulties in which we find ourselves today in western Canada, in spite of the optimistic statements made by the various ministers of the crown.
I have a suggestion to make to the Prime Minister. If he wants to find out what the people of western Canada think of the cavalier treatment the west has received at the hands of this government in regard to cash advances, let him appoint one of those western members-and there are some ambitious ones-to the Senate and let us have a byelection. Then there will be an answer. If the Minister of Justice was not able to make the Prime Minister realize the situation the Minister of Mines and Technical surveys (Mr. Prudham) should; or if the Minister of Agriculture has not been able to convey it to the Prime Minister, the result of such a by-election would do so.


The result would not interest the Conservative party.


As a matter of fact the government finds itself in the position that it cannot act. When the Minister of Trade and Commerce takes a stand, that stand binds the government. The only hope we have of the government's changing its attitude with regard to stored wheat is for the Minister of Trade and Commerce to go on another fishing trip. That is the one hope we have in western Canada today. The handling of this problem is a tragedy of errors; it is a chronic and tragic record of self-deception, optimism and

arrogance. It is an attitude on the part of the government that constitutes a mockery of the public demand for action.
I want to say to the leader of the C.C.F. that the amendment moved yesterday is one that represents the attitude generally of the farmers in western Canada. I had hoped that it would not be tacked on to the amendment to the address in reply to the speech from the throne because that does not give my hon. friends from western Canada supporting the government a true opportunity of standing up and being counted. If that amendment had been made on going into supply, the people of western Canada, who ask for and demand cash advances, would have been able to find out, once and for all, where the Liberal members stand on this demand. Cash advances are asked for and demanded by them.
What is the over-all policy on agriculture? There was a conference of provincial ministers of agriculture last fall with the federal Minister of Agriculture. Was there an overall future policy developed? I could not see it. Where is the unity in the government today? On the one hand you have the Minister of Trade and Commerce speaking in Calgary and making a statement in regard to competition by the United States of America. He said:
We have told, our United States friends quite frankly we regard some of their recent actions as detrimental not only to Canada's interests but to the interests of all countries including their own.
That is one minister. Then, we have the other minister, the Minister of Agriculture, commending Benson of the United States for his policy on the disposal of surplus agricultural products.


On everything but wheat.


Oh, another amended statement.


It is not an amended statement; that is the original statement.


The government should have a department of ministerial muffs through which corrections in quotations and statements would be made. That is the first time there has been any circumlocution in regard to this question. The . minister has never denied making the statement.


That is an absolutely false statement. I have set forth the correct statement at least once a week ever since.


Now I understand why there have been so many messages to the press lately. This is one of the statements that the press has not been reporting then,
The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker although it has reported some of the other alterations, changes or alleged misquotations. It has not reported this one.


You apparently do not read your own local newspapers.


That, of course, is no answer. I have here every correction, and it takes a big file to cover the Minister of Agriculture's corrections.
Then, again, the Minister of Agriculture has been speaking in favour of parity. He made a speech before the agricultural conference in Ottawa and he said this in regard to maintaining a fair relationship between the returns from agriculture and those from other occupations:
This, in our opinion, is more helpful than saying parity, which can mean many different things. You can call it parity or whatever you like.


That is correct.


Then the Minister of Trade and Commerce, almost on the same day, speaking before the farmers' union of Alberta, said:
We have seen the unpleasant results of parity pricing in the United States.
Mr. Speaker, all you have to do is pay your money and take your choice.


They are both the same if you read them. We are both opposed to the application of parity as in the United States.


There seems to be divided responsibility between the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Trade and Commerce. The Minister of Agriculture wants a certain kind of action and the Minister of Trade and Commerce strongly adheres, and continues to adhere, to his declarations of the past regardless of their application to the present.
The loan system that was evolved is a sham and a delusion. It is meaningless. Farmer after farmer comes to me and says, "I can borrow from the bank without that because I have the credit." Farmer after farmer is turned down by the banks in western Canada. Then, in addition to that, there is the other point that the farmers find themselves in a position of having to swallow the pill of paying interest on their earnings, paying interest on their year's work. Surely, Mr. Speaker, even at this late date the Prime Minister will give reconsideration to the declaration made yesterday by the Minister of Trade and Commerce which can be interpreted as nothing else but placing a final stamp of disapproval on farm-stored grain.

The Address-Mr. Diefenbaker
What a mess! Granaries filled and farmers unable to sell. What an example of disorganization! The Leader of the Opposition said yesterday that there was 100 million bushels of available terminal space at the head of the lakes of the Pacific coast.


It is not true, but you can repeat it again.


I have heard the minister say before that a statement was not true, only to have it proven true, as was the case with his statement on February 16 last.
Here are the figures. I simply take them from the grain statistics weekly issued by the dominion bureau of statistics, and they indicate that the amount of general storage in Canada today is approximately 600 million bushels, 598 million bushels.


That is the nominal storage; you can discount that by 10 per cent.


The minister can make his speech later.


I do not like these phony statements being put on the record.


There is no one in this house who has more often created a surplus of chaff than the minister. The dominion bureau of statistics grain statistics weekly, page 1, indicates that there is in storage in Canada 364 million bushels of wheat. Then there are other grains, oats, barley, rye, flax seed, etc., equal to 157,049,000 bushels. This makes a total of 521,809,000 bushels. Deducting the amount of available storage, that would leave over 100 million bushels still available and unused. How does this happen? It is because of another failure. They set up a transport controller who apparently does everything but control. The figures show that we are short of box cars.
I have available here the January 11 issue of a bureau of statistics bulletin which indicates that during the year 1955 the number of grain cars used decreased by some 31,000; grain products by some 4,900; coal went up; concentrates went up; gasoline and fuel oil; sand, gravel and crushed rock; iron ore some four times; lumber, timber and plywood; newsprint and various other commodities went up materially in their use of freight cars. Why cannot we in western Canada receive a fair and proper allotment? What is the reason? Is it because the hauling of wheat is not profitable? Is that the answer? Is it because some other commodities are more profitable? I pose these questions and I ask, is that not another example of the kind of thing that has caused the


greatest emergency in western Canada's history. There is available space for storage which is unused because of the shortage of freight cars.
The Minister of Trade and Commerce himself, when he spoke in Edmonton to one of the organizations meeting there in the month of November, said we were 10,000 cars short in the western provinces. What is this but another example of what the Leader of the Opposition called yesterday the inertia of a government too long in power, disdainful of the wishes of the people and of the needs of the times?
I have only a few more minutes left, sir. I want to place before the government a number of suggestions that have come to me from farm representatives in western Canada. I do so with diffidence because of the remarks of the Minister of Trade and Commerce in July last when he said in effect that he did not listen to anything the opposition said. I am addressing these remarks to the Prime Minister. I ask him to realize that today the Canadian farmer on the whole is not sharing equitably or fairly in the national income with the other sections of the country. The prairie farmer is the worst off. Today his income has been cut down approximately 50 per cent from the high point of several years ago.
We are not asking for a handout. The western wheat farmer has not received handouts. We are asking for a measure of justice, not the dubious hopes that are to be found in a royal commission set up to determine Canada's economic position 25 years hence. What we want today is action. The fundamentally important thing is immediately to make available cash advances. Second, immediate action to make available the necessary box cars so that the farmers will be able to sell what they have to the extent of the available storage. Why can that not be granted?
These are two things for which we ask. They will not cost anybody anything, because if you get an advance on account of your wheat you cannot fool anybody. You cannot commit a fraud on anybody because you have no quota book, and there is no quota book for thieves.
The Leader of the Opposition yesterday mentioned the disposal of those portions of the surpluses of wheat that are a little better than feed. Is there not some way that that wheat can be removed from the main terminals? Can there not be co-operation brought about between the federal and the provincial authorities so that in the form of government guaranteed bank loans the eastern farmers would be encouraged to purchase

their feed requirements in advance and thereby utilize storage space existing at the present time at the terminals and also on thousands of farms in western Canada? I can see nothing in the way of doing that. Today the farmers are throttled; they cannot sell anywhere except to the wheat board. Surely, the first thing is to do something to remove that surplus of unsaleable wheat; that is, unsaleable for human consumption.
I should now like to refer to the remarks of the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson), which were made when he was in Europe, to the effect that there was a possibility of trade in wheat with Russia. The Minister of Finance (Mr. Harris) seemed to admit that something along that line was taking place, but he said he did not want to become involved in a discussion on wheat.
The NATO organization is being challenged today as never before. Is there any possibility of strengthening that organization in the interests of economic unity so that the various NATO countries will, in unity of purpose, set up something in the nature of a food bank, as advocated by the FAO, to the end that strategic quantities of durable farm products will be maintained in a central place? If that were done, the surpluses would be removed from the farms not by the destructive conditions of the 1930's but by the government and placed in a position where in the years ahead they might be utilized for the benefit of mankind.
What consideration has the government given to the United States plan to set up a soil bank program in that country? Today we have something similar under the P.F.R.A. under which submarginal lands are taken out of production. Is there not something inherently good in the United States plan which could be made available to Canada so that we could meet the problem with which we are faced today? We are going to have many surpluses in the future so long as technological skill and reasonable climatic conditions remain.
Is it not also time to give reconsideration to proceeding with the project which has received the continuing support of the Leader of the Opposition, namely, the Saskatchewan dam and irrigation project? The Secretary of State for External Affairs opened the new Canada dam in India, a dam that will irrigate
250.000	acres, with an ultimate objective of
600.000	acres. I believe in the Colombo plan and its extension; but surely, while we are engaged in such a plan in another country, we on the prairies in Canada and in the province of Saskatchewan have the right to ask whether the time has not come to give favourable consideration to the request of the western provinces to proceed with a
The Address-Mr. Legare similar project here. The Minister of Agriculture has often suggested, the building of this project so that when the days of famine come again in western Canada we shall be able, through its instrumentality, to diversify our agriculture and raise our economic level to that of some of the other provinces.
(Translation) :


Mr. Speaker,
before I state my reasons for speaking today,
I should like to congratulate the mover (Mrs. Shipley) and the seconder (Mr. Laflamme) of the address in reply to the speech from the throne. We had already become familiar with the warm, convincing, voice of the hon. member for Timiskaming and we knew that she would open this debate with wise and judicious remarks. The new member for Belle-chasse has revealed himself as a valuable asset for the right wing of the house and we are grateful to the electors of his constituency for sending to this parliament a young man full of talent, life and spirit.
Now that the house is called upon to study many measures of more or less immediate effects on the economic future of the country,
I should like, at the beginning of this session, to emphasize the dangers which threaten us unless a better balance can be established between progress in industry and that of agriculture.
We have learned in the speech from the throne that parliament will be asked to enact legislation designed to help the farmers of western Canada. We easterners shall gladly do so, knowing that the effects of an economic upset in the prairie provinces would soon be felt out here.
However, if the west has its problems we also have our own, and even though they are not mentioned explicitly in the speech from the throne we expect that this parliament will continue its policy of agricultural price support. If we go back to 1944, the year when that legislation was enacted, we see that the avowed intention of the legislator was then to provide sufficient and steady revenues for the farmers during the period of transition from war to peace and-today this is the most important point-to seek to achieve a fair balance between the revenues of agriculture and those of other fields of endeavour.
This fair balance does not yet exist and all legislatures should try to achieve it. On the other hand, agriculture in Quebec and Ontario would have been depressed long ago if that legislation had not been passed 12 years ago.
A superficial examination of the problem might suggest that it is illogical to maintain
82	HOUSE OF
The Address-Mr. Legare price support in the case of butter for example when there seems to be overproduction. On going deeper into this problem, we find two things: if the support price goes down, production will immediately decrease so that it will no longer be sufficient for domestic consumption. We will then have to import butter. Then, too, the income of farmers will fall and they will quit the farm, which will lead the agricultural economy to bankruptcy.
And here I wish to congratulate the government on having found ways and means to dispose of the butter surpluses of the last two or three years without dislocating the market of allied countries. There has been criticism of our sales of butter to iron curtain countries at prices lower than those prevailing on our domestic market, but those who make this criticism seem to forget that the crux of the problem is to sell our butter without weakening our local marketing position and without affecting the support price.
The government can sell its surpluses to anybody, to Russia or communist China if need be, at any price it can obtain. That is a secondary matter. The point I wish to emphasize is this. The government should ensure the producer a return high enough to cover his costs of production. Our workers understand that the farmer needs money to buy the goods they themselves produce. They know also that, before the implementation of legislation regarding the support price of butter, they paid as much as 80 or 90 cents a pound for this product. I am therefore pleased to congratulate the government on its policy in this field and I urge it to give even closer consideration to the gap between the revenue of the farmer in Quebec and that of other classes of workers.
The dairy industry plays an important part in the economy of my constituency. Besides, the province of Quebec has the largest milk production of the whole country. This production has kept growing since 1950, from 4,830,000,000 to 5,575,000,000 pounds. A third of this production is sold as fluid milk and the rest is used in the manufacture of butter and cheese.
This single industry brings Quebec an annual return of some $170 million. Quebec is also the largest butter producer and last year manufactured close to 120 million pounds. In the production of cheese, it comes second, Ontario being first with 61,827,000 pounds in 1953 as compared with 13,600,000 pounds in Quebec.
(Mr. Legare.]

If the province of Quebec is the largest milk producer it is also the greatest consumer of this product. Daily consumption represents 1-06 pints per capita, whereas the average for the country is 0-86 pint. These few figures show the importance of that industry in the province of Quebec, and the necessity for the governments to give it their constant attention.
And as the overproduction of wheat in the western provinces will again be discussed at length during this session, I would also like to say, Mr. Speaker, that in part of my constituency, as well as in some of the neighbouring counties, last summer drought almost completely ruined the grain crops. This winter, a great many farmers who were able each year to sell a few hundred bushels of grain will have to buy $500, $1,000 or even $1,500 worth of grain. Such losses are beyond their means, and it is to be hoped that the Catholic farmers' union can get the provincial authorities to solve this problem if necessary with the help of federal authorities.
If the speech from the throne contained nothing of interest for the Leader of the Opposition, I was glad for my part to learn that the National Housing Act will be amended so as to provide for an increase of the amount and number of loans granted; that the bank for industrial development will be authorized to widen its field of action; that the Canadian farm loan board will be able to grant larger loans; and that a group of women workers will receive better pay.
On the other hand, we know that the government is trying to reduce winter unemployment, that it is planning to assist more unemployed and, finally, to improve all its services.
I want to seize this opportunity to congratulate the government for improving the air service to Quebec and in the eastern sector of my province. There has been increased activity at the airports of Mont Joli and Rimouski, in my riding, and this increased traffic should be maintained. Mont Joli has an airport of considerable importance which could be used more freely, and 1 would ask the Department of National Defence to consider the possibility of stationing a squadron there.
The people of Trois Pistoles were glad to hear that their town will get a public building and they hope to obtain the necessary votes this very session.
To conclude those few remarks, Mr. Speaker, I should like to call the attention of

the government, particularly the Department of Transport, to the need for a new icebreaker built to provide winter navigation between both shores of the St. Lawrence, east of Saguenay. No longer can water transportation of food and materials be suspended for three or four months each year. Industry is fast developing in this area of the province and the population there is likely to double within a few years.
Before long, mining operations and the development of new industrial communities, both on the north and on the south shores, will call for more powerful ferry boats designed to operate all the year round. But a fairly regular service can be maintained only if an icebreaker helps them from time to time. I know, for that matter, that recommendations to that effect will be made before the Gordon commission by some industries on the north shore.
In closing I congratulate the newly elected members in this house and I hope they will find in their new responsibilities the satisfaction arising from well-performed duty.
(Text) :


Mr. Speaker, it would be easy for hon. members of the house to come to the conclusion that the present agricultural situation in this nation concerns only the farmers of the three prairie provinces, but I am afraid that that conclusion would not be correct. The agricultural crisis that exists in Canada today is one that faces agriculture from one end of the nation to the other. It is true that it may be more aggravated in the prairies, but nevertheless the crisis faces farmers in all provinces.
I hold in my hand the Economic Annalist, an official publication of the dominion bureau of statistics. The Economic Annalist takes the base period 1935-39 and indicates the prices of agricultural products as being equal to 100. Then for the same base period it indicates farmers' costs of production as also being 100. The latest index for prices of farm products is 225. Yet the index for farmers' costs of production has gone up since the late 1930's by an even greater amount. The cost of production index for agriculture today is 241. Thus according to the economists and statisticians of the federal government, as published in the Economic Annalist, this is a more adverse price-cost relationship than even in the late 1930's. In other words, prices for agricultural products across the country today in relation to the farmers' costs of production are even worse than they were in the late 1930's-worse today than when the Minister of Agriculture first took office in 1935.
The Address-Mr. Argue
The crisis in the prairies is not one that faces farmers only. As a matter of fact, it affects almost everyone in those three provinces. Certainly the businessmen who have advanced credit to the farmers have large amounts on their books and are as deeply concerned in solving this problem as are the farmers themselves. So the need to solve the agricultural crisis is important to the whole Canadian nation, to the people in all provinces, and to the businessmen and the farmers on the prairies in particular.
The crisis has not developed overnight. As a matter of fact, the trend has been apparent to a great many of us for a long time. We have seen sales of farm products going dawn. We have seen sales and exports of grain going down. We asked the Minister of Trade and Commerce time and time again, not only what the government was going to do to increase sales, but how he could explain the very serious deterioration in the sales of Canadian wheat. On 15th February, 1955, as shown on page 1157 of Hansard, he replied to a question of mine as follows:


Am I to take it from the minister's statement that he is saying that export clearances of wheat during the present year will be greater than last year?


The Address-Mr. Argue export sales for the balance of the crop year, at this rate we shall export in the present crop year less than 200 million bushels of Canadian wheat. With this huge surplus of wheat on hand even if we did not get a crop for the next three years, at this rate of selling Canadian wheat at the end of a three-year period we would still have a surplus on hand. That is the situation. Is the Minister of Trade and Commerce able to comprehend it? Apparently not. As late as 28th March, 1955, he said:
Our percentage of total sales has been reasonably good.
While the Minister of Trade and Commerce was away in April the Minister of Public Works was Acting Minister of Trade and Commerce. I asked him what was happening to Canada's sales of wheat, and he had this to say, as shown on page 2940 of Hansard:
The situation is that Canadian export sales in the present crop year have been substantially higher than during the last crop year.
He even went one step further. He said:
Canada has been retaining her place in all her established markets and has indeed got an increased share in many of them.
That was what the Acting Minister of Trade and Commerce said. On 13th May, 1955, the hon. member for Humboldt-Melfort (Mr. Bryson) asked the Minister of Trade and Commerce a question along the same lines, and the minister replied:
There is no drop from last year in the sales of Canadian wheat.
How can we have confidence in the policy of the government? How can we have confidence in the statements of the Minister of Trade and Commerce? How can we h