On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for Kent, Ont. (Mr. Huffman) asked a question with reference to the broadcasting of Allan cup games. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation advises that it is not planning to carry the Allan cup series on a full national network, but has offered a network line free to bring broadcasts of the games from Vernon, B.C., to station CFCO, Chatham, Ontario.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce whether it was he who gave the United States ambassador the misinformation and conclusions regarding Trans-Canada Pipe Lines which found themselves translated into that gentleman's speech yesterday.


I gave no information on the subject.


You were on a trip together.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Hahn) inquired last Friday about a press report that the rescue service on the west coast may be disbanded. This report relates to a letter sent by the British Columbia towboat owners' association to my department which, however, reached it only after the report in question had been
published. The letter contains representations as to a small radio station on the second narrows bridge in Vancouver, and raises the question of financial assistance for the work of marine assistance carried out by the association.
I should explain to hon. members that last October a number of proposals regarding marine search and rescue in British Columbia were made to the officials of my department by the association, which operates a most useful volunteer search and rescue organization on the west coast. At that time it was pointed out to the association that some of the matters covered by its proposals did not come under my department, but an assurance was given that the suggestions put forward would be brought to the attention of the proper authorities. This has been done, and the Department of National Defence, which has the responsibility for co-ordinating the actions of the various agencies concerned, has accepted and given effect to some of the proposals made, while others are still under consideration.
Following the discussions with the association last October a number of changes and additions have been made in order to provide improved communication facilities for search and rescue. My department has installed a new multi-channel radio telephone transmitter at the Point Grey coastal radio station operated by it, and this new transmitter is now in service, together with a stand-by transmitter. Though at present the Point Grey station communicates with the rescue co-ordination centre by means of ordinary telephone circuits, the Department of National Defence is setting up a direct telephone circuit to be used exclusively for this purpose and other telephone circuits to enable the rescue co-ordination centre to communicate directly with the ships through our coastal radio station. The present transmitters and the new telephone circuits will, beyond any doubt, provide communication facilities for search and rescue far superior to the limited facility of the radio on the second narrows bridge and other facilities previously available.
To avoid the confusion that would result if several unco-ordinated agencies participated in search and rescue operations, it was decided by the authorities concerned with search and rescue-and not only by my

Inquiries of the Ministry department-that the radio station on the second narrows bridge, which was established for the control of shipping passing the bridge, should, if it intercepted any distress signal, relay it to Point Grey radio station by land telephone, and thereupon the rescue co-ordination centre would exercise its responsibility for search and rescue and communicate with the vessel in distress through the coastal radio station.
So far as the question of financial assistance is concerned, I should like to say that this aspect of the matter is receiving careful consideration, and I hope it will be possible to announce the decision of the government at an early date.
The press report to which the hon. member referred attributed to a representative of the British Columbia towboat owners' association the statement that the fishing boat Zorina had recently sunk because of the decision or order as to the use of the radio station on the second narrows bridge. I am informed that the Zorina did not make use of the international distress frequency reserved exclusively for distress messages which command the help of any ship in a position to afford assistance, although the Point Grey coastal radio station made repeated attempts to communicate with it on that frequency.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Transport if and when his department, the St. Lawrence seaway authority and the C.N.R. will accept the suggestion of the city of Montreal and other municipalities of the metropolitan area and name a board of independent engineers to end the confusion created by the local lack of planning in regard to Victoria bridge on the St. Lawrence seaway.


I would repudiate at once any suggestion that there was any confusion with regard to the planning of the seaway, and I would also repudiate any suggestion that the agencies of the federal government which come under the Department of Transport have not been fully cognizant of the problems of providing accommodation for highway traffic across the St. Lawrence river.
Additional facilities have already been provided on Victoria bridge; additional facilities have been provided on Jacques Cartier bridge, and the government last

August announced its intention of building a third bridge across the river at Nun's island. When the municipal authorities and other authorities' which have the primary responsibility for dealing with problems concerning automobile traffic have done as much, I will then be prepared to pay more attention to the criticism that has been forthcoming.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence, based on press reports appearing in Sunday's New York Times and this morning's Gazette. I should like to ask the minister why-and I find it difficult to believe that the Canadian government is doing this-


Question.


I should like to ask the minister why the Canadian government is financing and encouraging, through the national research council, research in brainwashing.


No research in that connection is being conducted at the present time and, so far as I know, none has been conducted since I became minister. I understand upon making inquiry that in 1951 and 1952 certain experiments were conducted at McGill University to see whether and to what extent men could be affected, short of the application of any physical duress, torture, or anything of that nature, by purely mental methods.
These experiments evolved from a theory held by one of the very learned professors at McGill, and some students at McGill volunteered their services. Certain experiments were made which demonstrated pretty conclusively, I understand, that purely by mental suggestion people could be reduced to a certain state of mind and that while in that state of mind you could get them to accept any suggestion and assert it as the truth. They became like some members of the opposition; they accepted anything and even believed it to be true. In any event, when the experiments were completed, which I think was in 1952 or early 1953, the exercise came to an end and there has been no further investigation since.


May I then take it for granted, as appears to be obvious, that the results
APRIL iy, 1956
of the research were made available to and were used by the Liberal government? Second, why was it that it was left to the Canadian parliament to learn of this experiment and research through reports of proceedings in a United States congressional committee?


They are more vigilant than the opposition perhaps.


Do you want 'to be a guinea pig?


No; there are enough of them On your side, so I do not need to volunteer.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Postmaster General. In view of the fact that the misunderstanding with letter carrier Erskine in Hamilton apparently has now been ironed out and the department has agreed to pay him the overtime he claimed, will the Postmaster General say whether the department is also prepared to reimburse him for the four and a half days of lost time which he suffered by reason of his suspension?


Mr. Speaker, I did not have notice of my hon. friend's question, but from what I recall of the facts the employee of the department to whom she referred was suspended for a breach of discipline, I believe, or for some other reason. The suspension was made in a regular manner and, as takes place when an employee is suspended, his salary was withheld. There is no intention of changing that decision.


May I ask a further question of the Postmaster General? Will he look into this matter to determine that the suspension was made because of the very circumstances with respect to which the department has now admitted it was in error?


The department has never admitted anything of the sort. I have looked into the matter personally and I am satisfied that the report made to me was a true report of the facts of the case. The man was suspended for slowing down on the job. He was suspended for four days, I believe.


He was suspended because he would not admit it.
Inquiries of the Ministry


My hon. friend may think she knows the facts better than I do, but I am telling her the result of the inquiry made by the investigators of the department whom I sent to Hamilton.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Postmaster General a question of which I sent him notice yesterday. In view of the recent amalgamation of the town of Sutherland with my own city of Saskatoon, has the minister considered mail delivery for that new section of the city? If so, what has been the result of such consideration?


I take it that my hon. friend refers to letter carrier delivery. Consideration has been given to extending letter carrier delivery to Sutherland following its amalgamation with the city of Saskatoon. However, the situation is complicated by the fact that there is a considerable undeveloped and unbuilt area between the limits of the letter carrier service of the city of Saskatoon and the compactly developed section of Sutherland. However, the whole situation is under review at the present time.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Postmaster General. In view of the answer given to the hon. member for Saskatoon and the statement about the extension of metropolitan postal service, does that mean we may have letter carrier delivery to the Rex-dale area, a very large area in Toronto, sooner than we were advised?


There is no relationship between a situation that might exist in one particular area and any desire that might exist in the area referred to by my hon. friend, but the department is always conducting surveys of these fringe areas which lie close to large centres with a view to extending letter carrier service as soon as the circumstances permit.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Citizenship and

Inquiries of the Ministry Immigration whether he is in a position to report to the house-and if so, whether he would so report-on the incident involving officials of his department at Quebec city which was the subject of an editorial in today's Gazette and which I believe was reported upon in the news columns yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, I think this is a typical example of the kind of thing that is bound to happen once in a while when 50 million people cross the border both ways every year. I believe it falls within the ruling which you made the other day, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, of course we know that the minister does not like to be obliged to answer questions of this sort. If the minister will not answer that question, may I ask him whether he has decided to drop his persecution of Mrs. Ingall?


Mr. Speaker, I have not decided to stop beating my wife.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the
Minister of Finance, who I do not believe ever did beat his wife. When will the minister be filing his budget resolutions having to do with amendments to the Income Tax Act?


Mr. Speaker, there are not very many, as a matter of fact, and I had thought I would be able to file them in two or three days' time, before we took them up. But if my hon. friend is thinking of proceeding on the present resolutions, may I say that I had intended to go on with the resolutions that appear in Hansard and then to allow a suitable time after I table the income tax resolutions before discussing them.


As a supplementary question may I ask the minister whether the delay in filing these resolutions means that there will be any changes in them from the announcement made by the minister on the night he gave his budget speech?


Mr. Speaker, the usual secrecy obtains with respect to those resolutions.


As a further supplementary question may I ask whether this house is not being called upon to debate a budget the full terms of which we do not yet know?
[Mr Fulton.]


No more than is customary in any budget, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the statement made recently by the premier of Manitoba to the effect that crop losses from floods are the responsibility of the federal government, what action does this government propose to take to compensate farmers in the interlake country of Manitoba for crop losses sustained in 1955?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know of any such statement by the premier of Manitoba, nor do I admit there is any responsibility on the federal government for crop losses other than that responsibility which was established in a limited way by that act of parliament which is known as the Prairie Farm Assistance Act. The government does not propose to take any other action than to administer properly the provisions of the Prairie Farm Assistance Act.


May I ask a supplementary question? Will the Prime Minister see to it that the people who have paid into the fund under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act and have never received any benefit, because the law says they cannot get any, will be given some recompense for what they have paid in under that act?


I think the Prairie Farm Assistance Act is being administered according to its terms as determined by parliament.


It should be changed.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. In view of the meeting that will be taking place in Toronto next week of the new Canadian Labour Congress, will the minister soon be in a position to answer my question of February 10 as to whether steps will be taken to make provision for the continuation of all certifications under the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act despite any changes in names arising out of the merger?


I shall try to bring in a report on that question this week.


The house resumed, from Thursday, April 12, consideration of the motion of Hon. W. E. Harris (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means.
Mr. Speaker, in continuing this debate on the budget I should like to state that in my opinion the budget presented to this house on March 20 by the Minister of Finance was one that, in view of present conditions, is responsible and economically sound. It may well be that it was not the budget that many people in Canada would have liked, but I think it is only human and understandable that people look forward to the budget with hopeful expectation that there will be some tax reduction, and that at the same time our economy will continue to boom. Upon reflection, however, I believe there are many people in this land who realize that the budget must not only deal with the wishes of the present but also with the needs of the future. Fancy must not be allowed to outrun wisdom.
I believe, too, that budgetary and monetary policies must be such as to curb inflation and at the same time create that climate which is conducive to our economic growth. Recent budgets have been such as to offer stabilizing controls, while at the same time gradually and effectively reducing taxes, particularly in the personal income tax field. The budget of 1955, described as courageous and optimistic at the time, did what it was designed to do. It gave to our economy the required boost and at the same time enunciated policies that were complementary to the confidence which Canadians have in the future of this country. The present budget is such that many will agree with the approach which it makes to the problems facing those who have the responsibility for their solution.
True it is that our Canadian economy is booming; true it is that people across this land recognize the future possibilities of the development of this country; but I believe, too, they are not unmindful of the many dangers that lurk in the path to progress. More and more money to buy less and less is not an ingredient of prosperity. Inflation can destroy the real aim of prosperity. I am sure that all across this land workers realize that their personal prosperity not only
The Budget-Mr. Batten depends upon the size of their pay envelopes but also upon the capacity of those pay envelopes to provide for themselves and for their families the things that are required.
Plenty is not the product of money; plenty is the product of production, production in an atmosphere of prosperity and stability. I believe that as we look over the size of our national debt, the amount we have to pay for national defence, the cost of our social services, the increased payments for the civil service and the cost of the proposed hospital plan, we could not realistically expect major tax reductions at this time. But while there are no major tax reductions, there are tax reductions of some importance.
I should like to make a comparison between the taxes paid in 1955 by a Canadian whom I shall describe and the taxes paid by him in 1952 under similar conditions. Let us take a married taxpayer with two children and therefore having an apparent exemption of $2,300. If his income in 1952 was $2,500, then his taxable income was $200. In 1952 he paid $35 income tax. In 1955 he paid $28, a reduction of $7, or 20 per cent. If his income were $3,000, his taxable income was $700. In 1952 he paid $123. For the tax year 1955 he paid $98, a reduction of $25, or slightly over 20 per cent. If his income were $3,500 his taxable income would be $1,200. In 1952 he paid $215. For the year 1955 he paid $172, a reduction of $43, or 20 per cent. If his income were $4,000 his taxable income would be $1,700. In 1952 he paid $313. In
1955	he paid $252, a reduction of $61, or again approximately 20 per cent. If his salary were $4,500 his taxable income would be $2,200. In 1952 he paid $417. In 1955 his tax was $336, a reduction of $81, or 19 per cent. If his income were $5,000 his taxable income would be $2,700. In 1952 he paid $529. For the tax year 1955 he has paid, or will pay, $426, a reduction of $103, or again approximately 19 per cent. I submit that in the three years since 1952 personal income taxes have been reduced by approximately 20 per cent. This reduction has been for those in income brackets up to $5,000, which includes over 80 per cent of the taxpayers of Canada.
One asks, "What will happen next year? Will there be a tax reduction?" Yes, of course there will. There will not be a tax reduction due to the rate being lowered, but there will be a tax reduction because the reduction announced last year by the Minister of Finance will be operative for the whole year.
Taking the categories which I have just mentioned, if we were to carry out the calculations we would find that for the tax year
1956	the tax in the first bracket would be

The Budget-Mr. Batten reduced by another $2, making a total reduction since 1952 of 26 per cent. In the $3,000 class the reduction will again be 26 per cent from the year 1952, and so on up to incomes of $5,000. Again I submit that by the end of this year, when taxes will be paid for the tax year 1956, personal income taxes will have been reduced by approximately 25 per cent of the tax paid in the year 1952.
I should now like to make a few remarks with reference to regional development, citing a case from my own riding. There are indeed many factors upon which substantial tax reductions would have to depend, and not the least of these is a continuing rise in our national productivity. In an economy such as ours, efforts to increase our national productivity are left largely to the initiative and drive inherent in the free enterprise system, but at the same time subject to the checks and balances dictated by current conditions. In certain areas conditions are such as to attract private enterprise, and very often there is sufficient economic fertility to sustain and maintain industries which are thriving and prosperous. In other areas the economic climate is not so conducive either to new development or to the expansion of the development already existing, not because the potential is not present but because of changing conditions over which the residents of the area have no control.
May I draw for you a mental picture. Imagine for a moment the west coast of Newfoundland as a line running approximately northeast 300 miles long. Beginning from the southern extremity of this line and going northeast for about 100 miles, there is a parcel of land shaped like an equilateral triangle with its base running due east and west. If the base of this triangle is produced to connect this parcel of land with the mainland of Newfoundland you have what is known in Newfoundland as the Port au Port peninsula.
Years ago this area could have been described as having a farming-fishing economy. During the 1930's the commission government endeavoured to increase the productivity of this area by initiating a scheme of land settlement. In this area, and on the mainland island, there are 30 settlements, including two or three larger settlements and the very progressive town of Stephen-ville. The population of this area totals over 10,000.
Time was when there was a most prosperous scallop industry in Port au Port. This industry was still thriving in the early 1940's, when under the agreement between the United Kingdom and the United States a very large air force base was built on the


outskirts of Stephenville. Over the years the construction program which has been carried on there has provided a large amount of employment for the residents of the area. Since 1949 large draggers have been coming into Port au Port and the scallop beds have been depleted. Today the construction program at Harmon air force base is gradually nearing completion, and there is a fear on the part of some of us that there will be an increase in unemployment in the area.
People feel that there is no reason why there should be unemployment in this area. I believe that with the proper governmental action we could have in the Port au Port area and the offshore limits a greatly improved fishing industry. The proper action would give a boost to the decreasing regional economy and would begin a development which with the present potential would create one of the finest fishing centres on the Atlantic seaboard.
I mention this, first because it is important in my own riding and, second, because I believe in the full development of this land which we call Canada. Sometimes I think of confederation as an experiment in faith. It is an experiment in the faith that people of different racial backgrounds, of different languages, of different creeds, of different physical backgrounds, of different needs and with different problems can by a common aspiration weld unity out of those diversities. I believe the experiment will be successful, but I believe it will be successful only when the development of each area can be raised to that level which is limited only by the extent of the natural resources with which the area has been endowed.


Mr. Speaker, in taking part in the budget debate this afternoon I shall not have very much to say about the budget itself. I make no apology for that, because I have made it a rule which I have tried to follow in this house not to talk, at any rate at any length, about nothing. If I were to be compelled to talk about the budget I would be compelled to break that rule, because never in the history of this parliament since I have been here, and I believe never in the history of the country, have we had a budget so empty, so negative in its approach and so lacking in solutions or even suggestions of solutions for the many pressing problems which confront the Canadian economy.
But I do intend to talk this afternoon about a basic issue, an issue upon which the budget is completely silent, an issue which I believe is the fundamental issue facing Canada today.

It calls for a solution, and it requires government action which would follow from a policy decision which it is imperative to make. I refer to the issue presented by the increasing measure of control and domination of the Canadian economy by United States interests. In no sphere is the government so derelict in its duty to give a lead, to reach a decision and then take the necessary action to remedy the situation as it is in this particular sphere.
The present trend which we see unfolding before us in Canada is a trend which, if allowed to continue, will lead to complete outside domination, certainly of the more important segments of our economy, and probably of all the important segments of our economy. I state as a fact that if this process is allowed to continue, and if it is carried to its logical and ultimate conclusion, the seriousness of the situation will be revealed. History shows us that economic domination, if not resisted, if not altered, inevitably leads by a process of absorption to ultimate political domination as well. So the trend we now see unrolling before us in Canada, as' we analyse the situation, and the lack of action on the part of this government to deal with it, is a trend which evokes the most stringent criticism of the government because it results in developments which work to the detriment of Canadian workmen, which work to the detriment of Canadian business and which in the long run must inevitably work to the detriment of Canadian political integrity itself.
I intend in the course of my remarks, if time permits, to suggest some measures which can and should be taken-measures, it is true, which would involve some difficulty, but all these important matters involve the making of difficult but essential decisions. I do not for a moment suggest that the decisions and the implementation of the policy behind those decisions will not be beset with some difficulties. but I do intend now or on another occasion to suggest some measures which can and should be taken to remedy the situation and to halt the trend that we see developing before our eyes.
Before coming to the main subject of my remarks this afternoon I should like to suggest that this matter should be examined in the light of the background which is presented today. There are two particular features of that background that I intend to mention. The first is the background presented by the speech made in Vancouver yesterday by the retiring United States ambassador, Mr. Douglas Stuart, and the second is the picture painted by a booklet released
The Budget-Mr. Fulton at the beginning of this month by the dominion bureau of statistics, entitled "Canada's International Investment Position, 1926 to 1954."
To deal first with the extraordinary and unprecedented statement made yesterday by the United States ambassador, Mr. Stuart, I would say that it seems to me that his speech and the implications of that speech present in the clearest possible light a measure of the seriousness of the situation we now face. We have here an unprecedented example of conduct on the part of a man whom we have always regarded as a responsible and friendly man, a man who has had many friendly relations with Canadians at all levels, governmental, political, business and in the sphere of the general community. The fact that this responsible and friendly man, this ambassador of a friendly country, would intervene directly in an issue which is now being discussed as a domestic issue in Canada, is itself a measure of the seriousness of the situation. That he would regard it as his right and his duty to do so shows how far things have gone along the line of acceptance of American domination, and how far the relationship between our two countries has progressed that it would lead this man to believe that he had the right to intervene in domestic affairs in Canada in this way.
I was and am amazed that he could do so. I am extremely disturbed that he should do so. I am reluctant, I am almost unwilling, to believe that matters have got to the point between our two governments that it would have been suggested to him by his own government that he should thus intervene. I find it, therefore, extremely difficult to believe that his remarks were inspired from Washington, and that leaves me with the assumption, of necessity, that his remarks must have been inspired from Ottawa. This conclusion is the more compelling because we have this situation; that with a domestic controversy going on here, a fundamental difference of political opinion between the government and the opposition, a matter obviously reserved to discussion and decision here in parliament, we have the United States ambassador going to Vancouver expressing exactly the sort of criticism which the government is expressing, in an attempt to becloud the issue and misrepresent the stand the official opposition is taking. It seems to me that this must be regarded as the action of a government here in Ottawa which has so debauched Canadian politics that it uses the United States ambassador as a tool to advance its own political interests.


What about the magazine tax?
2996	HOUSE OF
The Budget-Mr. Fulton


If the government deny this- and I do not hear any hot denial springing to their lips-and whether they deny or not-


It is too ridiculous.


-the fact that the United States ambassador would intervene in the discussion of a domestic issue is a measure of the seriousness of the situation, the seriousness of the pass to which we have been brought, and an indication of the urgent necessity of taking action to end the trend. It illustrates more clearly than anything else could illustrate that things have arrived at such a point that the United States government, if we are to believe that this speech represents their views, would see nothing extraordinary, would see no reason for concern by Canadians-according to the ambassador's remarks-when they wake up to a realization of the extent to which the control of the Canadian economy has passed into United States hands. That is what the United States ambassador was saying. His words are as follows-I am reading from the Globe and Mail of this morning:
"The problem of alleged domination by U.S. capital-"
Alleged domination, mind you.
-of Canadian industry and natural resources is in some respects unique," Mr. Stuart said. "It is general rather than specific, it is being discussed emotionally perhaps more than logically,-


Hear, hear.


His master's voice. Do I understand that the hon. gentlemen opposite accept the suggestion that they have inspired these remarks? He goes on:
"-it is being discussed emotionally perhaps more than logically, it is one for which some of those who raise it do not appear to be seeking a solution but rather the creation of an issue."
That, of course, is exactly the attitude of the government, which refuses, in keeping with the traditional Liberal attitude, to see any issue involved in the domination of the Canadian economy by United States interests. It has got to the point that the United States ambassador, the emissary from the government at Washington, says he finds it extraordinary that Canadians should be concerned over the extent to which this development has been taking place. He finds it extraordinary that Canadians should be concerned when they awake to the realization that nearly 50 per cent of their manufacturing industry is under the control of United States interests, that over 50 per cent of their mining industry is under the control of United States capital, and that nearly 70 per cent of their petroleum industry is under the control of United States capital. He finds it extraordinary that we


should be concerned about these developments. The article continues:
Mr. Stuart suggested that some of the phrases and questions emanating from those critical of U.S. investment in Canada are being used deliberately to create a maximum of suspicion and rasp the pride and self-respect of any Canadian-and risk, for sometimes selfish motives, the raising of a barrier between the two countries.
The Globe and Mail article reporting his speech goes on to say:
Recalling a recent speech by a person he described as a prominent Canadian, Mr. Stuart said, "This speaker had warned, in a somewhat emotional appeal, that we are not going to be treated as though we were the 50th state of the United States ... We are not going to be hewers of wood, drawers of water, and diggers of holes for any other country, no matter how friendly that country may be."
In the same speech, Mr. Stuart continued, the speaker readily conceded that investment from the United States and elsewhere has been largely responsible for the pace of Canadian expansion within these past few years.
We have no quarrel with Mr. Stuart that Canada is dependent in large degree upon outside capital for help in the development of our resources. We and the prominent Canadian to whom it is apparent that Mr. Stuart was referring, and whom we know and respect as the Leader of the Opposition, have always recognized that it is essential to have outside capital to help in the development of our resources and have in fact taken positive steps to encourage and support that trend. But the fundamental difference between ourselves and the government and apparently the fundamental difference between ourselves and Mr. Stuart is that we say that the processing must take place under Canadian control, Canadian regulation and in the interests of the Canadian economy and development rather than that of the United States.
There, of course, there is a fundamental difference; and there, of course, we are entitled to say that when a United States ambassador states that he finds it extraordinary and believes there should be no concern on the part of Canadians that in fact our resources have passed from under our own control he is, of course, illustrating the seriousness of the situation and demonstrating positively that this is the feeling of his government and of the government here, which does not quarrel with his statements and is espousing a policy which is diametrically opposed to the best interests of Canada.
Since the speech of this gentleman has raised, by its direct intervention in the discussion of Canadian domestic affairs, the question of the attitude and position of this party, let me say at once in order to set the record straight that never has our leader

or the party which he leads suggested at any time that anything should be done in Canada to discourage the investment of United States or any other capital in Canada to assist us in the development of our resources. In fact we have encouraged it and say it should be encouraged. We say that as the result of such investment they should share in the benefits and advantages we will receive but that the direction, policy, control and a share of the advantages should be reserved for the benefit of Canada.
I have but to remind the house and you, sir, of the record of my leader in this regard when he was premier of Ontario and when, as a result of the actions he took as premier, he was successful in having invested in Ontario some quarter of a billion dollars of United States capital to the advantage of the economy of that province, particularly in the northern and hitherto undeveloped areas, and was almost exclusively responsible for the tremendous development in the pulp and paper industry, the erection of those huge plants in northern Ontario under Canadian direction and regulation, contributing advantages and benefits to the Canadian economy which were shared by the Americans on terms which the Americans were glad and happy to accept.
That is the policy which we adopt here. I should like to read into the record a press release issued today by the leader of this party, in order to contrast the policy of our leader as I have outlined it and as set forth in this press release with the sort of statements Mr. Stuart and his government have been making. This is a press release issued today, April 17, by the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Drew), and it reads as follows:
It is unfortunate indeed that Mr. Stuart, whom we had all regarded so highly as such an understanding friend of Canada, should have chosen to give as his farewell message so inaccurate an interpretation of Canadian sentiment toward investors from the United States. So far as I am aware, no responsible Canadian has suggested that we do not welcome such investment. Many have urged, however, and will continue to urge, that the Canadian government take appropriate steps to encourage Canadian industry to process a larger proportion of our raw materials for the employment of a greater number of Canadians here in Canada. That is something very different from the interpretation given to quotations which have been removed from their context and their meaning.
I should also like to set alongside that, as a proper statement of the attitude which should prevail in Canada and in contrast with the sentiments expressed by the United States ambassador, some extracts from an editorial which appeared in the April 14 issue of Business Week, one of the most influential of United States magazines. This editorial establishes clearly that thoughtful Americans
The Budget-Mr. Fulton and thoughtful American industrialists recognize that Canada has justifiable cause to be concerned about the trend which is now taking place, of the passage of control of substantial segments of the Canadian economy directly into the hands of United States interests. The editorial has this to say:
When two nations are so deeply involved in each other's economic and political destinies, and when one of the two is larger and wealthier than the other, occasions for conflict will never be lacking. At present, Canada has a long list of concerns about the United States, including:
Heavy United States investment in and control over a significant portion of Canada's oil, mining and manufacturing industries. Fear that United States interests may gain control of the proposed trans-Canada gas pipe line is a particular irritant.
United States tariff and customs policies, which Canadians feel discriminate against their processed and manufactured goods and which worsen Canada's chronic imbalance in her trade with us.
The United States way of disposing of surplus farm commodities . . .
Then I am omitting some words.
The enormous flow to Canada of United States consumer goods, movies and publications . . .
United States unwillingness to be limited by provisions of a 1909 treaty in the dispute with Canada over access to hydro power on the Columbia river. Canadians say we accepted these provisions so long as they worked in our favour but now want to ignore them when they seem to give Canada an advantage.
I express the hope that in the forthcoming negotiations forecast by the Prime Minister, Canada will do nothing to retreat from or to sabotage the position adopted on behalf of this country under which we stand firm on article 2 of that treaty which now works to our advantage and without which we would be unable to develop the tremendous potential hydro resource of the Columbia river. Then the editorial goes on to say:
We don't expect those Canadian grievances that have a real basis to evaporate. Nor do we deny Canada the right to regulate its own affairs, even when we doubt the wisdom of the methods it chooses.
Finally they say:
We won't attempt here to judge the merits of the specific Canadian grievances against us. All we want to emphasize now is our hope that the grievances will stay specific, will not degenerate into that emotion which could more properly be called "anti-American". We both have too much at stake in our partnership to endanger it by a general and irrational hostility.
With that last sentiment we here in this party in the official opposition thoroughly agree. We have specific causes for concern, and it is those specific matters which we wish to discuss and upon which we wish to see the government take specific action. Instead of washing their linen over the back fence by speeches made by the minister in Chicago and in other places which can have
2998	HOUSE OF
The Budget-Mr. Fulton no good purpose, we wish to see these problems resolved by specific decisions by the Canadian government within our own jurisdiction and proper to our own political integrity and independence. We wish to see action taken so the development of Canada can remain under Canadian control and be carried on in the interests of Canada generally. I therefore ask you, Mr. Speaker, to contrast that responsible and thoughtful editorial, which was a proper statement of the position, with the complete and deliberate misrepresentation-I must unfortunately describe it as that-made by the retiring United States ambassador.
I suggest there should also be a contrast between the timorous attitude of this government-that you cannot take any measures that will insist on Canadian regulation, direction and control of our resources because it may hurt or offend United States investors- with the attitude of responsible American commentators and businessmen who say they would be willing to accept proper Canadian policies and actions designed to preserve the integrity of the Canadian economy and to ensure that it would be under Canadian direction, and that they would be willing to invest in Canada subject to those conditions. All I can say there is that the timorous attitude of this government and its refusal to take the necessary action contrasts ill with the realistic and friendly approach of responsible American businessmen themselves.
I should now like to turn to the second feature of the background of the situation as contained in the dominion bureau of statistics release. It is going to be necessary for me to place several quotations on record from their introductory comments, which are based upon the statistical tables which they have themselves compiled. This is the result of a survey of Canada's international investment position from the year 1926 to the year 1954. On page 9 they say this:
Non-resident ownership of Canadian manufacturing now amounts to about a half of the total capital employed and to well over a half in the case of mining, smelting and petroleum. These proportions of ownership have risen rapidly since 1948 as shown in statement 18. Likewise the proportions of these Canadian industries which are controlled abroad have been increasing even more as shown in statement 19.
Then they point out that there is a significant change in the trend, and that while it is true that in the over-all picture Canadian investment now represents a larger proportion of the total capital invested in Canada than was the case in the past, Canadian investment in what they describe as the dynamic field of development is in fact shrinking whereas the Canadian investment that is increasing is in


the more static fields of residential property and related fields. They say:
The nature and distribution of Canadian savings and the opportunities open for individual and public investment have had the effect of concentrating much of Canadian investment in less dynamic forms than some of the investments by non-resident concerns . . .
Then again on page 10 we find this:
A highly significant aspect of the rapidly increasing foreign investments in Canada is their concentration in direct investments in Canadian industry which carry with them control and ownership of equities in areas of Canadian mining and industrial production undergoing accelerated Canadian development. In the field of industry which includes manufacturing, mining and petroleum nonresident controlled companies represent more than half of the estimated total capital invested. In manufacturing alone excluding petroleum refining, the non-resident controlled portion in 1953 was some 47 per cent, and in petroleum 70 per cent, and in other mining 55 per cent.
Let me emphasize the words "non-resident controlled." Finally they say this:
Most of these concerns were controlled in the United States.
Again on page 13 they say:
And the form has also changed, more now being for direct investment in economic development while less represents investment in new issues of bonds than in the 1920's.
There they are again emphasizing the fact that the form of American investment is now in equity capital giving direct control rather than in the borrowed capital which would be more by way of pure assistance. Then at page 25 they give the number of foreign-controlled concerns, which in 1954 amounted to 3,361. Finally I would direct attention particularly to the table found at page 84 which shows that in 1953 less than one-third of the petroleum companies operating in Canada were controlled in Canada and that more than two-thirds were controlled in the United States.
That is the background, and it establishes two things; first, things have got to the point that the American ambassador thinks it proper to intervene in Canadian domestic issues, and finds it extraordinary that Canadians should be concerned over the extent of American control; second, the figures contained in this bureau of statistics survey which show that in manufacturing, mining and petroleum, which are the three areas of most rapid development in Canada, from one-half to two-thirds is now under American control. It is with that background that we must assess the situation and on the basis of which we charge the government with most serious dereliction of 'duty.
Mr. Speaker, it is perhaps not surprising that the government should be open to this charge because, after all, they are but continuing in the present the pattern which they

have followed over many years. Let us look at that pattern for a moment. I should like to spend rather more time than I have at my disposal in tracing the pattern of American thought and their attitude toward this problem, not on the basis of hostility to them but because I believe it is essential to take a calm and dispassionate look at the trends which are revealed by the developments of history.
It is a fact that the Americans have, by and large over the years, almost unconsciously adopted the attitude that the North American continent belongs to them. They are friendly with us; they want to see us co-operate, but always in the back of their minds has been the thought-and I believe it is still there- that by some sort of predestination they are ordained to be the controlling factor forever. That is not just by virtue of their position south of the 49th parallel, but by extension of their influence, directly and indirectly, north of the 49th parallel. They believe that they are to control the North American continent.
We have seen in the past the attempts they have made to control Canada. There were military attempts starting back with the raiding parties in the days of the American revolution. Then there was the war of 1812, when they made an attempt at military conquest. There were the Fenian raids of the 1850's and 1860's. Then having abandoned military attempts, they undertook political attempts. We from the west remember the slogan "54-40 or fight". Had it not been for those who believed in the preservation of a Canadian nation north of the 49th parallel, British Columbia as it now exists and parts of the other provinces would be part of the United States.
Then there followed exertions and activities in the economic sphere. There were attempts looking toward commercial union in the 1880's. There was the attempt by blackmail to acquire control of the Canadian Pacific Railway. One has only to read that chapter of Creighton's recent biography of Sir John A. Macdonald to appreciate that the Americans, knowing a good thing when they saw one, were attempting to gain control of the Canadian Pacific Railway and resorted even to blackmail in an attempt to do it. In spite of the efforts by the party of which my hon. friends opposite are the successors to hand over the control of that great enterprise to the United States, it was Sir John A. Macdonald and his dedication to the idea of a Canadian nation that was successful eventually in resisting these economic attempts, which even resorted to blackmail.
The Budget-Mr. Fulton
There are some interesting bits of history in this connection. I should like to place before the house some quotations which one finds in a very excellent book compiled by Mr. Hamilton of our own library staff, entitled "Canadian Quotations and Phrases". On page 3 of that book one finds the following quotati