On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the ways in which Canada can become involved in the results of foreign affairs decisions made at Washington, has the minister made any effort to ascertain whether Mr. Dulles' "brink of war" statement in Life magazine of January 16 represents United States foreign policy? Has the minister any comment to make on Mr. Dulles' statement?


Mr. Speaker, I received notice of this question just before coming into the house. As to the first part, I would merely point out that Mr. Dulles takes no responsibility for the article in question except those parts in which he is directly quoted. In so far as the particular paragraph is concerned to which I believe my hon. friend makes reference, Mr. Dulles, at his press conference yesterday in Washington, clarified and amplified the meaning of that paragraph and I think no further inquiry on our part, in respect to that particular paragraph, is required.
So far as the second part of the question is concerned, Mr. Speaker, I have no comment to make on the statement. Some of the matters dealt with in the article might be touched on by me in the review of foreign affairs, which I hope to be able to make at an early date.


On the orders of the day:
May
I direct a question to the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) ? In view of the inflamed situation existing in the Middle East, will the Prime Minister cancel the export permits to send additional planes to Egypt?


Mr. Speaker, no consideration has been given to the question of cancelling the
export permit for these training planes and I know of no reason for reconsidering the matter and coming to the conclusion that the export permit should be cancelled.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson), arising out of an answer he gave yesterday respecting the recognition of the people's communist government in China. Is the minister prepared to give an assurance that the government does not at the moment contemplate early recognition being given to that government? Secondly, has he been in touch with the United States government recently, suggesting that something be done towards the recognition of that government by the United States government?


Mr. Speaker, this is, of course, a very important question of government policy and, if there is anything I can appropriately say in regard to it, it will be during the statement on external affairs which I hope to be able to make shortly.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Sinclair) or his parliamentary assistant, which is based upon a report that it is proposed to move the biological station from St. Andrews, New Brunswick, to Halifax, Nova Scotia. Is it the intention of the Department of Fisheries to move the biological station at St. Andrews, New Brunswick, to Halifax, Nova Scotia? If so, would the minister give his reason for such a move being made?


Mr. Speaker, I received notice of this question only as I came into the chamber a moment or two ago. May I say to my hon. friend that I think there has been a recommendation made that certain phases of the work done at
248	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry St. Andrews be moved to Halifax. I shall be glad however to look into the matter and give an answer later, particularly to the second part of the hon. member's question.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Did the provincial government of British Columbia approach the Department of Citizenship and Immigration for permission to enter on Indian land for the construction of a bridge approach through the Westbank Indian reserve? If so, was such permission granted?


Mr. Speaker, I understand that the provincial government has made a cash offer to the Indians for certain land for the purpose of building this bridge but I do not believe any permission has been asked to build the bridge. Permission was asked and granted to a provincial surveyor to make a survey.


Is the minister aware that Indians armed with shotguns are keeping government employees from the property?


No, I was not aware of that. In fact I would have been very alarmed if I had been.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence if the Department of National Defence is continuing the policy of automatically laying off civilian employees when they reach the age of 65 years and, if so, how does that fit in with the program of the Department of Labour for the continued employment of senior citizens.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to thank the hon. gentleman for giving me notice of his question. In answer to the first part may I say that the Department of National Defence does not automatically lay off people at 65 years, but we do regard 65 years as the normal age for retirement. However, when an employee reaches the age of 65 years and indicates that he wishes to continue working, each particular case is
IMr. MacNaught.J

considered on its merits, the man's usefulness, his ability to discharge his duties and whether a favourable decision would be helpful to him. I may say in this connection that a fairly high proportion of civilian employees who wish to continue working after 65 years of age are in fact retained by the department.
In reply to the second part of the question, I would say that I think the policy of the Department of National Defence in this regard is in accord with the program of the Department of Labour and with the practice in other government departments.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs if he can inform us whether the question of postponing further thermonuclear tests until the report of the United Nations committee on the genetic effects of fall-out is received was discussed at the recent meeting of the United Nations assembly. If so, what was the attitude of the government of Canada to such a proposal?


The question of the postponing of thermonuclear tests was discussed at the recent meeting of the assembly of the United Nations and the committee referred to by my hon. friend was set up. However, I am afraid it will take the committee some time to present its report.
The position taken by the Canadian delegation, headed by the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Martin), was that we would agree to any postponement or cessation of tests of this kind, but only as part of a satisfactory disarmament scheme which would include adequate provisions for inspection and control. As the house knows, the Canadian delegation to the United Nations has been doing its best to bring about such a satisfactory scheme, especially through its membership on the subcommittee of the disarmament commission, the meetings of which will be resumed shortly.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Would the

Minister of Agriculture inform the house as to whether or not the privilege of purchasing butter at 21 cents a pound below the support price has been extended to all welfare institutions operated by provincial governments across Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for having given me notice of his question, and in reply to state that the answer would be yes if it were not for one phrase used. The phrase used is "has been extended". I am not certain that they have all made application but, if the word "available" were substituted for "extended", butter at 21 cents less has been made available for any institution, whether government or otherwise.
At the same time I should like to say that the fact that it is 21 cents a pound cheaper has made very little, if any, difference to the consumption of butter at those institutions.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I thought for a moment I was sitting on springs. I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Defence Production (Mr. Howe). Could the minister inform the house how far the CS-2F production program at the de Havilland plant in Toronto is behind schedule?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend has spoken of the CS-2F. I shall have to consult counsel to find out what program that is.


I understand the hon. member for York West wishes to clarify his question.


Perhaps I might identify the plane in question as the plane required by the Royal Canadian Navy.


Mr. Speaker, I shall make inquiries. The only delay would be due to the de Havilland strike. I understand the components manufactured in outside shops have not been delayed and I am under the impression that the completion date of the program has not been set back.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Defence Production. I have not given him notice but
Inquiries of the Ministry he will know the answer. It is prompted by an article in the Globe and Mail headed, "Weapons of Influence; Drew Says Contracts Used to Keep Liberals in Power."


Order.


My question is: Was the placing of contracts by the dominion government carried out so honestly and was it of such service to the country as to have the profound influence it did in the last election?


I may say there are no political implications whatever in the placing of contracts by the Department of Defence Production.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Defence. Has there been a change in the policy of the department, involving a reduction in the number of days for which reserve army personnel can be paid for training? I ask this question because I understand an order has been issued in western command reducing the number of training days for reserve army personnel to 30.


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of that. I shall look into the matter and advise the hon. member.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. In view of yesterday's announcement by the banks indicating a decline in money being available for housing, would the government consider again supplying a portion of N.H.A. funds as it did before the first session of this parliament?


Mr. Speaker, I will take the hon. member's question as notice. I will be glad to bring it to the attention of the minister, who will be back tomorrow.

Inquiries of the Ministry VETERANS AFFAIRS


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs relative to the Department of Veterans Affairs office in Kingston, Ontario. Is it the intention of the Department of Veterans Affairs to reduce the district office of the department at Kingston, Ontario, to a sub-district office, and have the documents of the district office at Kingston been parcelled up and transferred to Toronto and Ottawa? If so, what is the reason for this change?


It is the intention of the department to reduce the Kingston office to the status of a sub-office, and I believe this decision is being implemented at the present time. The decision was reached following a survey of the work load in that particular district and because of the decrease of the work in that office it was decided that it would be both more efficient and more economical to reduce the office to the status of a sub-office. The personnel will be decreased by about 25,
I believe. Part of the work will be done in the Ottawa district office and part of the work involving the county of Northumberland will be done in the Toronto office.


Has the minister received any protests from any veterans organizations in Kingston opposing this move?


No, sir.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,
I wish to raise a point of order. It concerns the manner in which questions on the orders of the day are being asked. I understand that in asking questions on the orders of the day the intent of a question must not be the imparting of information but simply the asking of a question.
What I have in mind is a question asked by the hon. member for Okanagan Boundary (Mr. Jones) this afternoon. As a supplementary question he asked whether the minister was aware that Indians on a certain reserve have taken up shotguns, apparently against the provincial officials.
I do not object to the question but the purport of the question is that a statement has been made which may result in a wrong interpretation. We do not know whether or not
[Mr. Bourget.I

the statement is true, and it could be interpreted that a sort of civil war has commenced between Indians and provincial government officials.


Get it in the movies. Call in Hollywood.


I do not know what all the gabble is about.


The kids will love it.


That information is given. I think we have a right to know the source of that information. Otherwise it may cause some considerable reflection upon individuals and, in this case, perhaps upon the British Columbia provincial government.


In answer to that statement may I say that the information was given on the C.B.C. news this morning.


If I may speak to the same point of order, Mr. Speaker, I should like to say this. Earlier the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam (Mr. Regier) asked a question in which he said that the banks had made a certain pronouncement with respect to lending on mortgages. While I do not profess to be fully informed about what the banks do, I am reasonably certain that I would have been informed of this development. However, it is my impression that only one bank stated that its portfolio was now full of mortgages and that it was unlikely to have additional money for mortgage lending.
This question was put in the form of the banks' announcement and I am sure-at least I speak subject to correction-that the bankers' association did not say there would be no more bank lending on mortgages. I say that only to emphasize the point of order, namely that some questions are placed in the form of a statement of fact and that they are never caught up with if they are in that form and happen to be wrong.


Perhaps I might take this opportunity to inform the house how fully I appreciate the basic difficulty whenever question time comes along. As hon. members know, the same rules apply to questions asked orally and to written questions placed on the order paper after notice. There is a long list of limitations as to the type of questions which may be asked before the orders of the day are called. They are to be found at page 119 of Beauchesne's third edition. Although they are not obliged to do so, hon. members sometimes, through courtesy, give notice to the minister who is to reply to the question. Sometimes I myself receive a copy of the notice, for which I am grateful.

Most of the time, however, I do not get a copy of it. I do not complain about this matter because hon. members are not obliged to give me notice. But I cannot judge a question until I have listened to it. Once I have listened to it, if I see that the minister is ready to reply, I feel that it is his wish and that of the house generally to have the question dealt with.
There is no doubt in my mind that some questions contain a great number of unverified facts and should be prohibited before the orders of the day are called. If I were to interpret the rules in the way in which they should be interpreted and if I followed the previous rulings given over the years by my predecessors and reported at page 119 of Beauchesne's third edition, I think I could cut off about 95 per cent of the questions that are asked. Such action would be interpreted as extremely drastic action on my part. I myself do not see how we can properly give justice to hon. members who from time to time complain about the manner in which these questions are being asked.
I would ask the hon. member for Macleod (Mr. Hansell) to realize that I agree with him but I would ask him to put himself in my position and to realize how difficult it is for me to enforce, in the way in which they should be enforced, the rules of the house with respect to these questions.
Perhaps I might venture a comment which some hon. members may feel to be uncalled for. I will risk making it, depending upon the indulgence of hon. members. We often hear some hon. members say that the British system with regard to question time is better than ours. May I say that in the British house no question may be asked without previous notice. I myself would much prefer that system.


Mr. Speaker, I would not want it to be thought that I was criticizing your decisions or your work as Speaker of the house, because I certainly would not do that. All I am suggesting is that when questions are prefaced with statements, we at least have the right to know the source from which the statement comes.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Finance in his capacity as house leader? Can he say when arrangements will be made for the debate on external affairs to which his colleague, the Secretary of State for External Affairs, made reference yesterday and again today?
Inquiries of the Ministry


hope this debate will be ended earlier than the last possible date, namely a week from today. Should it not be ended until that time, then we can arrange a suitable time shortly after that, not next week but perhaps in the following week.


On the orders of the day:
wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue, of which I have given him notice. Did any member of the government of British Columbia request time on station CBUT in Vancouver for political purposes in the Vancouver Centre by-election? If so, did the regional director in British Columbia refuse that request?


I wish to thank the hon. gentleman for having given me notice of his question. I am informed by the C.B.C. that the government of British Columbia did not request time, paid or otherwise, on station CBUT for political purposes in the Vancouver Centre by-election.


On the orders of the day:
Would the Minister of Finance advise if the government has changed its mind with regard to its refusal to help finance the Beechwood hydroelectric project in New Brunswick?


feel, Mr. Speaker, that this is one of those questions that might very properly be put on the order paper or be the subject of debate. It seems to assert a policy about which, to my knowledge, I have not said anything in the house. I shall have to examine the question to see what answer is required.


The house resumed, from Tuesday, January 17, consideration of the motion of Mrs. Shipley for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Drew, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Coldwell.
The Address-Mr. Yves Leduc (Translation):
Mr. Speaker, in a page where friendly writer Legouve extols the merits of women, I came across a remark which has remained engraved in my memory: "Our glory is the outcome of a smile". When I heard the hon. member for Timiskaming (Mrs. Shipley) move the address in reply to the speech from the throne, I understood that beyond her smile which promised intellectual brilliance she had put in her speech a large part of her heart. Had it not been for the warmth of the speech of the seconder of the motion, I believe that she would have shattered the secular belief in man's intellectual superiority. Rather than dispute an opinion proudly held by so many human beings, may I be allowed to offer my warmest congratulations to my hon. colleagues of Timiskaming and of Belle-chasse (Mr. Laflamme) for a performance that was brilliant from the oratorical, intellectual and political points of view. The honour and glory which they reaped on that occasion will unquestionably earn them the abiding confidence of their electors.
(Text) :
May I be permitted, Mr. Speaker, to congratulate the mover (Mrs. Shipley), in her own language, upon the excellence of her speech in moving the address in reply to the speech from the throne. It is a tribute to her, not only on account of her personality and the fact that she is the only lady sitting on this side of the house, but it is also a tribute to every woman in Canada.
With your permission, Mr. Speaker, I shall continue my remarks in my mother tongue with the reservation that I shall conclude my speech in English, in order to show my affection and respect for my English-speaking colleagues in this house.
(Translation):
Last year I had the honour of moving the address. In my remarks pertaining to the electoral constituency I represent, I stated that there was only one important federal public service missing at Verdun, namely a post office that would adequately meet the essential needs of our greatly increased population. Without any delay, and perhaps to give the lie once more and in a tangible way to the unjustified and vague critics of some members of the opposition, our government, with its customary wisdom, understood the urgency and seriousness of the situation. Preliminary plans were prepared; the final plans were completed and the contract was granted to the lowest tenderer, without any political interference or influence, which greatly


honours the honesty and conscience of the present administration. Preliminary work has just started and we hope that, before the end of 1956, the new Verdun post office will stand in all its glory for the benefit and advantage of my fellow citizens. I wish once more to express my most sincere gratitude to the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Winters) and to his faithful and devoted parliamentary assistant (Mr. Bourget). The late lamented Hon. Alcide Cote contributed in no small measure to the realization of a project close to my heart. In my unworthy prayers, I reserve for him a heartfelt and grateful remembrance.
It is therefore with real pleasure that I wish to associate myself with the words of His Excellency the Governor General of Canada who, in the speech from the throne, stated with good cause that:
Various departments and agencies of government have sought to arrange their construction programs to provide more employment during the winter season.
Further on, this speech reveals an aspect of the social policy of this government and demonstrates its great readiness to relieve human suffering through changes in the National Housing Act and increased aid toward slum clearance and rehabilitation of the blighted areas of our cities. That is, Mr. Speaker, one of the best means of fighting juvenile delinquency; I am sure that the Canadian nation will join in the praise and congratulations which I am glad to extend to the administrators of this country. The working and underprivileged classes of society will also benefit from the paternal support of a state which unstintingly seeks the common good. Since we have touched upon the question of charity, would it be too much to wish that, as far as practicable, the hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Harris) will, at this very session, lighten the burden of the taxpayer stricken by illness either personally or through his loved ones, by amending the Income Tax Act in order to allow the deduction, from the income of individuals, of all medical expenses.
At the opening of last session, I felt it my duty to appeal to the noble feelings of the members of the opposition and to invite them not to scream out loud without reason, not to exaggerate the seriousness of our national or international problems, not to try deliberately to provoke unrest and confusion in the minds of the population, to avoid preaching defeatism and not to ignore the explanations, the advice and the generous efforts of our government.

Every one in this house remembers however that most members of the opposition, particularly those of the official opposition, displayed their well-known pessimism by maintaining that there is widespread and acute unemployment in this country, and that Canada is heading towards bankruptcy. Together with many members from this side of the house, I protested vigorously against a stand or an attitude so prejudicial to the welfare and to the reputation of the Canadian nation. No, Mr. Speaker, it was not logical to talk about acute unemployment and distress in the country when there was only underemployment of a regional and seasonal nature, when our economy remained buoyant, when salaries and the standard of living were high.
I was glad last week to hear from the very representative of the Queen of Canada that the year just ended has been the most productive in our nation's history, that more men and women have been employed than ever before, that our harvests have been abundant, and that our trade has exceeded all earlier levels.
Unlike that of its opponents, the policy of the government is to work in a quiet and efficient way, and to spread, as usual, a rightful optimism. Against defeatism, it casts its energy, its power, its courage, its work and its victory; to mere talk, it opposes action and tangible achievements; in the face of depressing criticism, it shows its record of achievements and good deeds, the fruit of its labours, its competence, its will to fulfil the social mission that was bestowed upon it by Providence for the welfare, peace and happiness, not only of the Canadian nation, but of the whole of humanity.
May I be permitted, Mr. Speaker, at this stage of the session that has just begun, humbly to express some suggestions and wishes of a purely practical nature.
Competent engineers are working at the present time, following suggestions made by interested localities, on the plans of a bridge which is to be built in Verdun, as I hope, or in the immediate vicinity, to connect both banks of our national river, in conjunction with the gigantic undertaking of the St. Lawrence seaway. Would it be premature at this time to wish that this piece of architecture be called "Louis St. Laurent bridge" as a tribute to the dynamic personality and the prestige of the present head of the Canadian nation, or just to commemorate the beneficial repercussions of his journey around the world
The Address-Mr. Yves Leduc during which he was rightly acclaimed and was able to note the marked progress towards his objectives, which is the recognition, by the other nations of the world, of our distinctive national identity, of the broadmindedness of Canadians and of their desire to fraternize with their fellow men. This, Mr. Speaker, is merely a personal suggestion which I wanted to put forward in my anxiety to avoid the trouble recently experienced with regard to the construction in Montreal of an up-to-date building, though devoid of the characteristics of a castle. With respect to this, I still trust that the management of the Canadian National Railways, who are solely responsible in this matter, will reconsider, if not for historical and patriotic reasons, at least in order to avoid certain inconveniences with regard to the transportation of tourists which may result from the existence of another hotel bearing a similar name.
Along the same lines, Mr. Speaker, and without wishing in the least to kindle racial prejudices of any kind, may I make so bold as to request the government, within the framework of its responsibilities, to see to it that those responsible for the filling of federal positions in Montreal and in other centres of this country, apportion these appointments with a view to providing adequate representation for all parts of the population, with regard to racial origin, while having due regard also for the ability, availability and effectiveness of candidates as well as for the rules and regulations in force at this time.
Public opinion and religious authorities have been quite concerned, for some time, and more precisely for a few months past, over the banefulness of certain immoral publications circulating throughout this country at the present time. True the federal government has done its part in the enacting of section 150 of the Criminal Code which concerns the entry into this country of obscene published material and its production, printing, distribution, circulation or possession. However, I thought it my duty, as a Christian and head of a family, to make this appeal in the house to the interested parties, in particular to the printers, distributors and dealers of these venomous publications, asking them to have the courage of their convictions and to work for the safeguard of the moral health of our people, especially of this the most tender section of our population, our children, this human capital that it is
254	HOUSE OF
The Address-Mr. Yves Leduc our duty to mould, guide, encourage and feed, not with poison, but with the best cultural vitamins that we must administer to them intelligently. Quite often, in the course of electoral campaigns, speakers hold up cavalierly and on the least provocation the flag of autonomy and respect for the constitution. Well, Mr. Speaker, in the name of this autonomy, is this not for me an excellent opportunity to urge provincial censorships, where they exist, to use the necessary means at their disposal with a view to effective and constant respect for the law, if the ones responsible for its application are moved by a sincere desire to make use of this autonomy for positive, definite and moralizing results.
Mr. Speaker, I would not want to resume my seat without saying that right-thinking people in our country are convinced that our government, in administering the affairs of the country, shows the will to develop "our conquering energy" in the establishment of a true Canadian spirit, invigorated by the culture of our two great races and being, through its very existence, a source of peace, happiness, prosperity and fulfilment for our nation and for the community of free nations. The present government knows that its essential mission is to establish and maintain peace, the basis of all public happiness, through justice and the defence of the freedoms and the rights of everyone. It knows also that its supplementary mission is to replace private enterprise when it is found wanting or when its means are insufficient. Through legislation that has stood the test of life and of experience, our government ensures the progress and development of the nation and the stability of internal peace.
Following the first world war, an eminent French scholar, moved by all his country's misfortune, said:
To survive, France must grow.
Well, Mr. Speaker, the same applies to Canada for we have all the necessary elements of greatness. We have a vast territory; our population is constantly increasing, our inland navigation is growing and will further develop as a result of the deepening of the St. Lawrence river; we have a long seashore where we can build harbours that could serve powerful fleets to facilitate and provide uninterrupted commercial exchanges. But such industrial and commercial development is not sufficient. To be worthy of itself, to promote peace and harmony among its members by means of a truly Canadian mentality, the Canadian nation must, through moderation, tolerance, work and know-how, make that


mentality acceptable to all groups and all nationalities. To achieve that noble goal, men on the political and intellectual battlefields must give leadership and keep that goal constantly before the eyes, the intelligence and the will of the people so that freeing itself from the grips of prejudice and fanaticism, and understanding the perils of the future, the whole nation may marshal all its forces, energies and determination and bring together, so as to give life to the great ideal of Canadian greatness, all those who, under confederation, wish to go on living and ensure the greatness of our country, Canada.
(Text):
Mr. Speaker, as I promised, I should like to repeat in English the conclusion of my remarks in French. Following the first great war it was said by a highly cultured Frenchman that if France wanted to continue to live she must become greater. The same can be said of Canada, for we possess all the necessary assets to ensure our greatness. We have an immense territory, an ever-increasing population, inland waterways which will assume much greater importance with the development of the St. Lawrence seaway, an immense coast line along which can be built harbours capable of accommodating powerful fleets which will facilitate trade.
However, industrial and commercial development will not suffice. In order to retain its self-respect, to promote peace and harmony between its members through the development of a true Canadianism, the Canadian nation must by its moderation, tolerance, hard work and skill bring all groups and all nationalities to the acceptance of such Canadianism.
To achieve this noble ambition the soldiers on the intellectual and political battlefields must give leadership, must always direct their eyes, their intellects and their wills toward the objective to be reached in order that, freeing themselves from prejudice and fanaticism and realizing the dangers with which the future is fraught, our people will consolidate their forces, their energies and wills and rally under the standard of Canadian might all those who under the aegis of confederation wish to continue to live and to ensure the greatness of our country.


Mr. Speaker, I rise today to say a few words on what 1 believe to be one of the most important speeches made in this parliament during the session, the speech from the throne. The people of this country wait most intently for the delivery of the speech from the throne, in other words, for words from the

government as to what people in all walks of life may expect in the way of management of the country's affairs.
It is or should be a guiding speech so that great industries may know whether to expand or curtail their production, so that the farmers of this country can make up their minds as to what crops they should specialize in. Our distributors of commodities from coast to coast await very intently the delivery of the speech from the throne. The people are entitled to know what the government intends to do on their behalf, at least from year to year. The government has available in the dominion bureau of statistics greater sources of information on world conditions, world production and, more particularly, Canadian production than any other group of people in this country. If people do not furnish to the dominion bureau of statistics information that is as nearly accurate as possible, they can be fined or imprisoned for not furnishing such information. It is compulsory. The gathering of this information is for the specific purpose of keeping the government posted.
After all, who' is the government? The government is the Canadian people. So the bureau of statistics is gathering this information for the Canadian people. From the speech from the throne I cannot see, for the life of me, any semblance of information for the people of Canada that has necessitated to any degree the bureau of statistics.
One item was the trans-Canada highway. That was old 20 years ago. That was initiated to give the unemployed young men 10 cents an hour, or $5 a month. It is something we should hide and forget about; it is a disgrace. We have men sitting in parliament today who worked on that project and received that kind of money, for wheeling muck from one mound to another and back again. That project should have been completed 15 years ago in a country like Canada. It would have been completed 20 years ago if we had had either a Liberal or a Conservative government in power with enough gumption and initiative to do the proper and decent thing. Everyone knew 20 or 30 years ago that the trans-Canada highway was a necessity. Look how they have handled it. Now they bring it out in the year 1956 as something great for the future. It is something of the past that we are going to do in the near future, everybody hopes.
The next item is the trans-Canada pipe line. It has been pulled apart, rebuilt, discarded, started east, north, south and in all directions, and finally we find it now in the 1956 budget. What kind of guidance is that from the bureau of statistics, who are the servants of
The Address-Mr. Ferguson the government of Canada? Is it a guide as to what course the government should follow this year?
A most important item, immigration, has been forgotten. That is something that never gets old. Selective immigration will always be a "must" for the Dominion of Canada, certainly for the next 75 to 100 years. Only in today's newspaper we see that there exist in this country shortages of materials and labour. We have had no guidance in the immigration department of this government since the war. When one man admits failure, they give him another cabinet job. The greater the failure is, the more promotion he gets in his next job.
For a long time we were told there were not sufficient ships to bring to this country artisans who could do a job. Shortly after the war many desirable immigrants from many desirable countries in the world wanted to come to Canada, but there were not enough ships to bring them-people from England, Ireland, Scotland, Germany, Switzerland, Holland and Italy. We screened them to see if they were farmers, barbers, butchers, bricklayers or other types of workers that this country could absorb. Now we find ourselves faced with a tremendous surge forward in the growth of Canada, short of people to operate Jhe country. If that is foresight, I do not want that kind of foresight.
There is an item that should have been foremost: coping with the prosperity of this country. It is very funny to listen to some of our Liberal members speak on the budget. They point their finger to the opposition and say, "In one breath the opposition say there is great prosperity in the country, and in the next breath they say it is going to the dogs". As this is not the case, I will say now that there is the greatest prosperity in Canada today that this country has ever enjoyed.


Hear, hear.


You are applauding a little too soon, gentlemen. That is your trouble. You are willing to applaud and pat yourselves on the back when the country is enjoying only half the prosperity it should be. That is the Liberal gauge for prosperity for the people: "Half of what you should have is sufficient for you." Half of the prosperity to which this country is entitled, according to the Liberal government, is sufficient for the people of Canada. That is not my opinion about the prosperity of this country. The prosperity of Canada today should be twice or three times as great as it is. There is virtually no limit to what this country's prosperity should be in the year 1956.

The Address-Mr. Ferguson
I noted when my hon. friend from Fort William (Mr. Mclvor) spoke yesterday he suggested there should be a new post in the cabinet, the minister of peace, and that the minister of external affairs would be the very man to suit that position. May I suggest another post for the Liberal cabinet: the post of Moses. He would give this country the guidance and prosperity it needs. The Liberals are very prone to forget that the cabinet of the government of Canada has assumed the position of the great Creator. They smile and stick out their chests as if they had put the oil in the ground in Alberta. They are taking the credit for the iron ore being put in the ground in Quebec and Labrador.


No, Mr. Manning put the oil in the ground in Alberta.


They forget about God and say it is the cabinet of this government that has the credit for having done all this. If they reflect quietly about this, the people of Canada will realize that the great credit for the prosperity of Canada has been brought about by individual corporations and men with vision and confidence in the country and in the development of its natural resources. That is what has brought prosperity to Canada from one end of the country to the other. But the Liberal government, which is responsible for immigration and for keeping in pace with the national prosperity resulting from the resources of this country, has fallen down badly on its job. No matter how obvious the needs of this country, this government has done nothing to create any spark of prosperity. What has the government done that they should claim any credit? You hear them talk about the schools they are building. One C.C.F. member from Saskatchewan who spoke yesterday said, "If it was not for the federal government what would Saskatchewan do without schools?" Let me say this to him. The government is only giving back to the people of Saskatchewan money that they were forced to entrust to them. He spoke as if the federal government was making a gift to the great province of Saskatchewan. He did not even intimate, he asserted, that if the Conservative party were in power the province of Saskatchewan might lose their sources of money for education and that their educational standards would probably drop. How absolutely ridiculous and unfounded such a statement is!
Can anybody in the world conceive of any ten men in the House of Commons, irrespective of politics, cutting down or curtailing the educational system anywhere in Canada? A man who makes such a statement does so


deliberately to mislead the public or for want of something to say, and I think the latter was probably the case yesterday.
There is a perplexing problem mentioned in the speech from the throne, the problem of wheat. Here is where the Moses of the cabinet comes into the picture. The Moses of the cabinet stepped forth and said: "Moses is going to lead you into the land of promise; it is a godsend we have got all the wheat we have and no place to put it." Oh, what a Moses! Everything is going to be all right. Let me remind the Moses of the cabinet and the government that after the war European countries wanted all the wheat and other food commodities they could get but they did not have the necessary Canadian dollars to buy these commodities. Therefore they did everything in their power to plant wheat from which to make flour and thus replace to a degree the finest wheat in the world produced in this country simply because they could not buy our wheat. Through dire necessity, not having the money to buy our wheat, not having the Canadian or United States dollars, they began raising their own wheat.
In France 70 million bushels have been produced this year and in other parts of Europe 100 million bushels. The British Isles are almost producing enough wheat to fill their requirements. We sat back in 1953 with a crop of inferior wheat. We piled it into our granaries. We used all available storage space for that wheat when we should have sold it at a reasonable price for cattle feed. We should have got rid of it. We should have released the space knowing the positive fact that that wheat was not suitable wheat for flour. We should have taken 70 cents a bushel if necessary and made space available for the wheat crop of last year.


Tell the farmers that.


I am sure that the members of the government, with their tongues in their cheeks, are hoping that the Good Book will come true and that there will be seven years of plenty and seven lean years.


And grasshoppers.


If that occurs, and the old Bible is never wrong as far as I am concerned, then the government will get off the hook. They will be saved but they will be saved through Providence and not because of their vision or their proper management of the country's affairs. As sure as you are a foot high, if that prediction is one year out all the assets we believe we have in the form of wheat, for which the farmers are not being paid, will not be worth very much. I say

that if the farming community of the Dominion of Canada is not prosperous the factories will not continue very long to produce the commodities that our farmers normally purchase. Men will be laid off in our machine shops. The motor car industry will not be talking about a tough time due to a strike. It will be talking about a tough time due to lack of sales. We in the provinces of Quebec and Ontario will feel the results. We felt them in the thirties.
It is all right to talk about the terrible thirties and say they will never recur. Nobody wants them to recur and we can avoid the conditions of the thirties to some extent if we give the people of Canada some guidance as to what they should be able to do for the next 365 days. They are intelligent, industrious people. The government can and should give the Canadian people the proper guidance. They should give the Canadian people their head, give them the resources God gave them, and we will not need any nonsensical talk 30 years hence about the trans-Canada highway or the pipe line.
What a speech from the throne we listened to this year! What an incentive for the people of Canada! I have listened to quite a few speeches from the throne and in my opinion the present one is the poorest, the most sparse and bare speech that has even been delivered. In a year of prosperity there is no guidance for the future except from the Moses of the cabinet who says that our wheat is a great asset. It is like some people who had a few million dollars in the thirties. They had a great asset, but the great majority of the people were suffering from want, and that is what is happening today.
It is all right to tell the farmers of the country it is a great asset but we should be selling feed grain to eastern farmers in Quebec and Ontario at a reasonable cost and clearing our granaries for first-class flour grain which we can hold in readiness for the lean years that are bound to come. Do not continue to fool the people of Canada because the greatest sufferers, the people who will feel the sharpness of defeat, are the men who sit on the Liberal benches, particularly the members of the cabinet. They have missed an opportunity, a great chance, to do something as businessmen instead of spending their time changing one cabinet minister from one post to another.
During the last election campaign they paracftd a galaxy of pictures and said, "Look at all the wonderful men we have to fill the cabinet posts." Take a look at the posts today. They are almost all changed. With the exception of two, none of them occupies the same post, and one of them has been in 67509-17
The Address-Mr. Hollingworth every position in the cabinet in an effort to bolster up the brilliance that was depicted to us by the Liberal government during the last election. Some brilliance! Some cabinet!


Mr. Speaker, today I should like to make a few remarks concerning the guaranteed annual wage. Possibly it might be more pertinent to discuss wheat or the pipe line at this time but full-scale debates will be coming up in these fields soon which will afford me the opportunity to participate and make my contribution at that time, and also this debate is of course a general one.
Before I bite into the core of my remarks, however, I should like to make a few comments about matters of interest to my constituents and also to touch very briefly upon the international scene. First, may I congratulate most warmly and sincerely the mover (Mrs. Shipley) and seconder (Mr. Laflamme) of the address in reply to the speech from the throne upon their excellent contributions. May I also congratulate the new Postmaster General (Mr. Lapointe), whose department is so important to my constituents. Finally, I should like to congratulate the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) and his colleagues for their effective governing of the country in both external and internal affairs since the house prorogued last July.
I feel, Mr. Speaker, that the Post Office Department, which has been criticized in the past, should be voted a hearty "well done" for the excellent job carried out this past Christmas. In my part of the country great credit should go to the postmaster of Toronto, Mr. Harry Lawrence, the various local postmasters, the inside staffs and, last but not least, to those tireless, good-natured and indispensable men, the letter carriers. They deserve the best but often I think they are the unsung heroes of the communications world. We in York Centre are grateful that approximately 40,000 more people now receive letter carrier service than received this service in 1953. There are still pockets which are not being served and there are also some brand-new subdivisions, but I feel sure that the Post Office Department will assist us in this regard and will render to us the effective and efficient service given us in the past.
I said that I would allude briefly to foreign affairs. I discern that the government is playing a more positive role in world affairs at the present time and this course I vigorously applaud. One might mention the trip of the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) to the Soviet union and Asia and also one might mention the brilliant work of


The
leader of the house told us today, Mr. Speaker, that within the next two or three weeks there would be an opportunity to have a debate on external affairs. That being so,
I want to speak today about the situation in the Middle East. I do so for this reason.
I want to advance certain propositions and to ask certain questions of the minister which he will have time to consider and which perhaps he will be able to answer.
The situation in that part of the world has become increasingly tense in the last few months, although judging from the Prime Minister's answer to my question today the right hon. gentleman did not seem to be too much aware of it. His Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Pearson) is, as is illustrated by 