On the orders of the day:
should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs if he is prepared to make a statement on the situation in relation to the Suez canal. Would he also advise whether, in view of the unprecedented and shocking conduct of the Nasser government, Canada ought not to join with Britain in condemnation of what has taken place there in a perversion of international contracts, and also indicate to Britain and the other nations Canada's agreement with the stand which they are taking to meet this situation?


Mr. Speaker, the violation by the government of Egypt of an international convention governing the use of an international waterway so important as the Suez canal is, of course, to be condemned. Possibly it should be recalled at this time that the convention in question attempted to safeguard the free use of the waterway in war and in peace. In that sense, the convention was already violated by the Egyptian government when Israeli vessels were prevented from using the canal.
We are exchanging views with governments probably more directly concerned with this matter than the Canadian government because of their association with the Suez Canal Company. I think it would be premature for me to make any statement beyond that at this time, except possibly to repeat what I said yesterday in answer to queries from the press as to whether Canada had any interest in this matter. In reply to those queries I said that while Canada had no share in the ownership of the Suez Canal Company, nevertheless as a trading nation, and for other reasons I might add, we have a very real interest in the efficient and nondiscriminatory operation of this waterway which is of such great and historic importance, both in peace and in war. I added that we would regret, and be concerned about, any action which interfered with such operation.


Might I just add a supplementary question? Does not the minister consider that Canada, as a member of the British commonwealth, should have something to say on a matter that particularly affects the members of the commonwealth, Britain, Australia and New Zealand particularly, to indicate a degree of unity in regard to this matter?


Mr. Speaker, we have already had something to say on the matter, as I have indicated. And I should add that our High Commissioner in London, since the announcement of Egyptian action, had discussions in London with the secretary of state for commonwealth relations, with the foreign secretary and with the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom with a view, not only to ascertaining what United Kingdom policy is in this matter-and they are more directly concerned than we are because of their share in the ownership of the Suez Canal Company-but also to doing what we can to concert our attitude and policy with other commonwealth countries on this matter.


May I ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs a supplementary question? A report in the Ottawa Journal last night indicated he had made a statement to that paper that Canada would be making no representations on the Egyptian nationalization of the Suez canal. I would like to know from the minister whether that statement is correct, and if so whether he does not think that, because this question is of such vital importance to the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and probably India and Pakistan as well, and France, and because of the position being taken by the United States beside those countries, Canada, too, should stand beside them and let the whole world know that she does?


Mr. Speaker, I think what I said yesterday to the press, certainly what I intended to say, was that we had not made any formal representations at that time to the Egyptian government. What we may or may not do in the future remains to be determined; but I believe also that the only governments that have made such formal representations at this time are the governments of the United Kingdom and of France, which have a very special interest through

Inquiries of the Ministry ownership of the Suez Canal Company and in other ways. I do not think at the moment that any other state, including the United States, has made such formal representations. Certain states, Canada is one of them, are consulting together to see what action, if any, should be taken by them collectively on this matter.


Why should the Canadian
government not make known today that Canada stands beside the United Kingdom and France in this trouble?


Amongst the views which are being exchanged with the United Kingdom, will the minister, on behalf of the government, stress to the United Kingdom the importance of using the good offices of the United Nations in an attempt to solve this problem?


Mr. Speaker, our High Commissioner in London has already stressed that aspect of the question in his talks with the United Kingdom government.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works or to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources, whichever one has jurisdiction. It has to do with the No. 1 trans-Canada highway in Banff national park. I have had complaints about the authorities there oiling that portion of the road from Anthracite hill into Banff. They tell me it is just a sea of oil and that the tourists are greatly perturbed, and so is everyone else, because of the effect it has not only on their cars but on their clothing as well. The same thing happened before during the tourist season, and the minister took action in that regard. Surely it should not be allowed to continue at this time. I wish the minister would make some remarks about it.


I shall look into it, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. Can the minister tell the house whether there have

been any further developments regarding a decision of the Ontario government to charge tolls on the Burlington skyway bridge, and its effect on the federal government's participation in the cost of that project?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know whether the provincial government has decided to charge tolls on the structure, but I believe they do propose to construct it by themselves without federal government financial participation. There was a discussion yesterday in Toronto among the mayor of Hamilton, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Frost, Mr. Allan, the minister of highways, and myself. We discussed some of the aspects of this bridge as they apply to present and longterm civic planning. As far as I know, however, it is the intention of the provincial government to build the structure by themselves.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Has the government yet received from counsel any recommendation concerning the report of an alleged combine in the manufacture, sale and distribution of beer in Canada?


Not as yet.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to redirect a question to the Minister of Public Works with reference to a complaint from the mayor of Prince Albert with regard to present mortgage regulations. Has the minister received that complaint and what is the attitude of the government with regard to a relaxation of the present regulations to the end that the detrimental effect upon house building across this country will be resolved to a great extent?


Mr. Speaker, I did receive a letter, which I believe was dated July 20, and it has been replied to. No restrictions have been placed upon housing by Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation. The fact is

that earlier this year we increased the interest rate in an effort to encourage a greater flow of mortgage money into housing and it is expected the result will be a good housing program in Canada this year.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Public Works. Has the minister received a copy of an order in council recently passed by the Quebec government and printed in the Gazette this morning and, if so, will that be sufficient to enable the federal government to complete its arrangements and make advances to Montreal for a slum clearance and housing project there?


I did receive a copy of the order in council. The situation is as I stated a few days ago. The premier of Quebec stated that in principle his government had no objection to entering into an agreement with the federal government for a slum clearance project and a subsequent re-housing project. It is now a matter for the civic authorities to come to an agreement with the provincial authorities and I presume steps are being taken to that end. I expect that in due course we shall have a proposal put before us coming through the appropriate channels.


supplementary question. Does the minister feel that complete agreement has now been reached and the necessary authorization given by the province in order to permit action by the province and the federal government?


No agreement has been
reached. All I have so far is an indication of intention to sign an agreement.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the minister a supplementary question. How can there be an impartial investigation when only those who are connected with D.V.A. are conducting the investigation? Surely they should be outside D.V.A.?


These three officials who are collecting the facts will present them to the minister and I am quite sure that with their experience they wifi be able to collect all the facts.


They are officials of D.V.A.?


Yes.


They can hardly be impartial.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL HEALTH AND WELFARE Welfare branch-
Family allowances and old age security_
278. Administration, $2,693,059.


Mr. Chairman, when the committee adjourned last night I had been discussing a set of figures found in the report of the welfare council of Winnipeg. These figures, to be found at page 16 of that report, have to do with the amount of money which it is felt an old age pensioner ought to have in order to be able to live in Winnipeg in anything like comfort. The figures are as follows:
Per month
Rent	 $20
Rood	 30
Clothing	
Church	 2
Medical insurance	or	care	
3Memberships and	hobbies	
5Transportation	
4	50Incidentals	
5Laundry	
2
I had pointed out that those commodities or services are all produced in Canada and I believe that every item is produced in Manitoba. I had suggested that it is most fantastic that in a country with probably

Supply-Health and Welfare $28 billion of production this year and with Vast potentialities for the production of food, clothing, shelter and practically everything else that Canadians ordinarily use, we should not be- able to allow our senior citizens a sufficient amount of that production to give them the amount of money value called for in this set of figures.
I had pointed out the fact that although members of this committee had been talking about this matter of old age pensions for some time, mostly they had complained about the conditions which prevail but had not offered any solution whatsoever to the problem. Then I pointed out that the member for Fort William at a certain point, almost in indignation, I thought, rose and asked which one of the taxes, or something to that effect, we would suggest should be increased in order that we should obtain the money that is necessary to provide the senior citizens of Canada with the standard of living that I think everybody in this house realizes and agrees they should be able to have. I suggested that it would not be necessary to increase any taxes in order to provide the services and the goods which the elderly people need.
I mentioned the "made-beaver" which the Hudson's Bay Company used. These "made-beavers" were like coins. The largest one had a value of a mature beaver skin dressed. With these tokens, and the smaller ones made by dividing them into halves and quarters, the people in those days all through the west apparently took care of all their needs for the distribution of goods.
Then I referred to the scrip system which was employed in the stores in the towns near where I grew up as a boy in southern Alberta. I thought it might be interesting to give a little attention to that local scrip as probably embodying a germ out of which a method of distribution of goods to underprivileged could be developed without adding to the regular currency circulation of the country.
There were two stores in the little community of Cardston. At that time Cardston was a village of probably 350 people, with about 150 in the neighbourhood. One of the two stores in Cardston was H. S. Allan and Company, general merchants and store, and the other was the Cardston Co-operative Mercantile Company. Each of these employed a form of scrip.


What year was that?


I would imagine around 1896-7, and they continued to employ this scrip with considerable freedom until around 1905. The member for Peace River suggests that it was probably a little later, somewhere around 1910. Then it began to be rumoured

that in using the scrip they were violating the currency laws of Canada. Consequently that was probably the main reason why the use of scrip gradually was discontinued, but there were merchants in Raymond, about 40 miles from Cardston, who employed scrip,
I think, a little later than that.
What was the principle in scrip as used by, we shall say-


Order. May I with some regret break in at that point and state to the hon. member that we are not now discussing the principle of scrip? We are discussing the principle of devoting some $2,600,000 to family allowances and old age security administration. I should appreciate it very much if the hon. member would devote his remarks to that subject.


Mr. Chairman, I should like to point out that technically you are entirely right but realistically you are entirely wrong. Yesterday we discussed old age pensions, and I think every member in this house would be fully agreed that we should double the old age pension. But everybody was agreed-I think including the minister-that the one thing we just could not get over was how to finance the increase. If, in discussing old age pensions, a member cannot discuss the methods of financing, we might just as well close this house up as far as finding a solution to the problem is concerned, and turn it into an afternoon social society, confessing immediately that we are just helpless and that there is no use. Why should people all over the country send a lot of people like us here to talk about problems which, even before we approach them, are admitted as being utterly unsolvable.


Mr. Chairman, I wonder if I might say this. I think we all appreciate the great care which the hon. gentleman has given to the study of this question of assistance to the aged citizens of our country. Last night I had an opportunity of discussing matters with him after he had intervened and I am more confirmed than ever of that interest. I appreciate his position in trying to find additional ways of obtaining resources to meet these obligations. However, I wonder if he would not agree that the chairman was perhaps on strong ground when he suggested that there was another place to discuss the means by which this very desirable objective could be met. I do not want to be unduly restrictive on the hon. gentleman but I think he will be assured of my belief in his interest in this subject, and I want to affirm that great concern. But there is not

at this moment an opportunity of discussing ways and means of how this financing can be adequately arranged.


Mr. Chairman, I have no desire whatsoever to be out of harmony but I will make this point. If somebody had suggested that in order to obtain the needed money we increase the sales tax on some commodities, it would have been looked upon as being utterly in order for us to talk about that matter for probably three or four hours.


No.


Oh, yes. No question at all would have been raised. The point raised by the hon. member for Fort William was a matter of financing. I imagine he could have gone on dealing with that matter for 15 minutes without being called to order. While I am perfectly ready to agree with your ruling, Mr. Chairman, and to do just as you say, I contend that on this particular topic the enforcement of that rule means that we turn this parliament into an afternoon debating society absolutely helpless to deal with the problem which we are discussing. I shall therefore be obliged to leave the matter up to you. But I will go on to say that if I could have just another two or three minutes to show how that scrip worked, I do not think it would be infringing greatly. It would not take very long.


Order.


If I might continue, H. S. Allan and Company would have probably had $500 worth of scrip printed by some company and he would use the units of scrip to buy butter, eggs, poultry, boots, various vegetables, various grains, firewood and all manner of things that were produced by the community, and people could go in there with that scrip and buy out of the store what things they needed, including even homemade socks, bootees, home-made clothes and all things which the community produced; and the community was able to produce a wide variety of commodities in those days because they still were able for instance to make yarn out of the raw wool and to knit that yarn into clothing and so on. So, there was relatively a very extensive field for the use of that scrip. They went on with great success. There were units of that scrip which were in circulation, I will wager, for a year and a half. People did not hesitate for a minute to take that scrip for their eggs or butter or any other commodity they turned in. People did not hesitate a minute to accept scrip in payment for articles, for labour, one to another. It functioned just as well as Canadian dollar bills.
Supply-Health and Welfare
Now, my suggestion is that an organization could be set up in every city and town of any considerable size in this country, having anything like a wide range of productive potential, which would enable old age pensioners to be paid the extra portion of their old age pension in scrip with which they could buy commodities being produced all around the area. In this way I feel positive that, having the co-operation of the dominion and provincial government, as well as the local municipalities, we could find a solution not only to the question of giving our old age pensioners what they ought to have, but also the problem of giving our blind all they need as well as all other underprivileged in the nation a chance to participate more adequately in the productive capacity of the country. There would be a much greater production of butter, fruits, vegetables and of other commodities because of the possibility of selling those commodities for scrip. Now, in substance, that is the gist of my message. Unless there is something that I have not been able to determine I will assure the house that this system can work in every province of this nation with the greatest advantage and with tremendous savings to the taxpayers of the country.
Now, that is in substance the message I wish to convey. I should like now, for just a moment, and I am sure there will be no objection on anybody's part, to list again those needs of ordinary old age pensioners as the Winnipeg council enumerated them. The first is rent, $20 a month. I am quite positive that in no city in Canada can a person obtain a room that is fit even to house swine for less than $5 per week. That is pretty well settled. A person is extremely fortunate if he can get a room for $5, heated and with light and all the other things which are necessary. Then, there is food, $30 per month. Let every hon. member in this house just contemplate what the effect upon him would be if he could spend no more than $1 a day for food. That is a very serious thing to think about, especially if he had to eat in restaurants or other public eating places. What chance would he possibly have of nourishing himself adequately on a dollar a day? Even if he engaged in light housekeeping and cooked his own food, he would have the costs of cooking to take into account, like fuel.
The next item is clothing, $10 a month. Perhaps a person could clothe himself on less than that; I do not contend about that. Then, you come to church, $2. Is there any conceivable reason why a person who has been a faithful churchgoer and who desires to contribute to the upkeep of his church,

Supply-Health and Welfare should not go on contributing 50 cents a week merely because he has exceeded 65 years of age? Is he going to be denied the privilege of doing that all the rest of his days? I do not think anyone will say that $2 a month is excessive. Then, consider the $3 item for medical care, and bear in mind, Mr. Chairman, that when a person reaches the age of 65, frequently he needs special medicine in order to keep well. He will be very fortunate indeed if he can buy the things which he needs to keep himself well for $3 per month. For example, there is now a little pill containing vitamins. One of these preparations is called paramettes; we can buy 50 of them for $3.50. If we take one of these a day it is guaranteed to give us all the vitamins which the body requires. But there is $3.50, and that is only one of the things a person should have in an age like ours. It was different before we had learned how to make such aids as these tablets, but to have a person suffering from malnutrition today because he does not have the money with which to buy the blessings resulting from the work of modern science hardly conforms with any concept of good government. I think we will all agree that $3 per month is not excessive for that item. Then, $5.00 for memberships and hobbies. Memberships in clubs-is the old age pensioner, when he reaches the age of 65, and from then on until he dies, to be denied the privilege of being in a club and paying his club dues? Is he to be denied the opportunity to buy some wood or perhaps other substances to indulge in a hobby? If we say yes, we are making ourselves very cheap.
Then, there is transportation, $4.50. With the price of transportation at the present time, $4.50 is by no means excessive. Elderly people are at the very age when they could use transportation greatly to their satisfaction, and should use it. We come then to incidentals, only $5. Shall a person who has reached the age of 65 not be able to buy birthday cards for his children, not be able to buy Christmas cards? Those are just a few of the incidentals. Should he not be able to go into an ice cream stand and buy a dish of ice cream? Well, that is what we are condemning them to on $40 a month. Now, S2 per month is allowed for laundry. I think that is not excessive.
I do not think I will repeat the items, but let every hon. member go back over them in his mind and he will find that every single item-unless it should be the paramettes or something of that sort-is produced right in this country. It is Canadian made. Why should people not be given access to the goods Canadians can make in abundance in any

one of the wonderful provinces of this country? I suggest in all seriousness, Mr. Chairman, to the minister that we approach this matter with a positive attitude. We are doing too much negative thinking in our country altogether. We are rationing poverty when we have no right to think in terms of poverty in this land of abundance. We should be thinking positively. I will say this in reference to what the minister said. He felt that there was another place where I might more fittingly discuss this matter of financing. I am glad the committee and the chairman have permitted me to discuss it a little bit right here. Old age security is a subject we are all deeply interested in, but it is a problem which we do not know how to solve, and which I am sure every member in this house knows must be solved unless we leave our old age pensioners by the tens of thousands all over the country in penury and suffering, in malnutrition with resulting disease and early death. That is exactly what it means.


I am extremely sorry to interrupt the hon. member but I am obliged to advise him that his time has expired.


Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will come on again later.


Shall the resolution carry?


Mr. Chairman, those who have taken part in this debate with respect to the senior citizens, the blind, and the handicapped people in our country have all repeatedly emphasized the need of increasing the pensions of those people, and I should like to join with them in their plea and ask that the minister reconsider the matter and give such increased pensions at this time.
A few moments ago the hon. member for Lethbridge completed his remarks, and I thought that he put across one point very well, namely, that we humans can certainly behave very strangely. Here we recognize the needs of those people and acknowledge that the time has come for parliament to consider and improve the inadequacies of benefits for those people, and yet we do absolutely nothing about it except perhaps next year when an election has to be fought. May I remind the minister that these pensions are the sole source of income and livelihood for many people in our country. How they manage to live on the pension is beyond me, and yet they must. It is unfortunate that the present administration has not been able to see its way clear to increase the pensions of those people this year, not as charity or a give-away program, but as a fulfilment of the guardianship responsibilities which we have toward those people.

We acknowledge that we have done a great deal for those people, but I think too little acknowledgment is paid to the fact that of all the segments of our society it is those people who are benefiting least from the prosperous times in which we live.
The minister has made repeated references to the impressive figures as being an indication of what we are doing for those people, but I think he has given us very little of the other side of the picture, the increased revenues of this government, the piling up of surpluses and the increased cost of living. Might I just remind the minister that in the year 1952 the Canadian population was some 14,430,000 persons, the gross national product in millions was 23,255. On a per capita basis that wealth was distributed amongst all persons in Canada to the extent of $1,615. In 1955 the Canadian population was some 15,881,000, the gross national product in millions was 26,600, which means that on a per capita basis the distribution of the wealth amounted to $1,673. I feel that the increase in wealth in this country ought to be made available by an increased pension to these people.
I think there is a great deal of significance in the tone of the debate that has been carried on with respect to those people. All members are in agreement, and I think that opinion prevails throughout our country, certainly amongst all who recognize we have a solemn responsibility toward this segment of our society. Therefore, I believe, Mr. Chairman, that the minister, having all these compelling facts in front of him, knowing the situation as he does and supported by the unanimous opinion of this house and of the country, should not be timid in insisting that those who are in opposition to an increased pension at this time reverse their opinions and make such pension increases available now.
I had no intention of taking part in this debate. This morning I received a very interesting address made by Robert B. Meyner, governor of New Jersey, which was delivered at the national conference on problems of the ageing in Washington on June 5, 1956. The theme of his address was the re-evaluation by our society of the entire concept of old age. The address is entitled, "The Rights of our Senior Citizens". I think it has a definite message and is timely at this time, and I should like to quote from it as follows:
I am reminded of a story found in a poem about a Mr. Arrents, who was the father of seven children. Mr. Arrents worked hard all of his life to feed, clothe and educate his children. Once in a while throughout these hard-working years, Mr. Arrents would sit back and muse about that one fine day when he would be able to relax and enjoy life-to retire and, so to speak, live off his children. Time passed. The children grew up and left home. "Ah", Mr. Arrents now said to himself.
Supply-Health and Welfare "The time has come to retire. The children," he said, "are all making a good living. Now let them support me in my autumn days as I cared for them for so many years".
And so, he called on each of his seven children. But from each one came the same answer: "Honestly, pop, I just can't do it."
Then, Mr. Arrents turned and went back to the task of finding support for himself. As he did, Mr. Arrents was struck by the ironic thought that it seemed to be much easier for one parent to support seven children, than it was for seven children to support one parent.
In a symbolic way, each of us today is one of those seven children. For like them, we have been unable, for one reason or another, to care properly for a vast army of older parents and grandparents, many of whom played a great role in caring for us. We have neglected, instead, this vast population of older people, many of whom, because of our neglect, are living lives that are isolated, lonely and useless.
Just one more matter, Mr. Chairman; I would appreciate hearing from the minister what consideration has been given to reducing the residence requirements of those citizens, who are Canadian citizens, who have reached the age of 70 years and yet are unable to qualify for a pension. What consideration has been given to reducing the residence requirements of those people? It seems to me the moment that anyone becomes a Canadian citizen he has certain definite responsibilities. The least we can do is to at least make available to them the privilege of being a Canadian citizen by reducing the residence requirements of the aged persons. Would the minister care to comment on that?


Mr. Chairman, I would just like to say a word on that subject if I might and ask the minister to reconsider the matter of the residence requirement. As the hon. member who just sat down said, these people come to this country and many of them make an excellent contribution to its welfare over a considerable period. Their children take on where they leave off and produce and pull their fair share of the load in making this a better and more prosperous place in which to live. Even if we cannot eliminate the residence requirement perhaps it could be reduced to 15 or 10 years in order to give these people a little additional help and comfort in their later years. Many of them have lived very deeply overseas and suffered hardship and some of them cruelty and their children often bring them here to enjoy the later years of their lives in a country where they can worship and live in freedom. I think it is a matter which is worthy of serious consideration and I urge upon the minister that he give it his kind attention in the months that lie ahead and perhaps at some future time introduce an amendment that would take care of the situation.

Supply-Health and Welfare


Mr. Chairman, I have one question I would like to direct to the minister. This is a matter I mentioned when I spoke yesterday. Is the minister contemplating any action in response to the request for guiding allowances for the blind?


Perhaps I could now deal with these things, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the hon. member for Lethbridge for the care which he has given to this matter as have other hon. members.
As I said yesterday, we are all interested in the matter of old age security and I feel it is a question which rightly has engaged the attention of the committee. I am proud of any particular opportunity I have had as the Minister of National Health and Welfare during the past few years to deal with this matter. This is the field in which I have been privileged in the name of the government to bring forward very substantial reforms in raising the amount and increasing the income ceiling to the point where we have doubled the pension in the period in which I have had the opportunity of serving in this department. I am not taking any credit for this; I am simply mentioning it.
We are at a point now where 43 per cent of our whole departmental budget is for the assistance we give to the aged. No country in the world is using as much of the departmental budget for its aged citizens as is Canada.
Everything that is said about the difficulties of the aged is fully appreciated, I am sure, by every hon. member of this house no matter where he sits. These grants are maintenance grants. They could not possibly provide, as no social security measure does, for the full maintenance of the group concerned; however, I can assure the house that this particular matter is receiving very active attention on my part and on the part of the department.
There are a number of things we have in mind. I do not know whether or not we will be able to bring them forward but I can assure the house there is no problem that concerns me more than this particular one. My only comfort in the matter is that we are now providing on federal account 95 per cent of the total cost of pensions in Canada, something close to $400 million for assistance to 870,000 people today as compared with about 90,000 three years ago. That represents a tremendous achievement. The house may be assured that the matter will continue to receive all the interest I can possibly give it.
With regard to guiding allowances, that is a matter which has to be taken into consideration with the provinces because it is

a joint proposition. There is to be a meeting of the interprovincial board in the month of October or thereabouts when that and some other considerations we have in mind will be discussed.


Mr. Chairman, may I ask the minister a question? What about the blind who are 70 years of age and over? This has nothing to do with the provinces and is purely a federal matter.


Yes, I know, but it has to be taken into consideration as it will be.


The question has been raised of the review of the residence requirements for these applicants for old age pensions. I have taken the matter up with the minister privately on two or three occasions and I would like him to comment on the representations made by the hon. members for Edmonton East and Davenport.


I indicated that yesterday. The hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra raised that question last night and I indicated to him that that matter was being considered along with several other suggestions that he made. I am aware of that problem and it has to be considered along with our assistance program because the period of residence is the same for old age assistance and for old age security. In the former case, because there is provincial participation, we have to consult the provinces. We try to make these things as uniform as we can. The hon. member may be assured, as may the hon. member who raised it and the hon. member for Davenport, that it is being studied.


Item agreed to.
Civil defence-
281. To provide for the civil defence program, $7,010,018.
Mr. Chairman, when the
estimates of this department were before the estimates committee very careful con' sideration was given to the items dealing with civil defence and many hours' discussion took place. We appreciated the minister's frank statements during those discussions and particularly the day when we were in camera. It is not my purpose, therefore, to speak at any great length today on this subject of civil defence.
During those discussions in the committee the members of that committee from this party made our position quite clear. We believe that reasonable steps should be taken to keep the nation informed as to the nature and the effect of damage which might be caused from the explosion of thermonuclear bombs should another global war take place and those devastating weapons be used. We

do not believe the situation is such that there should be anything done which at the present time would create any hysteria and we think the minister is adopting a cautious attitude in this respect. We consider it advisable that research should continue as to the best method which might be employed in order to limit the casualties and the damage which might be done both in the area of the bomb explosion and also in the larger area which would be affected by the fall-out.
During the discussion in this committee we noted the excellent work which had been done by members of the civil defence organization in almost every province in connection with disaster relief and the emphasis which has been placed by the co-ordinator of the civil defence and the civil defence generally concerning the training for disasters which might occur and which arise from acts of God rather than from war. We believe that work should be continued.
There does appear to be somewhat of an anomaly and perhaps the minister would devote some consideration to this matter with a view to removing it. The anomaly is in connection with the compensation that can be paid to civil defence workers.
It was pointed out during the committee's discussion that civil defence personnel if injured when carrying out training or civil defence exercises would be compensated for their injury or loss of time which might arise from it. On the other hand, however, if civil defence personnel are injured when called out to assist a province or municipal authorities in connection with some disaster which has occurred, they do not receive any compensation because they are dealing with an actual disaster rather than a civil defence exercise or training.
I pointed out at the time that service personnel, personnel from the armed services who might be working alongside the civil defence personnel, would of course receive compensation for any injury they might receive but civil defence personnel do not.
I hope it will be possible to review that situation between now and the time when the estimates are brought down at the next parliament to see if that anomaly might be removed. Otherwise we are satisfied that reasonable steps are being taken to keep the public informed and to consider what action should be taken in the event of the disaster of war being brought to this country and thermonuclear bombs falling on Canadian targets.


Mr. Chairman, I wish to
make a few brief comments on this item and I can assure the minister they will be very brief.
Supply-Civil Defence
As he knows, I represent a district where civil defence efficiency is possibly as high as in any area of Canada owing to the cooperation of the municipalities, the industries and the employees concerned. They have been organized very effectively to serve also in the case of disaster which is an aspect of civil defence which I feel has to be emphasized in order to retain public interest over a continuing period of time.
I want to ask the minister this question. A representative from my district was down here about two weeks ago to take a course at Arnprior. He understood when he came that he was to take a course in what is called orientation, whatever that is, and also in administration. He spent a week there and took the course in orientation and then he was told that unfortunately the course in administration would be coming on later in the year and so he would have to go home.
I just bring this up because it appears to me that this is a waste of public money. This man tells me it cost about $300 to bring him from a point in Kootenay West to Arnprior to attend the course. He thought it was a very poor arrangement that would require him to go back again because an additional $300 would be required for him to return to take the course in administration. I bring this to the minister's attention because I think it is most unfortunate for those who are giving their time voluntarily to take part in this work to get the impression that money is no object with respect to the federal administration of civil defence.


Mr. Chairman, I want to make just a brief statement, but first I should like to thank the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich for the assistance he has given in this matter, both today and in the committee where we had a most thorough discussion. I also want to thank him very much for the tribute he paid to the civil defence coordinator and those under him throughout the country who are faced with a difficult problem and are doing their best in carrying out what is perhaps one of the most difficult assignments of any modern government.
Before dealing directly with one aspect about which I have indicated to the committee I would say something, I should like to say to the hon. member who has just spoken that I shall make careful note of the situation he has described. If the facts are as related by him, and undoubtedly they are-


As given to me.


-they will certainly be corrected. I can assure my hon. friend and also the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich that

Supply-Civil Defence the question of compensation which he raised in the committee has been considered in the interval but no official decision as between treasury and the provinces has been reached.
The hon. member raised the question of evacuation a few months ago. I discussed this matter in the committee and there are certain comments I should like to make. As my hon. friend knows, these matters are discussed with NATO and with the United Kingdom. We now believe that our civil defence should be based on the development and testing of plans for the orderly evacuation of the main urban areas in our country should the possibility of attack on such areas by nuclear weapons appear to be imminent. Our military authorities have now advised us that it must be anticipated in any major war that the North American continent would be attacked with high-yield nuclear weapons with little if any warning.
Accordingly our civil defence policy must be so designed as to ensure the survival and safety of as many of our population as would be possible in the event of nuclear attack on this country.
In arriving at this decision it was necessary to take into account a number of factors such as the nature and yield of enemy weapons which could be delivered, the degree of warning to be expected, the density of population of the country, in particular the probable target areas, and finally transportation and other resources waiting for survivors.
It may be assumed that in any major war we would not likely be the scene of primary vital air battles. No doubt a number of enemy aircraft carrying nuclear weapons for delivery on targets in the United States and Canada would fail to reach their targets or be shot down over our country. We have to take all these things into consideration. Under such circumstances the bombs carried by those enemy aircraft would almost certainly be delivered against our larger cities as targets, what might be termed second choice targets, or jettisoned and detonated almost anywhere in the country.
On the other hand, we have certain advantages as compared with other countries. We have only a limited number of cities and we have wide spaces. The two problems which face us are, first, how to ensure the survival of our population in the large Canadian cities in the face of high-yield nuclear weapon attacks against them and, second, how to provide the whole population with protection against radioactive fall-out resulting from the use of nuclear weapons.
The policy of evacuation undoubtedly is a gigantic one. We are certainly-and when


I say "we" I mean all of us-far from reaching the stage of perfection in the execution of its technique. But it has been advocated by the United States government, whose problems of evacuation are more difficult than ours, and by other countries, and there is now a gradual shifting of the emphasis from shelter in the direction of evacuation.
All available experience and tests show that, whilst it is difficult, it is a feasible thing to do, particularly for the smaller centres. It is unlikely that complete evacuation can in all cases be achieved prior to the initial attack, owing to the limited amount of warning available. However, since most of the enemy's targets are most likely to be in the United States, there is reason to hope that there would be at least an opportunity to continue the evacuation of some target areas in Canada for a few hours after the initial attack on North America has begun.
In any future conflict the problem, of course, is one of survival. The first few days of nuclear warfare would be the worst. If we could survive these few days we might possibly survive the conflict itself. So, because of these things, the considerations of NATO and so on, we have decided that plans should be developed for the evacuation of the following areas in our country:	Montreal,
Toronto, Ottawa-Hull, Windsor, Niagara Falls, Halifax, Vancouver, Hamilton, Winnipeg, Edmonton, Quebec city, Saint John, New Brunswick, and Victoria. It is a gigantic job; it has already been begun. All that I am saying is a reaffirmation of the tests that have been carried out.
My hon. friend in the committee, I thought made a very helpful suggestion, which we have taken into account, when he referred to the question of progressive evacuation. I can tell him after considering what he said that it is likewise our view that a wholesale evacuation of the entire population of a city after the alert is sounded is not necessarily practical or necessary. Instead we have planned for what he has described as a progressive evacuation. In other words, if it should become evident that there was a general deterioration in the international situation that suggested the probability of attack, that would be the time to move out parts of the population not absolutely necessary to the life of the community, people like the mothers, the small children, the sick and elderly people.
I have discussed in the committee, and there is no need to go over, all the various phases which would be attached to the concept of progressive evacuation, phases a, b, c, and d. I would not want the house to be

misled into thinking that we are in a position to do all of these things. We have carried out certain tests at Brandon, Calgary, Brock-ville and St. John's, Newfoundland. We are now giving some consideration with the United States to another evacuation.
This is a very difficult problem, but at the present time in the face of this cataclysmic potential-let us put it that way-there is nothing we can do other than to think in these terms. That is the view of other NATO countries which recently had a meeting; the collective view was that we should go on doing our best in the free world with these plans, perhaps predicating our view that in such preparations we were providing a deterrent of some sort, a discouragement of some sort, an insurance premium in any event, that might mean that some day these things would never be necessary.
The provinces are playing their part in this matter, generally speaking, and so are the communities. In what is admittedly' a very difficult assignment, I am sure we shall continue to do the best we can. There can be no activity that would result, if war ever broke out, in our being able to save everyone. All we can do is minimize the blow and be prepared to minimize the horror that would result.
Again I wish to thank my hon. friend and the members of the committee for the valuable discussion and the help every one of them gave in this very difficult matter.


I wish to thank the minister for the statement that he made regarding compensation for those defence workers. I certainly hope that the active consideration that he said was being given comes to a satisfactory conclusion and that those people do obtain compensation for their time and the damage and so on that they may suffer in the line of work, because those people are doing a wonderful service to their community and to Canada in general. They willingly give their time and labour in order to see that the communities in which they live are looked after in the event of not only an atomic attack or an enemy attack but, as has been pointed out, cases of a civilian disaster. The training they have received along those lines is the kind of training necessary for them to carry out their jobs in the best possible way.
Now I wish to make one suggestion to the minister. With regard to evacuation, I notice in the larger cities in the United States the highways are generally marked, "This highway will be closed in the event of air attack or enemy attack" or something like that. I should like to put this to the minister, that the highways around the major 67509-4214
Supply-Civil Defence cities in Canada could be marked in such a way, not necessarily that they will be closed but so that they will be laid out in a systematic way and so that some highways will lead in and some out. As far as a disaster area is concerned, they should be clearly marked in that way and left marked at all times so that the people in those areas, in the event of a disaster or an air attack, would know exactly which highways they would be able to take out of the area. Then there would not be interference with assistance or reinforcements coming into that area.
I cannot think of any more orderly way to carry out evacuation. In the evacuation of an area, we all know that the biggest trouble comes about as a result of people flocking out of the cities and getting in the way of reinforcements and assistance coming i