When is it proposed to have the formal opening of the new Department of Transport building at the Windsor airport?
Mr. MacDonald, Parliamentary Assistant, for the Minister of Transport: Mr. Speaker, in reply to starred question No. 18, the formal opening of the building will take place next spring, by which time additional paving, landscaping and fencing work will have been completed. As the hon. member for Essex East (Mr. Martin) knows, the building is now in partial use.


1.	Does the government or the maritime commission subsidize a ferry service to Pelee island in lake Erie?
2.	Is such ferry service not wholly within the bounds of one province?
3.	Does the government subsidize any other ferry or shipping services wholly within a province, and if so, what are they?
4.	Does the government subsidize the ferry service between Portugal Cove and Bell island, Newfoundland?
5.	If not, what reason is there for a federal subsidy to a ferry in Ontario which does not apply equally to Newfoundland?
Mr. MacDonald, Parliamentary Assistant, for the Minister of Transport: Mr. Speaker, the answer to part one of this question is yes.
The answer to part two is that this service is extended during the summer months to Sandusky, Ohio.
The answer to part three is yes, such services being as follows: Vancouver and northern ports of British Columbia and Queen Charlotte islands; Baddeck and Iona, Nova Scotia; Grand Manan and the mainland, New Brunswick; Halifax, Canso and Guysboro, Nova Scotia; Halifax, Torbay, lie Madame and ports on west coast of Cape Breton island, Nova Scotia; Ile-aux-Coudres and Les Eboulements, Quebec; Ile-aux-Grues and Montmagny, Quebec; Mulgrave and Canso, Nova Scotia; Mulgrave, Queensport and lie Madame, Nova Scotia; Murray Bay and north shore of the St. Lawrence river, Quebec; Owen Sound and ports on Manitoulin island and Georgian bay, Ontario; Pictou, Mulgrave
and Cheticamp, Nova Scotia; Quebec, Natash-quan and Harrington, Quebec; Quebec or Montreal, Gaspe and Magdalen islands, Quebec; Rimouski, Matane and points on the north shore of the St. Lawrence river, Quebec; Riviere-du-Loup and St. Simeon and/or Ta-doussac, Quebec; Sydney and Bay St. Lawrence, Nova Scotia; Newfoundland coastal steamship services.
The answer to part four is no, although this matter has been considered from time to time, and I might say that the hon. member for St. John's East has several times brought the matter to the attention of the department.


By the previous hon.
member.


With regard to part five, there is no such reason; each application for subsidy is dealt with on its own merits.


Question No. 21
What functions are performed by Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Company Limited with respect to (a) awarding of construction contracts on the crown financed gas pipe line route eastward from the lakehead; (b) assuring proper performance of work after award of contract?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is as follows: (a) Under the provisions of an agreement dated May 30,	1957 between
Northern Ontario Pipe Line Crown Corporation and Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited, Trans-Canada shall make available such information and advice as the corporation requires in the placing of contracts for the construction and the purchase of materials and equipment. The approval of all such contracts rests with and shall be in the name of the corporation. It is a provision of the bylaws of Northern Ontario Pipe Line Crown Corporation that unless the approval of the treasury board is first obtained, the corporation shall not enter into a contract involving any expenditure in excess of $50,000.
(b) Under the provisions of an agreement dated May 30,	1957, between Northern
Ontario Pipe Line Crown Corporation and Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited, Trans-Canada is responsible for the direct field supervision of construction subject to the over-all supervision of Defence Construction (1951) Limited on behalf of the corporation.

Questions


Norih):
1.	Will there be any reduction of T.C.A. staff in Winnipeg as the result of impending transfers?
2.	Have any employees agreed to move to Montreal? If so, how many?
3.	What will be the situation of employees who, due to family commitments, find that they cannot transfer to Montreal?
4.	How many individuals were in the employ of T.C.A. in Winnipeg on June 1, 1947, 1952 and 1957?
5.	As the result of departments closing down or being removed, how many employees have been moved to Montreal in the last 10 years?
6.	Have any employees lost their jobs as the result of their being unwilling to change their place of residence? If so, how many?
Mr. MacDonald, Parliamentary Assistant, for the Minister of Transport: Mr. Speaker, the management of Trans-Canada Air Lines advises that in regard to part 1-


Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege, would the hon. gentleman speak into the microphone so we can all have the advantage of hearing what he is saying.


The management of Trans-Canada Air Lines advises that, in regard to parts 1, 2 and 3 of the question, the answer is that there are no transfers impending. As to part 4 the answer is 1,422 on June 1, 1947, 1,500 on June 1, 1952 and 1,881 on June 1, 1957. The answer to part 5 is 226, and as to part 6 the answer is yes, 14.


1.	How many penalties for default in filing returns have there been under section 125 of the Companies Act in 1955, 1956, and to date in 1957, for (a) public companies; (b) private companies?
2.	How many private companies are in default at the present time for 1950 returns?
3.	What officer of the crown initiates action under subsection 4, section 125 of the Companies Act?
4.	How many certificates were issued in 1956 under subsection 7, section 125 of the Companies Act?


Mr. Speaker, I have a reply to this question. It is rather lengthy and incorporated in it is one small statistical table. I wonder whether the hon. member would agree to this being made an order for return.


Could it not be placed on Hansard?


Is the minister requesting that it be put on Hansard?


Whichever you wish, Mr. Speaker; I have no choice.


Is it the pleasure of the house that the answer be put on Hansard rather than being read?


Agreed.
[For answer to question referred to above, see appendix "A", page 1356.]


Question No. 26
Are the waters of the Arctic ocean north of the Arctic archipelago up to the north pole, in the so-called Canadian sector. Canadian waters?


Mr. Speaker, I would ask that this question stand until the return of the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources.


Stand.


1.	Has the Minister of Transport received a request from Canadian Pacific Airlines for landing privileges at Edmonton for their Vancouver-Amsterdam trans-polar flight, so that passengers originating in Edmonton do not have to travel to Vancouver or Yellowknife to make connections with this flight?
2. If such a request has been received what action has been taken?
3.	Has the minister received a request from Canadian Pacific Airlines requesting the department to negotiate landing rights at London for their Vancouver-Amsterdam trans-polar flight so that they may meet Pan American competition which now flies non-stop from Seattle to London via the polar route?
4. If such a request has been received what action is contemplated by the department?
Mr. MacDonald, Parliamentary Assistant, for the Minister of Transport: The answer to parts 1 and 2 is that an application has been received from Canadian Pacific Airlines for authority to add Edmonton to their present Vancouver-Amsterdam air service. This application is presently receiving consideration and will be dealt with in the context of the general review of aviation policy which the Minister of Transport is presently undertaking, and on which he hopes to make a statement shortly.
As to parts 3 and 4, the answer is no.


1.	Under authority of the defence establishment trespass regulations are passes issued to trade union business agents representing: (a) any civilian employees of the Department of National Defence; (b) employees of contractors doing work within the boundaries of defence establishments?
2.	If so, are passes issued in conformity with a general policy of the department, or is the matter entirely within the discretion of individual commanding officers?
3.	H not, what are the reasons that such passes are not granted?
4.	Are any special terms or conditions attached to passes issued to union representatives?

5.	Under section 24 of the regulations, are official trade union notices or statements permitted to be posted?


The answer to part 1 of this question is: (a) yes; (b) yes.
The answer to part 2 is that the issuance of passes is a matter entirely within the discretion of individual officers in command or persons in charge of defence establishments.
In answer to part 3, I would refer to the answer given to part 1 of this question.
The answer to part 4 is that this is a matter for the issuing authority.
In so far as part 5 is concerned, regulation 24 by its terms requires the permission of the officer in command or person in charge of a defence establishment before any notices or statements may be posted in a defence establishment and, like the issuance of passes, is within the discretion of that official.


1.	How many unemployed were registered in (a) Canada; (b) the province of Quebec; (c) the area served by the Montmagny office of the unemployment insurance commission, on or about November* 1, 1957?
2.	How many unemployed were registered in (a) Canada; (b) the province of Quebec; (c) the area served by the Montmagny office of the unemployment insurance commission, on or about November 1, 1956?


In answer to the question asked I may say that as at September 19, 1957, the latest date for which data have been published, the numbers of persons registered for employment at local offices of the unemployment insurance commission were as follows:
(a)	in Canada	
255,896(b)	in the province of Quebec ..	69,227(c)	in the area served by theMontmagny local office ....	969
In answer to question No. 2, the figures for the corresponding date, September 20, 1956, were as follows:
(a)	in Canada	 158,804
(b)	in the province of Quebec 43,653
(c)	in the area served by the
Montmagny local office ..	804


1.	What was the total amount loaned by Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation in the provinces of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, for the year ending March 31. 1957?
2.	What was the total amount loaned from April 1, 1957 to date?
Questions
3,	What was the average amount of each loan and number of units involved for the year ending March 31,	1957, as compared with the period
April 1, 1957 to date?


The answer to this question by the hon. member for Gloucester contains many figures, and perhaps he would be satisfied if we placed the answer on Hansard.


Agreed.


Is the house agreeable to this answer being placed on Hansard.


Agreed.
[For answer to question referred to above, see appendix "B", page 1356.1


1.	At what time and by whom was an inspection made on the trans-Canada pipe line following the explosion near Mortlach, west of Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, on Sunday, November 3, 1957?
2.	What pressure specifications are called for on this natural gas line pipe?
Mr. MacDonald, Parliamentary Assistant, for the Minister of Transport: The answer to the first part of the question is as follows. The board of transport commissioners for Canada advises in answer to part one that an inspection was made on November 6 and 7 by its district engineers.
As to part 2 the board advises that this section of the pipe line is designed for an operation pressure of 826 pounds per square inch.


North Centre):
1.	Has the Minister of Labour, at any time since July 1, 1957, issued any directive or directives to the managers of the national employment service with reference to the finding of employment for unemployed workers?
2.	If so, what were the terms of such directive or directives?
3.	Has the staff of the national employment service been increased since the issue of any such directive or directives? If so, how many additions were made, and at what offices were such additions made?


The answer to parts 1 and 2 is as follows: Upon the request of the Minister of Labour the unemployment insurance commission issued a directive under date of September 20, 1957, to the managers of all local national employment service offices emphasizing the importance which the minister placed upon the job-finding activities of the local employment service offices and giving directions

Questions
for increased activities by local employment service officers to this end. A copy of this circular is available to the hon. member and 1 will see that he is supplied with same.
The answer to part 3 is as follows: No additions have been made to the continuing establishment. There has been an increase in the number of casual employees, which is usual at this season of the year.


North Centre):
1.	Has the government any specific program to relieve unemployment this winter? If so, what is that program?
2.	Has the winter employment committee in Ottawa any executive powers to pursue an employment program on behalf of the government?
3.	What are the terms of reference of this committee and how does it operate?
4.	Are any cabinet ministers members of the committee? If so, which ones?


The answer to part 1 is as follows. There is a specific program the object of which is to increase winter employment so as to alleviate the normal seasonal slump in Canada. The program, known as the winter employment campaign or program, aims at providing an industrial and occupational climate favourable to the planning and execution of projects in the wintertime where possible.
The program, which is being jointly administered by the Department of Labour and the national employment service, enlists the services of national and local organizations, municipal groups and all available publicity media to make employers winter employment conscious. It enlists the support of federal government departments in undertaking new construction, maintenance, repairs and renovations in winter as well as procurement of supplies, where at all practicable. It sponsors a nation-wide information and publicity program.
Through winter employment committees across Canada, working closely with local employment offices, the program is co-ordinated on a nation-wide basis. Successful prosecution of the program is made possible through co-operation by the Canadian Manufacturers' Association, the Canadian Chamber of Commerce, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Canadian Construction Association, the Canadian Retail Federation, the Canadian Bankers' Association, the Canadian and Catholic Confederation of Labour and a number of other public-spirited groups who have lent their willing assistance. Provincial and municipal governments are also cooperating splendidly in scheduling projects in wintertime.
The answer to part 2 is as follows. The interdepartmental committee on winter employment is made up of representatives of a number of departments. Its special interest is in scheduling, where possible and practicable, federal works in wintertime. Its powers are purely advisory.
The answer to part 3 is as follows. This is a committee established to advise cabinet on federal government participation on a departmental level in the winter employment program.
The committee endeavours to obtain information on projects which might suitably be carried on in winter and makes recommendations accordingly. It also attempts to co-ordinate these various efforts on an interdepartmental basis.
The answer to question 4 is no.


1.	Are loans based on the principle applied to the Beechwood project to be available only for projects in the Atlantic provinces?
2.	If not, will all provinces qualify?
3. Are such loans available only for projects owned by provincial governments or provincial crown agencies or will they be available to private power companies sponsored by a provincial government?
I 4. Are such loans available only for new or uncompleted projects or will they be available for refunding obligations of established power projects in the Atlantic provinces?


Stand?


On a question of privilege, sir; this is the last opportunity the house will have to receive an answer on this question before the federal-provincial conference, and surely parliament is first entitled to be told the answer to this question.


Mr. Speaker, this is not the last opportunity; there are several more days, and the answer will be given at any time on orders of the day.


Have we no rights?


1.	Have any transfers of allotments been authorized by treasury board since June 22 in the estimates, supplementary estimates and further supplementary estimates of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources?
2.	If so, how many, and in each case (a) what was the amount transferred: (b) from what heading or project was each transfer made; (c) to what heading or project was each transfer made; (d) what was the reason for the transfer?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to have question No. 97 put by the hon. member for Montmagny-L'Islet (Mr. Lesage) made an order for return subject to the agreement between himself and the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources (Mr. Hamilton) as to the items to be included. I herewith table the return.


1.	Did the international joint commission make a report upon the economics of a route from the St. Lawrence to New York via the Richelieu and lake Champlain?
2.	If so, when?
3.	What were the recommendations?
4.	What were the estimates of costs?
5.	Have they been reviewed since 1938?
6.	What are the depths of water from the Richelieu river to New York via the Chambly canal, lake Champlain and the Hudson river?
7.	How many bridges are there over the route?
8.	What is the saving in distance between Montreal and New York via this route?
9.	Is the Richelieu the only route that can be followed? What are the alternatives?
10.	When the seaway is completed, how many canallers will be made available for use elsewhere?
11.	Has any thought been given to using this fleet of ships on a deepened Richelieu-Champlain route?


1.	By year, how many university graduates have been taken into the Department of External Affairs following competitive examinations since 1948?
2.	What is the breakdown by year for each Canadian university with regard to successful and unsuccessful candidates, such information to be based on bachelor's degrees, not graduate degrees?
3.	What is the breakdown of the total in terms of type of degree for these years (e.g. history, economics, political science, pass, etc.) ?
4.	How many of those accepted by the department since 1948 could be defined as French Canadian?
5.	How many of those accepted by the department since 1948 have since left the service of this department?


1.	In what countries does Canada maintain diplomatic representatives?
2.	With respect to each country what is (a) the name, salary and expense allowance of each ambassador or other senior representative; (b) the capital cost of Canadian diplomatic offices; (c) the annual rent where Canada does not own its office building; (d) the annual operating cost of diplomatic representation, (i) for salaries; (ii) other costs; (e) the number of employees in each case?
96698-85i
Orders for Returns


1.	How many Hungarian refugees were admitted to Canada following the revolution in that country, until March 31, 1957 (a) direct from Austria or France; (b) from Great Britain?
2.	For how many of such persons, if any, were the medical regulations regarding entry in Canada, waived?
3.	How many of such persons are in hospitals or sanatoria as of October 31, 1957, at the expense of the federal government?
4.	What has been the total cost to the treasury of Canada for these refugees, for (a) medical and hospital care; (b) maintenance; (c) transportation within Canada since their arrival?
5.	How many of these persons were given medical examination after arrival in Canada?
6.	For how many of these persons has return passage been paid by the federal government as of October 1, 1957?


1.	How many Indians are presently resident on the White Bear reserve, Carlyle, Saskatchewan?
2.	How many of these are Cree?
3.	How many of these are Assiniboine?
4.	What has been the revenue return for each year since 1948, in connection with mineral leases, oil royalties, fishing licences or other licences on White Bear reserve?
5.	What other additional revenues have there been each year since 1948?
6.	What has been the disposition of revenues each year since 1948?
7.	What was the amount in the White Bear band fund in 1956?
8.	How are disbursements made from the band fund and on what basis?
9.	What was the cost of the construction of the dispensary and nurses' residence on White Bear reserve?
10.	What has been the value of machinery and livestock made to White Bear Indians each year since 1950?
11.	What did this machinery consist of, and what did the livestock consist of?
12.	(a) How many full blooded Indians have held administrative jobs under the Indian affairs branch since 1948? (b) What was the nature of their employment?
13.	What was the total value of food rations provided to Indians on the White Bear reserve for each year since 1948?
14.	How many houses have been built on the White Bear reserve since 1948?
15.	How many years is it since the fence surrounding the reserve was constructed?


1.	Did the Halifax shipyards provide goods and services to the federal government during the fiscal years ended March 31, 1955, 1956 and 1957? If so, in what dollar amount each year?
2.	Did the Halifax shipyards provide goods and services to the federal government during the period April 1, 1957 to October 31, 1957? If so, in what dollar amount?
3.	Were any federal government orders for goods and services from the Halifax shipyards outstanding on November 1, 1957? If so, in what dollar amount?

Motions for Papers


1.	Did the Fairey Aviation Company of Canada Limited, Eastern Passage, Nova Scotia, provide goods and services to the federal government during the fiscal years ending March 31, 1955, 1956 and 1957? If so, in what dollar amount each year?
2.	Did the Fairey Aviation Company of Canada Limited, Eastern Passage, Nova Scotia, provide goods and services to the federal government during the period April 1, 1957 to October 31, 1957? If so, in what dollar amount?
3.	Were any federal government orders for goods and services from Fairey Aviation Company of Canada Limited, Eastern Passage, Nova Scotia, outstanding on November 1, 1957? If so, in what dollar amount?


1.	What lawyers or law firms, if any, in the city of Edmonton, Alberta, were engaged or retained by the federal government or any branch thereof, during the period from January 2, 1956 to June 10, 1957?
2.	What sums were paid by the federal government and all departments thereof to each such lawyer and law firm?
3.	What amounts, if any, are still owing or being claimed for services and to whom?
4.	Do any contracts exist with any law firm respecting legal services, if so, with whom?
5.	By what consideration or procedure have these law firms been engaged?


1.	Have any automobiles and trucks been purchased by the government during each of the years 1956 and 1957 from agencies in Coleman, Blairmore, Bellevue, Pincher Creek, Macleod? If so, how many?
2.	From whom was each vehicle purchased and for what price?
3.	Were these purchases called for by public tender? If so, in what way were the tenders advertised?


Question No. 204
1.	Was a return of election expenses on behalf of every candidate who was elected to the House of Commons on June 10, 1957, filed prior to the opening of parliament on October 14, 1957?
2.	If not, what are the names of any elected members on whose behalf such returns of election expenses had not been filed by October 14, 1957?
3.	Have such returns been filed since October 14, 1957, on behalf of any elected members? If so, what are the names of such members and on what dates were such returns filed?


Motion No. 25-Mr. St. Laurent (Temis-couata):
For a copy of transportation orders and/or letters sent by district directors of postal services, relating to political activities by mail contractors, for all the postal districts, except Ottawa.
Is it the pleasure of the
house to adopt the motion subject to the usual reservation?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 32-Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg
North Centre):
For a copy of all agreements and correspondence exchanged between Canada and the state of New York, from January 1, 1955 to date, in connection with the building, operating and maintenance of the Ogdensburg-Prescott international bridge.
Mr. Speaker, there is, strictly
speaking, no correspondence or exchange of agreements between Canada and the state of New York from January 1, 1955 to date on the subject of the building, operating and maintenance of the Ogdensburg-Prescott international bridge. However, there exists a financial agreement relating to the Ogdens-burg bridge between the United States bridge authority, the Canadian bridge authority and the state of New York. This financial agreement was submitted to the governor general in council and received approval on March 14, 1957. I shall be glad to table a copy of this financial agreement and the order in council if the hon. member so desires.


That will be satisfactory.


Is it the pleasure of the
house to adopt the motion with the explanation and statement of the Prime Minister?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the reported offer of assistance to the minister by the president of the Canadian Labour Congress in the matter of the dispute between the Canadian National Steamships and the seafarers international union, will the government press for renewed negotiations on the wage and working conditions of the merchant seamen involved with a view to settling the dispute and returning the ships to Canadian registry?


Mr. Speaker, I received a telegram from Mr. Jodoin, as the hon. member has intimated, and I replied to him as follows:
Thank you lor your telegram which I received this morning. I have noted carefully the views which you have expressed. As the wage dispute is between the seafarers international union and the Canadian National (West Indies) Steamships Limited I believe it would be desirable if your offer to use your influence with the seafarers international union to try to bring about a settlement on an equitable basis were submitted direct to the parties to the dispute. I will however inform the company of the offer which you have made.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Transport a question. According to a Canadian Press report of this morning it is said that the ships of the Canadian National Steamships have left the harbour of Montreal without adequate crews in accordance with the regulations of the Canada Shipping Act. If the minister finds that this is the case will he apply against the crown corporation the penalty section of the Canada Shipping Act?


Mr. Speaker, I am advised by the management of Canadian National Steamships Limited that the crews which man the ships at the present time are quite adequate for the task which they have to perform, but if I find to the contrary I will certainly look into the matter. As I say, I will do this only if I find to the contrary.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I add another question to the many which the Minister of Transport has been asked today.


And which he has answered so well.


I remember having many busy days when I was over there but none similar to this one. I gave the minister notice of this question. Did the minister or anyone acting on his behalf issue instructions to Canadian National Steamships which resulted in the turning back of the aircraft carrying West Indian crews to Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for his courtesy in advising me of his intention to ask this question. I am sorry to disappoint my hon. friend, but the answer is no.
Inquiries of the Ministry


It is not a disappointment. It is a confirmation.


On the orders of the day:
May I
direct a question to the Minister of Transport. What is the destination of the Canadian National Steamships vessels where the transfer will be made from Canadian to foreign crews?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of any plans at the moment of Canadian National Steamships to transfer any crews.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I cannot hear the minister.


I said that I am not aware of any plans on the part of Canadian National Steamships to transfer any crews, and I am advised by the company that the destination at the present time is Halifax.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance, based on a C.B.C. news story this morning in which a speech given by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Fulton) in Vancouver was wrongly attributed to the Minister of Finance. What are the definite steps which have been taken by the Conservative government, according to the Minister of Justice, to relax the monetary restrictions of the Bank of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I have not seen any report of the speech wrongly attributed to me which my hon. friend says was made last night by the Minister of Justice, and I think it is hardly fair to expect me to answer to something which was in the mind of my colleague, if he made such a statement.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The presumption is that the Minister of Justice was speaking as a member of the government when he said the Conservative government was relaxing the monetary restrictions, and I thought the natural person from whom to inquire about what these steps were would be the Minister of Finance.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Prime Minister-

Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I am still asking what are these steps taken to relax monetary-restrictions about which the Minister of Justice spoke in Vancouver, saying it was the Conservative government which had done this?


Order. I understand that question has already been addressed to the minister and he has given an answer.


Oh, no.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Finance if as a means of stimulating sales and relieving unemployment which exists in certain automobile centres like the city of Windsor he could give any assurance that automobile dealers will receive a rebate on excise taxes when and if the excise tax is lowered or eliminated-


In accordance with Conservative election promises.


-in accordance with the practice established by the previous minister of finance?


Oh, no.


No, no.


No lecture; just an answer.


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend of course completely spoiled his question by the rider he added at the end.


No lecture; just give an answer.


What I would like to point out is that the fears that he apparently alludes to are based upon the actual experience that a great many motor car dealers in this country had under the former government, when that government 2 J years ago proposed a reduction from 15 to 10 per cent in that special excise tax on automobiles.


Is this the budget speech?


It will be remembered that at that time the government left the whole burden of the taxes that had been paid to rest upon the dealers. It will be recalled that following this-


Answer.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.


Deal with the question.
[Mr. Herridge.l


It is clearly not within the rules of this house, Mr. Speaker, for a minister in answer to a question-


To
make a budget speech.


-to deal with matters that have nothing to do with the question or that constitute a budget speech. Now, I ask the Minister of Finance in view of the serious unemployment situation in the city of Windsor-


Sit down.


What about the speech you are making?


-whether or not this request made to him by others can or cannot be met by him. If it cannot, all he has to do is say no.


When did you stop beating your wife.


Mr. Speaker, I am interested in the way my hon. friend has revised his question.


Order. I take it that the minister is now speaking to the point of order which has been raised.


He is just speaking.


Does the hon. minister wish to speak to the point of order which has been raised?


I thought my hon. friend had attempted to ask a second question. I wish now to go on with my answer to the first question, which I had not completed.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a supplementary question.


I think the point of order was complicated toy a further question, and perhaps the minister might deal with it.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a
supplementary question.


I have not completely dealt with the first question yet.


Order. We must give the minister a fair opportunity to answer the last question asked by the hon. member for Essex East.


Mr. Speaker, I had not completed my answer to the first question.


You were making a speech.


I pointed out, Mr. Speaker, that the dealers had been left to bear the burden of the tax that had been paid.


That is not true.


Now, following the protests of the opposition of those days over that unfair treatment of the dealers-


Answer the
question.


-the act was amended, and the act as amended permits-


Who amended it; the opposition?


-the sale of cars on consignment in such a way that if there should be any change in the tax there is no burden then left on the dealer. One would hope that in such a situation those who are interested in what may be done in regard to this subject would take advantage of those provisions of the act and make the purchases on consignment.
I can tell my hon. friend that so far as unemployment is concerned this is a matter of very lively concern to those who are responsible for any of these matters. If it became the intention of the government and were announced in due course that any change should be proposed to the house, naturally all aspects of the matter would be taken into consideration. There have been many representations on this subject. I could indicate to my hon. friend why in the light of past experience the dealers are so concerned.


Bring in your budget soon.


On the orders of the day;
Mr. Speaker, in view of the Prime Minister's interest in education in general and in particular, including lectures to the opposition, I would like to ask him this question. In view of the great importance of the Canadian conference on education to be held in Ottawa on February 17 to 20 in 1958, will the Canadian government send observers to this great and unique national conference and will observers from the Canada Council also attend?


Mr. Speaker, there has been no decision made regarding the presence of observers. I agree with my hon. friend that this is a most important conference. As to the question as to whether or not there should be representatives from the Canada Council that, of course, would be determined by that council.
Inquiries of the Ministry TRADE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Has the minister given further consideration to the suggestion I made on Monday, November 11, that a representative of the western pools be included in the trade delegation to the United Kingdom? If so, could he report to the house if any changes or additions have been made in the personnel of this mission since it was announced by him on November 8?


Mr. Speaker, when I was in Regina attending the meeting of the Saskatchewan pool association last Friday, a gentleman-I think one of the vice-presidents of that organization-was asked to become a member of the mission and consented to do so.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport with reference to the William Carson, which is now plying between North Sydney and Argentia. In view of the minister's statement that if the William Carson could carry automobiles and passengers, and if the Newfoundland board of trade could show that this could be done, it would be done, what is he now doing to see that this assurance is implemented?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is usually reasonably accurate. I am afraid he is inaccurate in his statement today. When I was in St. John's some time ago I talked this matter over with the Newfoundland board of trade and they told me they were confident that automobiles could be loaded on the William Carson. I told them that if they could demonstrate that fact, then I would recommend to the management of the Canadian National Railways that cars be carried on that ferry.
I have since been in touch with the management of the Canadian National Railways and they tell me that although they believe cars could physically be loaded on the ferry, there are many other factors which in their

Inquiries of the Ministry opinion make it very undesirable if not impossible to carry cars on the ferry at the present time.


May I ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister received any representation from the Newfoundland board of trade since that announcement was made by the management? If not, is he aware of the statement made by the board which was reported in a recent issue of the St. John's Evening Telegram?


Yes; I had quite a lengthy talk with the president of the Newfoundland board of trade either yesterday or the day before-I am not quite sure which it was- and I think he understands my point of view and I certainly understand his.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Transport seems to be very popular today. I have a question for him also. I regret I did not And the opportunity to give him notice of it. If he wishes he may take this as notice. Has the minister received a telegram informing him that the only passenger and freight service to Lasqueti island, British Columbia, is cancelled, effective today, and asking him to provide for its resumption or for a suitable substitute service? If so, what action has he taken or will he take to deal with this situation?


Mr. Speaker, I have not received such a telegram but I will make inquiries, look into the matter and see what can be done.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. I could have done so earlier when answers were being given to starred questions, but I thought I should not interrupt proceedings at that time. My question of privilege has reference to the answer given by the Minister of Labour to starred question No. 29. The question reads as follows:
How many unemployed were registered in (a) Canada: (b) the province of Quebec; (c) the area served by the Montmagny office of the unemployment insurance commission, on or about November 1, 1957?


The answer of the Minister of Labour contained the published figures of September 19. My question of privilege is this. Since it is well known that the unemployment insurance commission has these figures of registered unemployed throughout Canada every week, is not parliament, the House of Commons, entitled to those figures?


Mr. Speaker, I posed these questions to the unemployment insurance commission and these are the figures I received as the latest figures available. If the hon. member is not satisfied with these figures, then I shall go back to the unemployment insurance commission and ask them if they can bring them up to date. These are the only figures they gave me in reply to the question.


That is quite satisfactory. I am sure the unemployment insurance commission will supply the minister with much more recent figures.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Since we have in this house, for the use of the members of the House of Commons and the stenographic staff, an active five-pin bowling league, would the minister not consider it in the best interests of the physical fitness and health of the members to make use of this exercise?


Mr. Speaker, if I may be permitted to answer the question I would say yes, indeed. I think the hon. member who asked the question is possibly the best living example in that regard.


Thank you.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. I regret that I was unable to give him notice. Since the disposition appears to be to give passes on Trans-Canada Air Lines to Jamaican seamen I wonder whether he would give more earnest consideration to his earlier suggestion that members of parliament living more than 500 miles from Ottawa should be given passes on the air line?


Mr. Speaker, as I explained the other day no passes have been given to anybody.


Has the hon. gentleman not got a pass?


It was given to me; I did not give it.


And the Postmaster General?


And the Postmaster
General?


did not get it from the Minister of Transport.


We don't care who gives them so long as we get them.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of recent rumours I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Have there been any new developments along the St. Lawrence river in regard to the pilots' strike?


Mr. Speaker,-


Don't blush.


-I wish to thank the hon. member for his courtesy in giving me notice of his intention to ask this question. I am glad to inform the house that the pilots of the Kingston-Montreal pilotage district have today returned to work. This decision was taken on their part on the basis of my assurance to them that we believed we could work out a satisfactory solution to their problems in the course of the coming months before the spring season of navigation opens.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Labour, arising out of his answer to one of my starred questions on today's order paper. I refer to the question which read:
Has the government any specific program to relieve unemployment this winter? If so, what is that program?
In view of the fact that the minister told us the aims of that program, the nature of the publicity being given to it, the organizations who were sponsoring it and so on, will he tell us what the program is?
Inquiries of the Ministry


I think I adequately explained the winter program. I have nothing more to add.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Postmaster General, of which notice has been given. Can the minister say as to whether the removal of railway mail cars from the 300-mile run from Saskatoon to Edmonton will not result in poorer mail service to the citizens in that area; and does the minister intend to remove other railway mail cars in other sections of the country in an economy attempt, without regard to service?


Mr. Speaker, the action referred to was dictated because it was felt that the revised arrangement would result in an improved mail service, and it originated from complaints and information we received from that area that certain connections were not satisfactory.
To deal with the second and more general part of the question, I would say that the Post Office Department has never removed railway mail car service in an economy attempt without regard to service, and there certainly is not any intention of doing so in the future. Where railway mail cars have been removed and replaced by highway service it was for the purpose of improving the mail service, and in many cases because it was the only course of action to follow, the railways having removed the trains or changed them so that no adequate equipment was available. The economy factors which enter into this question are sizeable at times, but they are not the main consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the wide interest in the matter, will he table the report of the inquiry conducted by his department following the grounding of the C.G.S. Baffin on Black rock on July 4 last?

Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the hon. member for his courtesy in giving me notice of his intention to ask this question.
No formal investigation or public inquiry under the Canada Shipping Act was held, although at the request of the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys a Department of Transport officer made a departmental investigation, the results of which were passed on to the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys. This was a purely departmental report of a nature which it has not been customary to release to the public.


May I ask a supplementary question. In view of the answer just given, would the minister agree to institute a public inquiry in order to assure the people, particularly those who live on the seacoast, that lives are not being endangered and public property not being subjected to undue risk?


I will be glad to look into the matter, and if there appears to be a real need for a public inquiry certainly one will be held.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct another question to the Minister of Transport. We know this is not his birthday we are celebrating because he told us last session when his birthday is. In view of the minister's insistence last week that the application by Canadian Pacific Airlines to fly the Montreal-Vancouver route was a matter for the air transport board to deal with and about which we should not ask for any government statement of policy, how does he explain the statement made by his parliamentary assistant today that the application of Canadian Pacific Airlines to land at Edmonton and take on and discharge passengers there is being considered by the minister as part of a government review of civil aviation policy?


Mr. Speaker, if those were the words used in answer to the question, the answer should have been that the matter is being considered by the air transport board.


May I ask the minister a supplementary question. If there is any change in aviation policy as envisaged in the statement of the parliamentary assistant, will that change of
[Mr. Kirk.)
policy be brought to parliament before it is put into effect?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Would the minister advise the house if the government has yet named the federal representatives to the Windsor harbour commission?


I did not quite hear the hon. member.


Has the government named the federal representatives to the Windsor harbour commission?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, and we have just recently received the nominee of the mayor of Windsor. As I said yesterday, we expect to move forward on the matter very rapidly now.


Can the minister tell us who the federal representatives are to be?


I can tell the hon. member after we reach orders of the day. I will be very glad to do so then, but I do not have the names with me at the moment.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the very serious financial difficulties facing the government of India at this time and reports that India is seeking loans from the western nations, can the minister say whether India has asked Canada for assistance and what consideration has been given to any such request?


Mr. Speaker, to my knowledge no request has been made by the government of India to the government of Canada for any such loan.


Can the minister say whether the government of India has sought private assistance or private investment within Canada as she is reported to be doing within other nations?


Not that I am aware of, Mr. Speaker. Last fall the Indian finance commissioner, when in Washington, was known to be carrying on discussions with officials of the international bank, and also with representatives of the United States treasury.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have another question for the Minister of Transport. Has the Department of Transport discontinued its former policy of granting subsidies to certain telephone companies in order to help them improve their services?


I wish to thank the hon. member for his courtesy in advising me of his intention to ask this question. It is my understanding that the former government had this whole matter under consideration, and the present government also has it under consideration.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Secretary of State. When can I expect an answer to my question No. 47, which was made an order for return on October 30?


I will look into the matter and try to hurry it up.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Have any representations been made to the Prime Minister by any provincial premier suggesting that the question of establishing a national conservation board be placed on the agenda of the forthcoming dominion-provincial conference?


Mr. Speaker, I know of no such request. I could be in error, but I do not think I am. I have followed all requests and I speak from memory, but I know of no such request.
Inquiries of the Ministry TRADE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to correct an inaccuracy that I was guilty of yesterday in answering a question by the hon. member for Rosthern. I said that the adjustment price on wheat used for flour for export amounted to about 12 cents per bushel. Actually the adjustment price varies from 8 cents to 10 cents per bushel.


Will the minister make available to the house the actual amount involved in this subsidy policy over the past year?


I think, Mr. Speaker, that is a proper question for the order paper, because it involves statistical material.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,