the first reading of Bill No. 402 (from the Senate), respecting the Buffalo and Fort Erie Public Bridge Company.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue. In view of the limitations on the functions assigned to the minister under the Canadian Broadcasting Act, will he now tell the house whether he thinks it was appropriate for him to make repeated representations to the corporation regarding its programming without obtaining the authority of parliament to do so?


My answer, Mr. Speaker, is yes.


I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware of the terms of the act and of the order in council appointing Hon. J. J. McCann, a minister of the crown, to carry out the responsibilities set out in the act? Does he not feel that his responsibilities should be only those that are delegated to the minister by parliament rather than any that are given to him by the government?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the minister who reports to parliament in connection with the C.B.C. has been very careful not to exceed the authority he properly has.


May I ask the minister who reports for the C.B.C. to parliament, but who
is not its administrator, to tell us on whose behalf he made his direct representations to the C.B.C.?


Mr. Speaker, that is a rather hard question to answer. If the hon. member means the individuals on whose behalf, I would have to look over the correspondence and see who made the protests.


I was referring to the portion of the minister's reply yesterday where he referred to direct representations, not those he made as an intermediary.


Mr. Speaker, that was the interpretation of my duties to parliament and to the government.


Mr. Speaker, has the minister under the act and under the order in council any duties to the government with respect to this matter? Has he received any authority from parliament to do what he has done?


I understand the hon. member for Cartier is rising on a point of order.


I respectfully submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that there is a limit to this abuse of cross-examination, which does not fall within the scope of the question period. I urge Your Honour to arrest this crossexamination, which is completely outside the standing orders of the house.


I rise on a question of privilege. My question of privilege is one on behalf of the members of parliament. There is a statute-


Does the hon. gentleman not think we should deal first with the point of order? Does he have anything to say with respect to the point of order raised by the hon. member for Cartier?


The only thing I have to say is that the witness has not answered the questions properly.


Well, if hon. members feel that by the very fact they can steer away from the rules, they have been changed, the point of order raised by the hon. member for Cartier is not a proper one; but if the rules in Beauchesne are to be considered as still in existence, there is a good deal of merit in the point raised by the hon. member for Cartier. I have read these rules before, and no matter how unpleasant it is for me to read them again I shall have to do so. If an hon. member
3058	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry puts an oral question, that oral question is governed by the same rules which govern a written question. If the hon. member were to put his oral questions on the order paper, would they pass the clerks at the table? That is the test.
Now, in putting a question a member must confine himself to the narrowest limits:
In asking a question, observations which might lead to debate cannot be regarded as coming within the proper limits of a question.
The purpose of a question is to obtain information and not to supply it to the house.
A question oral or written must not:
multiply, with slight variations, a similar question on the same point.
inquire whether statements made in a newspaper are true.
contain an expression of opinion.
be a speech, however short; nor be of unreasonable length.
raise a matter of policy too large to be dealt with in the limits of an answer to a question.
ask the government's opinion on matters of policy.
These are only some of the paragraphs which are found in citation 295.
The current session is one that all hon. members know may be cut short by dissolution. It is because I have taken that into account that I have allowed some latitude at question time.
The obvious remark I should make at this moment-perhaps not particularly at this moment but with regard to many questions that are being asked at this time-would be that some of these questions should wait until the estimates of the department of the minister concerned are before the committee of supply. There may be a chance that we will not reach these various departments in supply, and even if we reach them it may be that we will not have time to deal with any of the matters that will have to be dealt with at that time.
The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre I think will agree with me that with respect to the latitude that has been given he would be quite entitled to proceed today in the same manner that has been followed at previous sittings in the course of this session and even prior to this session, but in strict accordance with the rules I think there are certain limitations which an hon. member should impose upon himself in pursuing a point at question time.


Mr. Speaker, I accept your ruling but I rise on a question of privilege. As a member of parliament I would point out that parliament by a statute has given to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation the control of the character of any and all programs broadcast by the corporation on its own or any private stations. In that same statute of this parliament there is provision for a minister


of the crown to be the person through whom the corporation reports to parliament. Parliament has not delegated any other authority over the corporation to a minister; and the point of my question of privilege is that the rights of parliament have been usurped by the minister by virtue of what he told us yesterday, in that he has made repeated representations to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.


That is not a question of privilege. We are now at question time. The hon. member has asked a question and has received a reply. It may be that the minister has an interpretation as to his own duties which is different from that of the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.


But there is a statute-


The hon. member is interpreting the statute in his own way, and he claims that according to his own interpretation the minister does not interpret his duties properly. The minister has indicated by his answer that he has a different understanding of the statute. It seems to me that this is not a matter for debate at this time, and it certainly is not the basis for a question of privilege.


On the orders of the day:
['No, Mr. Speaker; not at the moment.']
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue. Did the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation assign special television personnel and equipment to accompany the Minister of National Health and Welfare and the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys on their recent trips abroad?


Mr. Speaker, I will take the question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has the minister any comment to make on the tragic event which took place today in Cairo? I refer to the death of Mr. E. H. Norman.


Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to say a word. Wholly desirable as is the objective of preserving freedom, that freedom will not be preserved by adopting the techniques and instruments of communism.


Hear, hear.


I think all of us in this house cannot but feel a sense of deep sorrow that this man's good name was filched from him by indiscriminately branding him as an enemy, trying him by suspicion and, in the public mind to a great extent, convicting him by innuendo. I think every member of this house will agree that the terrible results in the lives of those subjected to such indiscriminate attacks as were made on this man cannot but lead each of us to determine that we shall not ourselves engage in words which can only destroy the heart and soul of those attacked.
Inquiries of the Ministry while it may be unusual to suggest this, and I doubt that it has ever been done before, I suggest through you, sir, to the Minister of Public Works that parliament show its feelings by having the flag on this building flown at half-mast for one who served well and died in the service of his country.


Mr. Speaker, may I have the indulgence of this house to say something on this matter. It is obvious that murder has spoken with most miraculous tongue. I believe Mr. Norman was murdered by slander. I believe he was killed as surely as if somebody had put a knife into his back; and those who are responsible unhappily are above the law.
It was with the greatest sense of shock, I am sure, that all of us heard this morning of the death of Mr. Norman; and we in this party certainly associate ourselves with what has been said by the Secretary of State for External Affairs and the Leader of the Opposition.
We regret Mr. Norman's death profoundly, but here surely there is once again a lesson for all of us. I hope very much that when the minister does convey his regrets to Mr. Norman's widow he will include with his expression of sympathy the sympathy of the whole house.


Mr. Speaker, I do not know that there is anything we can add to what has already been said, except perhaps to say that once again we are face to face with the fact that men in high places have terrific responsibilities, responsibilities which may be far beyond the capacity of the public mind to conceive. Some of us are conscious of the things that can happen under the stress and strain of responsibility, and of what might happen when those responsibilities bring nervous breakdowns.
I am sure we join with others who have spoken in expressing our sympathy with Mr. Norman's widow and his family.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the whole civil service of Canada I wish to express grateful thanks to hon. members for this recognition of the loyal and devoted service which is rendered by those who are devoting their lives to the administration of the public affairs of their fellow citizens.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Will the widow and the family of Mr. Norman be properly taken care of?
This man was a devoted public servant; he is a victim of witch-hunting proclivities; and


Yes, Mr. Speaker; we will do the best we can.

Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday I directed a question to the Minister of National Defence or in his absence to his parliamentary assistant. Is the minister in a position to be able to give to the house a statement with regard to the question that was asked yesterday?


No, Mr. Speaker; not at the moment.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Having regard to the degree to which he was subject to misquotation by the press at the coast, will he say whether in view of the decision of the supreme court judge, Mr. Justice Sullivan, allowing Mr. Hanna to remain in Canada, Mr. Hanna might be freed from concern about this aspect of his future by a declaration now on the part of the minister that he will be permitted to stay in Canada?


I think, perhaps, the hon. gentleman has not read the law recently. I have no power to allow Mr. Hanna to stay permanently in Canada, and neither has any other individual. Mr. Hanna cannot comply with the law as it now stands, and the only way to admit him for permanent residence would be for me to recommend to my colleagues that an order in council be passed making a special law for him.
I stated at the Pacific coast that I thought the proper way to proceed in this case at the present time, in view of the fact that Mr. Hanna was employed and was doing no one any harm, was to allow him to stay in Canada without any action being taken for the time being about his status; and I expressed the hope that he would get on well enough so that, in a few months, I would feel justified in recommending to my colleagues that a special law be made to deal with his case. However, I do not think that would be a proper thing to do now.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have just returned from British

Columbia, and in consequence I am inspired to direct a question to the Minister of Transport.
Does the minister know that a good number of the employees of his department in British Columbia are in arrears for periods of up to seven months in respect of overtime pay, involving sums amounting in certain cases to over $500; and, in addition, that some of these men are owed up to $150 in expenses, in consequence of which some of the employees are unable to pay their grocery bills and have had their credit cut off?


Is this not a good example of a question that is supplying information instead of asking for it?


Mr. Speaker, I had to raise the question in that way in order to inform the minister. Is the minister aware of this position, and what action does he intend to take?


All I can say is that I will have to make inquiries, because these are not matters that come to my personal attention.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Defence Production in view of the announced lay-off of 225 employees at Orenda Engines Limited. Has the minister any information as to whether this will be the total number laid off at the present time, or can he get that information for the house?


Mr. Speaker, I saw the official announcement of the Orenda company as, I assume, my hon. friend did. The announcement said that owing to the longer life of the engines between overhauls, work was being reduced owing to the reduction in the volume of maintenance work and as a result 225 members of the staff were laid off. I know of no other reason for laying off men. I assume that the statement put out by the company is correct.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I renew my request to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration that question 170 on the order paper, of which notice was

handed in on February 18, be answered as soon as possible and, in any event, before the end of the session?


Mr. Speaker, I am afraid I can make no promises to the hon. gentleman. His question obviously involves an immense amount of research. While that research is proceeding, I have felt that the most important duty of my department at the present time was to deal with the current flow of immigrants.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. My question of privilege relates to the correctness of the records of this house. I have in my hand a copy of Votes and Proceedings for yesterday, Wednesday, 3rd April, 1957, which, as is usually the case, is published over Your Honour's signature. I call your attention to the entries on page 376. Part way down the page there appears this entry:
More than five members having risen and asked for a division, Mr. Speaker gave the order to call in the members.
Then there follows the statement which Your Honour made after the members were called in and which consisted of reading certain citations from Campion and May.
May I make it clear, Mr. Speaker, that in this question of privilege I am not arguing about what Your Honour did yesterday. Rather it is my contention that, after the entry as to what Your Honour said at that point, there should be an entry concerning the point of order that was raised by the Leader of the Opposition. If you will refer to page 3010 of Hansard for yesterday you will note that at that point the Leader of the Opposition raised a point of order as to whether it was proper for Your Honour to do what you did after the members had been called in. Your Honour recognized the sincerity of the point of order but contended that, unless you were overridden by the house, you did not agree with it. A moment ago Your Honour had occasion to indicate that Beauchesne was still in effect. As you know, citation 87 in Beauchesne's third edition states as follows:
87. If the Speaker has put the question and has declared that the yeas or the nays had it, it is too late to continue the debate.
The point is that the official record, namely Votes and Proceedings, would seem to indicate that something was done which in
Inquiries of the Ministry my views was in violation of that citation but there is no record of objection having been taken to it.
May I make it as clear as I can that at this point I am not arguing about what Your Honour did yesterday. However, I feel that for the record to be complete there should be after Your Honour's quotations from Campion and May an entry to the effect that a point of order was raised by the Leader of the Opposition and that Your Honour ruled against the point of order.


The matter the hon. gentleman brings forward today is one which involves the latitude which is given or the discretion which is being exercised, in most cases without my knowledge, by the Clerk at the table.


I object to the Clerk being blamed for what is over the Speaker's signature.


As long ago I believe as the seventeenth century there was a resolution passed in the United Kingdom, and one was passed in Canada in the early days of confederation, to the effect that Votes and Proceedings be printed by order of the house after having first been perused by Mr. Speaker. I should like hon. members to name one Speaker who has ever read the scroll before it was printed the next day. I have not. The Clerk of the House of Commons, like all his predecessors, is a gentleman who is supposed to know his business. He is a gentleman in whom we should have some confidence. I take the full responsibility for whatever appears over my signature. I am not suggesting to the hon. gentleman that if he is right, if there is an omission, I should blame anybody else but myself for it.
This having been said, it is none the less generally known, and I am sure the hon. gentleman knows it, that the Speaker never reads the scroll. At ten o'clock when the house adjourns the scroll goes down to the journals branch under the Clerk's signature, and it is sent to the printer's office. I do not know what appears in Votes and Proceedings until I see it at the same time the hon. gentleman sees it. Notwithstanding, as I said, that a resolution was passed around 1870, I think, that Votes and Proceedings be printed after first having been perused by Mr. Speaker, I have never perused them. I have not done so since November 12, 1953. So far as I can recall I have never heard of any Speaker first reading the scroll before it was printed the next day.
In certain cases we at the table, the clerks and I, are of the opinion that it might be

Excise Tax Act
worth while to keep certain rulings on record for future reference. In consultation we agree that a certain ruling be printed. But it just happens that, in this instance, there was no such consultation. In many instances the clerk at the table has seen fit, under the general discretion which he uses with the tacit support of the Chair-I do not object to what he has done and I think it is useful- to have the citations I have quoted to the house appear in Votes and Proceedings. I think it is useful to have the citations I quoted yesterday in the records of the house.
I feel that there is something in the point the hon. gentleman has raised, though I am not prepared to say I agree wholeheartedly. Since this statement has been made, and as I say I have great confidence in the Clerk just as the hon. gentleman has, no doubt-


Hear, hear.


-we will want to discuss it together and see to what extent we can meet the hon. gentleman's desire.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. Has any decision been made by the minister or his department in connection with allowing youth organizations, such as the boy scouts, special rates for travel through the national parks? I believe the question was brought up last year.


I believe so, sir, but I shall have to look into it.


The house in committee of ways and means, Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair.
Resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Excise Tax Act and to provide, among other things:
1.	That the sales tax on the following goods be repealed:
(a)	certain building materials which are in addition to those already exempted, viz: chimney caps; circulating pumps for use in forced hot water heating systems for the heating of buildings; door and window screens; precast concrete shapes when purchased by municipalities for bridges in public highway systems; septic tanks:	structural steel
when purchased by municipalities for bridges in public highway systems;
(b)	desks and chairs specially designed for use in class rooms when sold to educational institutions;
(c)	printing produced by school or university when for its own use and not for resale;

(d)	gasoline powered self-propelled trucks, mounted on rubber tired wheels, for off-highway use exclusively at mines or quarries, and complete parts thereof;
(e)	seventy-five per cent of the sale price if manufactured in Canada, or seventy-five per cent of the duty paid value if imported, of trailers for use as homes;
(f)	potted, flowering or bedding plants, dormant flower bulbs and cut foliage;
(g)	geophysical surveying precision instruments and equipment as enumerated in customs tariff item 431h;
(h)	goods enumerated in customs tariff item 695d;
(i)	tanks for collecting milk, not including chassis or cabs;
(j)	railway ties;
(k)	certain foodstuffs which are in addition to those already exempted, viz: baking powder; baking soda; bases or concentrates for making beverages other than soft drink beverages; cocoa; cocoanut; dessert powders; edible gelatin; flavouring extract; gravies and meat extracts; meat tenderizers; pickles, relishes, catsups, sauces, olives, horseradish, mustard, and similar goods; pie fillings; prune juice, grape juice; salad oils, mayonnaise and salad dressings; sandwich spreads; spices, condiments and seasoning; tea, coffee and substitutes therefor; vinegar;
2.	That equipment specially designed for use directly in road making, road cleaning or fire fighting, but not including automobiles or motor trucks, when sold to or imported by municipalities for their own use and not for resale, be exempted from the sales tax when the price is in excess of five hundred dollars ($500) per unit, instead of the present exemption for units priced in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per unit.
3.	That the excise tax on the following goods be repealed:
(a)	soft drinks and imitations thereof;
(b)	carbonic acid gas for aerating non-alcoholic beverages;
(c)	candy, chocolate, chewing gum and confectionery;
(d)	motor cycles and all other two- or threewheeled motor driven vehicles including motors for attachment to bicycles;
(e)	ash trays and certain smokers' accessories, not to include tobacco pipes, cigar and cigarette holders and cigarette rolling devices;
(f)	fountain pens; bail-point pens, ink pencils; propelling pencils, desk sets and. all other desk accessories;
(g)	gold-plated or silver-plated ware for the preparation or serving of food or drink;
(h)	articles of cut glassware, crystal glassware, cut or not, etched glassware, or metal decorated glassware;
(i)	articles of china, porcelain, earthenware, marble, stoneware, or other pottery ware;
(j)	Canadian raw leaf tobacco.
4.	That any enactment founded upon this resolution be deemed to have come into force on the 15th day of March, 1957.
Mr. Chairman, I thought
when we adjourned last night there were certain questions before the parliamentary assistant which I hoped he would answer when the committee resumed this morning. I had asked some, and I think perhaps other people had also.


I thought they had been
answered. Has my hon. friend something specific in mind he feels was not covered?


I was out of the house
for a moment or two, but so far as I know the parliamentary assistant made no answer to the two particular questions I asked him about the consideration of the report of the sales tax committee. One question related to the very large number of discretions presently held by the minister, and the other referred to the question of appeals. What I did ask the parliamentary assistant was to give us, if he would, some indication of what the thinking of the department was on the question of this very important report. The report had been asked for by the minister, and as I said last evening the minister's reference to the report at page 2226 of Hansard was a virtual brush-off of it. I asked the parliamentary assistant if he could make comments on the attitude toward the report, and particularly on the two points I specifically mentioned.


I did say that since this report has come forward officials of the Department of National Revenue, the Department of Finance and the Department of Justice have been working in a most positive way on the details of the recommendations that are involved. I recall that prior to the setting up of the committee the tax foundation, with which my hon. friend is familiar, put out a study on the sales tax, and it is dated November, 1955. I was reading it this morning and I note that they make this comment:
The important findings of the study are that there are two basic weaknesses in the taxing statute and that statutory amendment in respect of these offers hope of substantial improvement in terms of certainty, simplicity, equity and cost of compliance and collection. One of these weaknesses
has to do with the determination of the tax base_
the taxable "sale price"-and the other with the exemption of certain building materials and of equipment and apparatus used directly in the process of manufacture or production.
Then they emphasize this by putting the following sentence in italics.


What document is the parliamentary assistant reading from?


I said this was a memo put out by the tax foundation-


Dated when?


-analysing the federal sales tax. It is a monthly bulletin dated February, 1955. I am just mentioning what in their view were two of the most serious matters that would have to be considered in any review of the sales tax statute. To emphasize it they put the last sentence in the paragraph in italics, and it reads as follows:
That these two general and basic weaknesses exist is accepted on all sides.
Excise Tax Act
There are many recommendations in this very worth-while report; some have been referred to by my hon. friend. Most of the recommendations are tied in with a substantial overhaul of the statute.


Will the parliamentary assistant permit a question? Is he bearing in mind that he is referring to a document that is dated a good many months prior to the report I have here, which is dated January 12, 1956?


I quite recognize that, Mr. Chairman, but my hon. friend will also recognize the value of any comment by the tax foundation. May I say that in their view these two particular problems stand out. I simply wish to say it happens that within the past year, since this report has come from the sales tax committee, both these matters that the tax foundation thought were preeminent in requiring attention have received very careful attention.
The matter of the tax base was referred to by the minister in his budget speech. The matter of tidying up certain exemptions in building materials, and so on, was dealt with last year in the Excise Tax Act amendments. Many of the items that were added last year to schedule III of the act were items that were referred to by the committee. The other recommendations, as I say, generally are so interlocked that a very substantial amendment to the statute would be necessary to implement them.
I can assure my hon. friend that this is receiving the most careful and positive attention of the officials of the various departments to which I have referred, revenue, finance and justice. Some of the recommendations have already been dealt with.


I do not propose to deal with this matter further, if the parliamentary assistant could just deal with the two matters I raised, and which seem to me to be of importance; one, the question of multitudinous discretion of the minister and, two, the question of appeal. If he can say that these two things are among those that are being seriously considered now I will not press the matter for the moment.


Very definitely.


Shall the resolution carry?


No. My understanding is that we have taken this item by item. When the minister says "the resolution" I presume he means the whole resolution headed "Excise Tax Act".


No; No. 1.

Excise Tax Act


We have been jumping around up to now, but I think it has been our practice in the past when our general discussion concludes to call briefly the subparagraphs. It is one resolution, but I think the Chairman usually calls the individual paragraphs.


Is it agreeable to the committee that I call the subparagraphs for purposes of the discussion?


Will the parliamentary assistant deal with the question I referred to last night regarding the word "finance" in the act?


Mr. Chairman, that is associated with and part of the general review of the statute that we have just been discussing. It was referred to in the report of the committee, and certainly would be one of the principles involved in an overhaul of the statute.


I now take it that it is agreeable to the committee that I call the subparagraphs for purposes of discussion: 1(a).


On 1 (a), would the parliamentary assistant inform us what the loss of revenue will be to the treasury covering the two items, "Precast concrete shapes, when purchased by municipalities, for bridges in public highway systems"; and "Structural steel when purchased by municipalities for bridges in public highway systems". What will be the loss to the treasury because of this exemption?


The estimate that has been given to me as a result of some study on the part of the officials is roughly about $2 million.
Mr. Pallet!: Mr. Chairman, paragraph 1 (a) begins as follows:
That the sales tax on the following goods be repealed.
I welcome the repeal of any tax. The only thing of a general nature that might be said is that with the exorbitant surplus the government have in hand at the present time they might well have taken the repeal much farther than they have. There are many items which have been omitted from this list and which are significant by their omission.
One major commodity I refer to is the automobile. The tax was originally put on as a sort of luxury tax. Apparently by this government's omission to include the sales tax on automobiles in this list they seem to have the opinion that the automobile is a luxury. Perhaps nothing can be done now about this matter, but I certainly think any

government which is in power at the time should give it very serious consideration on some early future occasion.
With respect to the items that are enumerated, I was very seriously disturbed to hear the parliamentary assistant say last night that foliage did not include cut flowers.


Order. I wonder whether the hon. member is not under a misapprehension. We are now discussing 1 (a). It will be noticed that the question which the hon. member is now raising has to do with paragraph 1 (f). The committee has agreed to discuss these things paragraph by paragraph.
Mr. Pallet!: Very well, Mr. Chairman; I shall wait.


Is 1 (a) completed?


Before we go on, Mr. Chairman, is the parliamentary assistant in a position to inform the committee as to what will be the total amount of exemptions that the municipalities can now take advantage of after this particular act is passed?


Do you mean in dollars?


We are having a continuing extension of this type of exemption. Have we a calculation as to what that total would be at the present time?


Is my hon. friend referring to sales tax exemptions that are for the benefit of municipalities as proposed in the resolutions, or is he referring to some calculation of the over-all value of the cumulative exemptions that have been enacted to date?


I am thinking now of the over-all cumulative exemptions. We already have an exemption similar to what is contained in item 2. On the basis of units in excess of $1,000 what is the cumulative total now that has been exempted for the municipalities on their purchases?


I am afraid, Mr. Chairman, that I cannot pick up such a figure. My hon. friend will realize that some of these matters are interlocked, in that sometimes municipalities operate hospitals and so on, and hospitals have an exemption under a different section of the schedule. I think it would require a special return to give the total value of the claims for exemptions that have been advanced under the municipal exemptions for equipment of an expensive nature.


At this stage could the parliamentary assistant inform us what would be the total loss of revenue to the department if all municipal purchases

were exempted, and if all purchases on behalf of boards of education were exempted?


I have not that information with me. It would again require some form of canvass of all those units as purchasers to find out what their expenditures have been on taxable and non-taxable items. It may be that the Department of Trade and Commerce through its bureau of statistics has some records of municipal spending, but I rather doubt it. We have not got it in the revenue department.


Mr. Chairman, this is what I would term a hodge-podge method of working out exemptions for municipalities and boards of education. It may be that the exemptions we are getting now are close to the total that might be exempted if the municipalities or boards of education were brought under a sales tax licence procedure.
I think when the department come here they should be in a position to inform us just how much might be lost in revenue if such a procedure were inaugurated. This is a serious matter, because we are all concerned with the position of the municipalities. Perhaps it might be indicated today to these experts who look after these affairs that we are going to expect very good answers from this time forward in connection with this type of legislation.


Mr. Chairman, I wonder if the parliamentary assistant could define for me what would be the position of a municipality with respect to purchasing material such as structural steel in a case where the province shares with the municipality on a 50-50 basis the cost of building a road, when a bridge for which the steel was purchased happens to be located in that section?


Well, the purchase is exempt now if made by a provincial government. The provinces in their sales taxes do not assess the federal government on its purchases, and vice versa. From now on, of course, the municipality too will be exempt. Probably in the other instance the purchase may very well have been on provincial government account and would not have been subject to tax.


Item 1 (a) completed'
Item 1 (b)?


Mr. Chairman, in connection with item 1 (b) would the parliamentary assistant inform us what would be the total loss of revenue, estimated by his experts in connection with this exemption.
Excise Tax Act


Our calculation for
item 1 (b) for desks and chairs for educational institutions is about half a million dollars.


Mr. Chairman, are blackboards included, or are they exempt at the present time?


There seems to be some difficulty there in that they are not specifically exempted, but they might very well have been part of the construction of the school. In that way, under the exemption that is provided for most building materials, I have every belief that they usually escape the tax.


The reason I asked that question is that I know of a school that had to replace its blackboards. They were quite costly, and I was wondering if there was any chance of having the tax taken off.


Mr. Chairman, I was just wondering how desks and chairs specially designed for use in classrooms were defined in item 1 (b). In most high schools today there are laboratories, utility rooms, musjc rooms and even cafeterias which are used as classrooms. Does this mean that the exemption will be given only for the rooms that are designated as straight classrooms, or will it apply to all other types of rooms in high schools that are presently being used as classrooms but designated by some other description?


I am informed that
generally in matters of this kind the interpretation is reasonably generous, but one would have to look at the nature of the room and the purpose to which the room was usually put. I would think probably the chairs in a lounge room would be subject to tax. I imagine if there was an auditorium chiefly for entertainment purposes chairs there might not escape the tax because they would not be regarded as specially designed for a classroom.


What I am getting at is that practically all these rooms in most high schools are being used as classrooms. Even cafeterias are used as classrooms in many schools. Would the item include the tables and chairs in a cafeteria and the experimental desks in the laboratories, and things like that?


Certainly the desks in the laboratories. I think with respect to the chairs in the cafeteria one would have to look at the chief purpose for which that particular room was being used.
Mr. Pallet!: Mr. Chairman, on this point the parliamentary assistant's answers seem

Excise Tax Act
to indicate the general attitude of this government with respect to educational matters. They make a show of giving an exemption and then become niggardly about it. If that is the interpretation which is being put on this section then I suggest it is not going to cost the treasury anything approaching the figure suggested by the parliamentary assistant. Because of the very interpretation put on the exemptions it is going to cost a great deal less than he has suggested. I believe it is high time this government realized the situation confronting education and took some constructive steps to assist.


Hear, hear.


I am certainly glad to hear the hon. member for Fort William agree with me and to know that there is at least some support. If he would only stand up and be counted we would certainly welcome it.
It is high time this government took some constructive steps within their own limits to help in the field of education. The future of this country depends on it. It is not going to take very much out of their own pockets. They have much money in the coffers which they have taken from the very taxpayers who are supporting the educational institutions. I was dismayed to hear the parliamentary assistant say they were giving this section the narrowest interpretation rather than the very widest. This has disturbed me as I am sure it has disturbed many hon. members in this house.


I said it was normally a generous interpretation.


But you are giving it a very narrow interpretation.


You were trying to quote me, or paraphrasing my remarks. That may be your view, not mine.


You specifically referred to the chairs in an auditorium which may or may not come under the provision. If a school has an auditorium it seems illogical that the chairs should not come under the section. Anything that is purchased for the school building should come within the scope of that section, and should not depend on the interpretation of a minister or a departmental official.
After all the school boards of this country are made up of very responsible people and they are certainly very conscious of not wasting the taxpayers' money.
I suggest that anything that is in a building used as an educational institution should be granted sales tax exemption and that there would be very little administrative difficulty
[Mr. Palfett.l
involved. It is certainly a lot more economical to administer in that way than to send out someone to see whether a chair is in an auditorium or somewhere else.


They fold up, you know.


If this indicates the government attitude to this particular matter then the day of reckoning, I think, will probably soon be at hand.


This indicates that it must be
a chair especially designed for use in classrooms. The chairs used in cafeterias are not especially designed for use in classrooms; they are designed for use in cafeterias, or just general purpose chairs. The interpretation of course may be a matter of determination by any inspector as to whatever category he wishes to place them in.
I would like to say, along the lines of the hon. gentleman who just spoke, that further consideration should be given to this matter in order to get some more specific ruling. By "more specific" I would say the whole thing should be generalized to cover all materials used in the construction or administration of schools, and that such materials ought to be exempt from tax. The fact is, and I say this as one who has taught in schools for quite a number of years, that we find it necessary and we have found it necessary in the past to use our auditoriums for gymnasium purposes and other classroom meetings in addition to general assembly. Auditoriums are, of course, also used for dances or other community enterprises when the school can make them available for such purposes.
Now, who is going to determine what purpose should be set out in the regulations? The parliamentary assistant, I think, should indicate to the house at this time whether, if the school board indicates that such a room has to be used for school room purposes, that will be sufficient to take advantage of the regulations or the change in the act or both.


Mr. Chairman, on the same point may I say this. Even if the department is not prepared to go as far as was suggested by the hon. member for New Westminster in dealing with all purchases by schools, surely there could be taken into consideration a change in the wording to read, "Desks and chairs sold to educational institutions for their own use."
It seems to me there is no reason why we should look with particular suspicion on purchases by boards of education. They are not going to go into the business of buying these chairs for resale to someone else; and obviously if it is a chair or desk required for an auditorium or a cafeteria which is involved

it is surely the intention of the government that such articles should be exempt. If that is their intention I am sure this wording could be changed to take care of the matter.


Mr. Chairman, my hon. friend is usually very sensible and reasonable, but when I read this item 1(b) referring to desks and chairs especially designed for use in classrooms I cannot understand why he would want chairs in an auditorium, which is often used for public meetings for which the school gets a fee, as well as for plays and meetings held therein, to be exempted.


In my estimation, Mr. Chairman, this is just an indication that this government does not realize the critical situation which exists in education today. As the hon. member for Peel said, we have some very responsible men on the school boards, and they find they have to utilize practically every square inch in the schools. The auditoriums sometimes also have to be used for classroom purposes because there is not enough room in the school. All over this country the same thing is happening, and there are classes being held in churches and other buildings. Therefore why should there be a special indication here that this exemption only applies to desks and chairs especially designed for classrooms?
I believe all these purchases should be exempted, because we just have to look into our municipal affairs a little bit to find how difficult is the work of our school boards in providing proper educational facilities, and how little money they sometimes have to work with. If this exemption were made more general it would certainly relieve some of the pressure on our school boards. As the hon. member for Peel said, the relief of school boards from paying sales tax on any of their purchases of equipment is most desirable.


Just on this point, Mr. Chairman, may I say I would expect that members of the opposition would minimize the administrative difficulties and the cost of widespread applications for exemptions for this, that and the other thing. Possibly my hon. friend will be more convinced if he will consider the fact that because of the difficulty of doing a lot of paper work on exemptions on particular items, in all the purchases by the federal government the sales tax is paid rather than carry on correspondence back and forth with the suppliers. As far as I know the provinces which impose sales tax-and there are quite a number of them these days- with the exception of the province of Quebec, impose that sales tax on their own departments rather than involve themselves with a great deal of paper work on refunds.
Excise Tax Act
As far as I know, and I think my facts are up to date, every provincial government imposes sales tax on both municipalities and the school boards. There are five or six such provinces. In addition to that most of them tax the hospitals also but, as my hon. friend knows, the federal government has a special exemption for public hospital institutions.


Mr. Chairman, the parliamentary assistant does not know what he is talking about in this connection.


Oh, oh.
Mr. Pallet!: Now just attend for a minute. Why would the dominion government, the federal government, give a sales tax rebate in such a case, because they collect it anyway. Further, with respect to provincial governments, they also collect it. It makes no difference to them whether they give a rebate or whether they collect it, because it is in their own pockets in any event.


Not the tax on the purchases by municipalities and school boards.


With respect to the provincial tax on municipalities and school boards, there is quite a different principle involved which the parliamentary assistant very carefully omitted to mention. That principle is that the provincial governments give grants to the municipalities and school boards and a very substantial part of the municipalities' money is obtained from provincial grants. The grants given this year by the province of Ontario to the municipalities will in all probability exceed the amount the province will receive back from the federal government under the dominion-provincial tax agreement.
I suggest to the parliamentary assistant that, in all fairness to this house, he should have given the round picture and not just the one down the centre.


My hon. friend to be
logical should state that the provinces provide both forms of assistance to the municipalities and the school boards.
Mr. Pallet!: Well, then, as to the administrative difficulties they try to do something similar to the one where hospitals are concerned, and quite properly have set up a system which I suggest would not be difficult to carry out. You know the whole thing about this question is that if you want to do something it is very easy to do it. If on the other hand you do not want to do something it is very hard to get it done.
1 suggest, Mr. Chairman, that this is the crux of the matter. If the government really wants to help the boards of education it will find this very easy to do.

Excise Tax Act


The parliamentary assistant did not answer my question, and I would like to put it to him again. Whose responsibility is it to determine exactly to what extent these auditoriums and cafeterias must be used as classrooms in order to qualify them for exemption from this tax?


It is the responsibility of the department which administers the law, the collection department, the Department of National Revenue.


To what degree does the auditorium or cafeteria have to be used in a school in order to be exempt from tax under the terms of the proposed legislation?


This is something new, and it will have to be determined by experience as the officials receive these applications for exemption.


Mr. Chairman, I am curious
about the wording of section 1 (b). It says "Desks and chairs specially designed for use in classrooms." This question of auditoriums has already been referred to, and the minister suggested that if the chairs were used in auditoriums they would not be free of sales tax. I wish to point out that in a great many municipalities there is a shortage of classrooms at the present time, in consequence of which auditoriums are used as classrooms. Under the present restricted interpretation of the act, as we have heard, chairs used in auditoriums would not be subject to exemption even though the auditoriums were used as classrooms.
Throughout this whole section of the excise tax resolution the wording is very vague. There are many double meanings and, if I may say so, the drafting seems to have been rather hastily done. I cannot see why the parliamentary assistant should take exception to suggestions of changes in the drafting which would clarify the position. Not only section (b) but section (c) is ambiguous, as the discussions which have taken place here have shown. This applies to other sections also.


I wonder if the parliamentary assistant could tell us what the additional loss of revenue would amount to if he included all types of desks and chairs used in educational institutions? How much greater than the $500,000 set out here would the loss of revenue be?


We have no figu