On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct to the Prime Minister a further question about the meeting in Bermuda between himself and Right Hon. Mr. Macmillan which is to take place the first of next week. Will not the Prime Minister reconsider the position which he took on March 19 that he himself would not raise the question of holding a conference of commonwealth prime ministers? Will the Prime Minister not go further and extend an invitation to hold the next commonwealth conference in Canada?
Right Hon. L. S. St. Laurent (Prime
Minister): Mr. Speaker, I think it may be that my language was not sufficiently clear, but I think the hon. gentleman rather misinterprets it. I did not say I would not raise the question, because I expected that question would be discussed. What I said was that I would not take the initiative in calling a meeting of the prime ministers. If the question is discussed we shall certainly discuss where the next meeting will be held, and I am sure we in Canada would feel honoured if the next meeting were held in Canada.


May I point out to the Prime Minister that his words on March 19 were as follows:
That is possible; but I am not going to take the initiative of requesting that there be a prime ministers' conference.
This of course did not indicate, as the Prime Minister said today, that he would not take the initiative in calling the conference.


I don't know whether there is any difference-and if there is I don't appreciate it-between calling a conference and requesting that there be a conference.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask two questions of the Minister of Fisheries about the seal hunting now going
on off Newfoundland and Labrador. Is this operation really necessary, and is it conducted in a humane manner? Second, is the rate of killing so high that the seals may soon become as extinct as the buffalo?


Mr. Speaker, this is a question which is often asked at this time of the year. As far as necessity is concerned, this is a commercial operation which has been carried on for over 300 years. The adult seal hides make good leather, the blubber is reduced to seal oil, the pelts of the baby seals are used as fur in the garment industry, and the sealers take the flippers home to Newfoundland to make that unique Newfoundland delicacy known as seal flipper pie.
As to whether it is a humane operation, if the hon. member is referring to the crews all I can say is that it is the most dangerous and disagreeable work done by any men in the fishing industry in Canada. The ships are small and many of them have been crushed in the pack ice; many of the hunters have been lost on the ice floes. If the hon. member is referring to the seals, as I suspect he is, with regard to the humane aspect of his question, I may say that the adult seals are killed by high powered rifles. Occasionally some of them are only wounded and escape, but that of course happens in any kind of hunting. The baby seals, who are not very mobile, are killed instantly by a heavy blow on the neck.
The rate of killing is a matter of agreement between Canada and Norway. I can, however, assure the hon. member that it is not such as to lead to any likelihood of the seal herds becoming extinct. In the last century we used to have as many as 400 ships and
10,000	men killing 750,000 seals each year, but last year we had just three ships with 120 men out there and they and the Norwegians killed a total of about 200,000 seals. The present size of the herd is about 3 million, and a lot of the fishermen in the Atlantic provinces think those 3 million seals eat too much fish.


On the orders of the day:
would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question. In view of the fact that practically all the news media in Toronto are to be prosecuted under the Lord's Day Act, which

Inquiries of the Ministry was created by this dominion government, would the minister say whether the federal government will take part in the court action either in defence of the act or as an observer?


I do not ordinarily raise any objection to the almost universal practice of members of the opposition not giving the notice required by the rules of the questions they ask, but on the present occasion I must raise that objection and take the hon. member's question as notice, instead of giving an offhand opinion on the matter she has raised.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, can the Minister of National Health and Welfare say whether the Indian health branch of his department intends to increase its fees to the medical profession for visits to Indians from the present rate of 50 cents in some cases and $1 in others? I have a case before me where an average payment of only 67.5 cents a visit was made to a physician for visits to Indians. Does the minister not agree there should be a standard rate?


Mr. Speaker, if my hon. friend will kindly let me see the letter he has and will discuss the matter with me personally I will be glad to look into the merits of the particular case.


I should like to address a further question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. He said he would look into the particular case. I understand these are the rates right across Canada for visits by physicians to Indians. I will show him the particular case I have in hand, but I hope he will look into the matter from the point of view of the service right across Canada.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Thursday, February 14, the hon. member for Kootenay West asked the Minister of National Health and Welfare the following question:
Has the minister heard any suggestions that miners working in uranium mines may be subject to radiation? If so, is any research work being done to establish the facts in this matter?

At that time the minister said a more detailed answer to the question would be given later. I now propose to give that answer.
It has been recognized for some years that uranium miners may be exposed to radiation because the ore being mined contains radioactive material. Studies in Canadian mines have shown that standard mine safety practices, particularly ventilation, can reduce radiation exposure below levels which have been declared safe by international radiation protection authorities.
Provincial authorities and crown companies have investigated mines under their jurisdictions and have instituted appropriate safety measures and continuing programs of health supervision. The Department of National Health and Welfare, in conjunction with Atomic Energy of Canada Limited, took part in a survey of a crown-operated mine in 1954, and is maintaining close liaison with provincial and other groups in efforts to ensure continued safe working conditions.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon.
member for Moose Mountain asked whether any complaints had been received about the postal facilities in the post office at Weyburn. A report was received a few weeks ago that due to the heavy load on general delivery and lock box sortation at the post office there was a shortage of lock box facilities, and arrangements were made immediately with the Department of Public Works to add more lock box facilities until the new federal building is completed, in which sufficient facilities have been provided.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration what progress his department is making in answering question No. 170 which was placed on the order paper over a month ago?


I shall endeavour to find out, sir.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. What is the current status of negotiations for the acquisition of a new post office site in Calgary? If these negotiations have been concluded, can we expect a start on construction in the current year?


We have had some problems there about property. Speaking from memory I think they have been pretty well overcome, but I had better take the question as notice and answer more fully at a later date.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Is the minister in a position today to make a reply to the question I asked him yesterday?


Mr. Speaker, the question addressed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare happens to come under the vocational training agreement between my department and a department of the provincial government of Ontario. Since the item has been brought to my attention, and since the statement by the minister of welfare of Ontario was given a good deal of publicity in the press, I think the best thing I can do is to quote from a letter I have addressed today to the Hon. Mr. Cecile:
Yesterday I read with some concern and no little surprise certain statements in a news article of the Globe and Mail allegedly taken from a speech made by you in the legislative assembly.
You are quoted as having said that the province was told that professional training in a university Is not covered by the terms of schedule "R", and that "we are constantly running into these negative attitudes and frustrations in every one of the programs in which we share expenditures with the federal government, etc." I hasten to assure you that not only has provision been made for sharing in the costs of professional training in universities, but special arrangements were made in the province of Ontario for having such cases approved without direct referral to Ottawa in order to avoid misunderstanding and delays when dealing with individual cases.
In the cases to which you referred the delay in approval has been due to genuine doubt on the part of the federal district treasury officer regarding eligibility of the claim and failure on the part
Inquiries of the Ministry of provincial officials in notifying the federal director of vocational training that approval has been granted by Mr. Moon on his behalf.
That is one of the provincial officials.
We have made inquiries and find that the claim to which you refer is now in process of payment.
I sincerely trust that the statements printed by the Globe do not represent your personal feelings and opinion regarding our mutual efforts to provide suitable satisfactory training programs for disabled civilians under the provisions of the vocational training agreement and schedule "R". If so, I can assure you that, in so far as I know, there has been no reason for such accusations and I sincerely hope that you will never have just cause for such opinion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, will the Secretary of State for External Affairs tell the house the function of the United Nations emergency force in the Gaza strip in view of recent developments? As you will remember, I asked him this question two days ago. He said he expected to be able to answer either yesterday or today.


Mr. Speaker, I said I would answer that question to the best of my ability, I thought either today or tomorrow, but perhaps it was yesterday or today. I would prefer to postpone my answer until tomorrow in the hope that I shall be able to obtain some information from Cairo about the results of the secretary general's visit to the Egyptian government. However, I will try to answer the question tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
There is one other question I asked yesterday about the memorandum from the Egyptian government concerning the use of the Suez canal. Can the minister give us that answer today and in particular let us know what provision there is that all tolls must be paid to Egypt?


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I could make a short statement on that question now. Last summer, July I think it was, the government stated its position in this house regarding the nationalization of the Suez canal company. At that time we indicated our view that Egyptian rights in regard to the operation of the canal, derived from the sovereignty of Egypt because the canal goes through Egyptian territory, must be

The Budget-Mr. Zaplitny reconciled with the international interest in the canal recognized, among other things, by the Constantinople convention of 1888.
We have also expressed our support for the six principles agreed on by the security council last October to govern the operation and control of the canal and any arrangement for that purpose which might be made.
As my hon. friend will know, one of those principles was that this international waterway was to be "insulated from the politics of any one state". Mr. Speaker, we have not weakened in any way in our support for these principles. As I stated the other day in the house, proposals have now been made by the four powers probably most concerned with passage through the canal to the Secretary General of the United Nations for the operation of the canal when clearance is completed. I indicated then what those proposals were. They have been passed by the secretary general to the government of Egypt.
The day before yesterday, I think it was, an Egyptian memorandum was circulated to all governments represented in Cairo with certain proposals governing this matter. This memorandum was tabled this morning, Mr. Speaker.
The memorandum, as we understand it, is not a reply to the four-power proposals I have mentioned, but was presumably issued at this time for negotiation purposes on the eve of the secretary general's visit and indeed on the eve of the opening of the canal.
Since receiving this memorandum, Mr. Speaker, we have discussed the significance of these proposals, which the Egyptian government itself has indicated are not final proposals, with other friendly governments more concerned than Canada is with navigation through the canal. While these exchanges of views are going on, and while the secretary general is negotiating in Cairo on this subject, we do not feel it would be wise or desirable for Canada alone, and before any other country has done so, to make any formal diplomatic protest as was suggested. Such a protest at this time would not appear to us to be either sensible or effective.


The house resumed, from Tuesday, March 19, consideration of the motion of Hon. W. E. Harris (Minister of Finance) that Mr. Speaker do now leave the chair for the house to go into committee of ways and means, and the

amendment thereto of Mr. Macdonnell, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Cameron (Nanaimo).
Mr. Speaker, when the debate was adjourned on Tuesday evening the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River had just completed an address in defence of the budget. It is not my intention to follow to any great extent the remarks he made, but there were two particular remarks to which I should like to make reference.
First of all, in his speech which in my opinion exposed rather serious inconsistencies in what was advocated by the official opposition, he made an assumption of his own which I think was rather noteworthy, when he stated that in his opinion the government had endeavoured to do most for the people who, to use his own words, suffer most under present conditions of inflation. It seemed to me that after having gone to quite an extent to try to prove there was no inflation or no great danger of inflation, he ended up by admitting that the majority of the people in this country are suffering from conditions of inflation brought about by his own government.
The other statement to which I want to make particular reference is, in my opinion, his unfortunate remark toward the end of his speech when he accused the hon. member for Greenwood of attempting to stab in the back, as he called it, the governor of the Bank of Canada and the institution itself. It is well known that I disagree most thoroughly with the economic theories of the hon. member for Greenwood. But, sir, even so, I have known him for the past 12 years and many members of this house have known him for many years longer than that, and if there is any phrase or language that cannot be applied to the hon. member for Greenwood it is that phrase, "stab in the back". It is simply not part of his character and certainly not his reputation to go about things in that manner. What he had to say he said in a forthright way, and whether he was right or wrong I do not think it was fair to describe his effort in those words, particularly when one looks at the record of the government itself to which he referred a little later.
The hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River also seemed to take great delight in pointing out, or making reference to the fact, that on this occasion the official opposition had not brought any quotations, editorials or news items to bolster their arguments. The reason he gave for that was that in his opinion the press had been almost unanimous in praising the Minister of Finance and the government for this budget. Well, I do not know just what

press he reads, but I have two clippings of the remarks of two spokesmen who are representative of a very large group of Canadians. One of the articles which appeared in the Winnipeg Free Press consists of a statement attributed to the president of the Canadian Federation of Agriculture, Mr. Hannam. The title of this news article reads, "Harris Squeezed; H. H. Displeased". In reference to the minister's prediction with regard to the income of agriculture in 1957, the article says:
"There is nothing we see which could justify such a prediction", he said, "although some increase may occur."
Even if the minister's prediction were accurate that would still mean that farmers are not sharing in the growth of the nation's prosperity since 1951- which has been considerable.
He also said that the minister's estimates, so far as agriculture is concerned, were almost certainly too optimistic. His intention may have been to damn the minister with faint praise, but he seems to have praised him with faint damns instead; because it indicates that in the opinion of the president of the federation of agriculture, even if the minister were right that this year's agricultural income would reach the 1951 level, the farmers would not be participating to the extent they should in the increased income of Canadians generally.
I have another clipping which is a little more forthright. It is a statement by the director of the united automobile workers. The united automobile workers' union represents 70,000 workers. I shall quote the item, which also appeared in the Winnipeg Free Press:
The united automobile workers Sunday termed the new federal budget "measly" and described its $6 old age pension increase as "an insult to the old and to the Canadian labour movement which has been demanding decent pensions."
Here are two statements, one by the leader of a farm organization and the other by the leader of a labour movement, which certainly are not complimentary and which express general disappointment with the budget.
The budget has been described in some of the press at least as an election budget, and a great deal has been said about the concessions that have been made in order to attract voters in the forthcoming election. But a close reading of the budget raises some doubts as to whether that is really meant, or whether it is going to be effective in that respect; because if it was meant to be a budget to attract voters, then the most that can be said about it is that it is a mighty small piece of bait to be placed in such a large trap. When you take the benefits that are contained in it and compare them with what was expected by the people at this time it certainly does not constitute a great attraction.
The Budget-Mr. Zaplitny In fact as one reads it over in the quiet of his office, away from the animation of the house and the pounding of desks which surrounded its presentation, it reminds one of the description of a soap opera that was given at one time by a gentleman who was not particularly fond of that type of entertainment.
He said there were two sobs and a commercial. In my opinion this budget is made up of a maximum of platitudes and a minimum of benefits, with a political speech tacked on at the end.
First let us take a look at the general record of the government. If the Minister of Finance were personally responsible for what has gone on in the government since 1935 when they came into power I would begin to feel rather apprehensive, because he could be accused of a very serious offence. I hasten to say that the Minister of Finance cannot be held personally responsible for what has transpired, but there is a law in this country which makes it an offence to debase currency. That is exactly what this government has done over the last 22-year period.
If one looks at the wholesale price index contained in the bureau of statistics figures he will find that the general index, taking 1935-39 as 100, reached the figure of 229.4 in 1957, in other words about two and a quarter times as high. The only way that can be interpreted in terms of purchasing power is that the 1935-39 dollar which we assume was worth 100 cents would be worth approximately 45 cents today.


Do you want to go back to 1935-39?


The minister asks if we want to go back to 1935-39. I am simply pointing out that the government has pushed us back further than 1935-39 by debasing the dollar to the extent of 55 cents. They have reduced the value of the dollar by 55 cents in their 22 years in office. They cannot get away from that, because that is indicated by figures published by the government. Everything that is quoted today in the way of statistics, every statement the minister makes with regard to benefits, taxes, gross national income and so forth, when given in dollars must be measured in relation to the value of the dollar as it now is, in other words as being worth only 45 cents. This is the result of 22 years of Liberal administration.
This is one reason I cannot take too seriously the concern the government expresses once in a while with respect to inflation. Every once in a while, particularly this year with an election facing them, they indicate a great deal of concern and anxiety

The Budget-Mr. Zaplitny about inflation and they indicate they are really going to do something about it. They talk in terms of credit restrictions, raising interest rates and so forth; all the ineffective measures they can think of, and they leave the impression that something is really going to be done to arrest inflation.
That is a lot of malarkey. The 22-year history of this government has been one continuous round of inflation, and no one is going to believe them now after 22 years when they say they have at last discovered a formula by which they are going to reverse the whole process and bring back the purchasing value of the dollar.
The government have used inflation or the effects of inflation or the inflated dollar as a means of making themselves politically popular. They can point to dollar increases in pensions, dollar increases in this and that, in expenditures and revenues, but all the time they forget to tell the public that the dollar of today is worth only 45 cents as compared with the dollar of 1935-39. These are facts which have to be faced; this is the criterion by which we have to measure every statement in the minister's budget speech. We must always bear in mind when he is talking in terms of dollars that he is referring to a dollar which has lost 55 cents in its purchasing power in the last 22 years.
One of the greatest disappointments in the budget is that so far as agriculture is concerned it seems to be the forgotten industry. It is true that in the last part of his speech, in the political addendum, the minister made a few references to what the government allegedly has done for agriculture, but he did not have one word to say anywhere in his budget about what were the intentions of the government or what were the plans of the government with respect to agriculture and the present price-cost squeeze which is being faced by that industry. There was not one word about parity prices.
Everyone knows, and surely this parliament must know by now, that today this is the first and foremost objective of organized agriculture across Canada. Hon. members from the prairies are perhaps a little more vocal with regard to agriculture than the average member, and the impression may be left that it is only the farmers in the prairie provinces who are interested in the principle of parity prices. Nothing could be further from the truth. Organized farmers from coast to coast are interested in the principle of parity prices, because they can see no other way by which this industry can be stabilized, thus assuring themselves and their children a future in agriculture. If there is ever going to be

hope for the family farm, if there is ever going to be any stability in agriculture, sooner or later this parliament will have to accept the principle of parity income for agriculture and proceed to put legislation on the statute books step by step in order to bring that principle into reality.
It is hard to believe that a question as nationally important as the question of parity income for agriculture should receive not one word of mention in the budget presented by the Minister of Finance. If he did not agree that agriculture should have parity income then it was his duty as a responsible minister speaking for the government and setting out government policy to have expressed his disagreement and told the house why he disagreed. But no, there was not one word about it. The minister seemed to pretend that the whole issue did not exist.
The minister and his supporters are going to find in very short order how wrong they are. That issue does exist, and in agricultural communities it is going to be a topnotch issue in the next general election. Liberal candidates, whether in the east or west, representing agricultural constituencies, are going to have to take their stand on this question and make up their minds and let their constituents know whether they stand for the principle of parity income for agriculture. Neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of Agriculture nor any combination of ministers are going to be able to dodge that issue this time. The farmers have waited a long time for an opportunity to place before candidates in a general election this question of parity prices, and they are going to do it this time. Candidates representing the Liberal party are going to have to take their stand on this question.
Any farmer or farm leader reading the present budget and finding not the slightest reference to parity prices can only assume that either the government has absolutely no concern about agriculture or that the government is anxious to avoid that issue entirely and therefore has made no reference to it in the budget.
There is not a word in the budget about any program which would bring price supports, even under the legislation that now exists in the form of the Agricultural Prices Support Act, to the producer. The discussions we have had in this house, both yesterday and at other times during this session, indicate the difficulty in bringing so-called floor price legislation down to the producer level. We have tried again and again to impress on the government, particularly upon

the Minister of Agriculture, the serious weakness which exists in the present method of applying these floor prices, pointing out that these price supports on agricultural products are at the present time at the level of the dealer or processor; that there is no guarantee and no machinery whatever to ensure that the price supports placed on the statute books of this house will be reflected in the price the producer receives for his product, eggs, butter, cream or whatever else it may be.
Surely it is time the government should have something to say about that. We have been carrying on this discussion for the last four years in this house. The Minister of Agriculture is himself firmly convinced that the present system is not working properly in the interests of the producer. But the budget has not a word to say about it. So far as the Minister of Finance is concerned the problem does not exist.
I understand that a large part of his own constituency, if not the whole of it, is an agricultural area, one of the finest in the province of Ontario. As a matter of fact I had the opportunity to discuss this very matter with some gentlemen from that constituency only a few days ago, and I can assure him they were very concerned about this question of bringing to the producer the benefit of the prices established under the Agricultural Prices Support Act. Unless before this session is over the minister shows a little more interest in this question than he has shown in his budget, I am sure the farm leaders in his constituency are going to have a few things to say to him at election time.
Another thing which is completely lacking in the budget is any reference to a national grain policy. Over and over again members from the western provinces have emphasized that if we are to have any kind of long-term stability and security for the grain producers of the prairies the government will have to establish some sort of national grain policy, in order to assume responsibility for the marketing and storing of Canadian grain in such a way that the Canadian farmer may receive something comparable with what is being received by his competitors in the United States, who have the benefit of a national grain policy. However, the only thing which has come before this house so far this session is a bill to extend the provisions with respect to bank loans guaranteed by the government.
This milk and water proposition has never had any appreciable effect on the situation. Apart from that nothing has been done, and the budget proposes nothing. In effect the budget says, "You will have to continue to
The Budget-Mr. Zaplitny worry about surpluses, about shortages of box cars, about quotas and about markets. We are going to leave you in the same position you have occupied since 1953. After four years of government we have found no solution, and we have no proposals to make; we can give you no hope whatsoever". That is the record of the government, and that is the kind of hope they extend to grain producers.
The Minister of Finance must realize that the production of grain in this country is one of the most important and basic industries carried on within this nation. To a very great extent Canada's prosperity depends upon the prosperity of the grain producers of this country, along with that of other agricultural producers, and it is not reasonable that a budget which in all likelihood will be the last budget of the present parliament should completely ignore the whole question and pretend there is nothing to be done in so far as a national grain policy is concerned.
Does the Minister of Finance think the farmers of western Canada are going to feel satisfied that the government is doing any thinking about this question when the whole budget contains not one word about it except, as I said, in the political appendix at the end of the minister's speech, where he gives himself a pat on the back to the extent of saying the government had at least guaranteed to the banks that if they made a few loans on grain they would not lose any money? Outside of that the government proposes nothing whatsoever in this budget for grain producers.
There is another matter to which I want to refer, and that is the question of this $6 increase in old age pensions. Many people have been wondering since the budget was brought down just how the government arrived at this figure of $6.


Fifteen per cent.


I wondered about it myself, because it seems rather an odd figure. It is not a nice, round figure like $10, $20 or $30; it was not even a round figure like $15. It happened to be $6. One hon. member suggests $5, and I will come to that in a moment.
I did a little deducing with regard to it. I cannot say I had my eye at the keyhole of the minister's office, but I just projected my imagination a bit, and I think I have the solution to what happened on that fateful day. I think the explanation is something like this. The C.C.F. amendment calls for an increase in old age pensions based upon the physical increase in our gross national product over the years.

The Budget-Mr. Zaplitny
That is a logical amendment to ask this house to adopt, because we feel that even assuming the old age pension rate in 1949 was adequate, every increase in the gross national product should be reflected in the allowances made to our senior citizens first and foremost, because the whole possibility of the increase in the gross national product arises as a result of the sacrifices and labours that our older citizens have put into this country. They should have first call on the national treasury when there has been an increase in the gross national product. So from that point of view our amendment sets out a logical contention. But by what logic did the government arrive at the figure of $6?
I think the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, who is unusually assiduous in these matters, had sold the idea to the Minister of National Health and Welfare that the increase should be $35 a month. Knowing, of course, the sympathetic nature of the Minister of National Health and Welfare I am sure he immediately recommended that figure to the Minister of Finance, and knowing his great persuasive powers I am also sure that he sold the proposition to the Minister of Finance. So in the first draft of the budget there was an item of $35 a month increase in old age pensions. There it stood, and as a matter of fact I think the Minister of National Health and Welfare rather slyly already had feelers out among the various Liberal members to say that the great moment had arrived, that the strategic moment had come to announce that there was to be a very substantial increase in old age pensions.
But on the last day, just before the budget came down, along came the Minister of Trade and Commerce and said to the Minister of Finance-I take them in order to precedence-"What is this I hear about a $35 increase?" The Minister of Finance replied. "Well, there it is; it is written in the book". Then the Minister of Trade and Commerce said, "Look, you have to remember that the trans-Canada pipe line has not even reached Winnipeg. It is an awfully long way from Montreal, and there is going to be many a dip into the public treasury before we get it as far as Montreal. I have some ideas of my own right now. It would be impolitic to do it before an election, but I am going to make a call on you after the election, so you had better have something in reserve."
Well, the minister had to do some quick calculating, so he decided that he would have to deduct $10 from the $35, which left him with only $25. Then along came his parliamentary assistant. Judging by his speech of Tuesday evening he has a rather


soft spot in his heart for corporations, because he seemed almost to weep for the poor corporations. He persuaded the minister that this would not be a good year in which to reduce corporation taxes because it might prove to be very unpopular in an election year, but that after all, for services rendered, right after the election something would have to be done for these poor corporations in the next budget. So logic is logic, and the minister took off another $10 bringing it down to $15.
Then along comes the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. McCann). Of course he is a senior member of the cabinet, his word is weighty and he has to be listened to. He says, "Now, Walter, do you remember when we had the debate last year about the kickbacks we had to make to certain power corporations in the province of Quebec after they had paid their taxes into the national treasury? They took us to the appeal board and we took them to the exchequer court and we won the case. It was decided we had the right to tax and the money was in the treasury, but somehow we made a deal and we kicked back to them half the money they had paid, amounting to around $3 million. The same kind of thing is going to happen again. Obviously we cannot do it this year, but it will have to be done right after the election." The Minister of Finance had to make allowance for that, so he did a little calculating and knocked off another $3.
And so it went on until the bank conference that took place on the same day. The bank managers served notice on the minister that if he wants more housing he is going to have to be prepared to pay higher interest rates. The minister knows very well that it would not only be a matter of higher interest rates on housing loans. If interest rates are increased it is going to cost more to finance all our public borrowing. Therefore the minister had to make some allowance for that so he reached the stage where he had to cut down his increase to $9 a month.
He was willing to settle for that, but along came the member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre (Mr. Thatcher) at that particular moment. As we know, the member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre has a reputation to live up to. He has been rather consistently opposed to any increases in social security payments because he is a great believer in the virtue of poverty. Perhaps he could be used as a horrible example for those who do not possess that virtue. He persuaded the minister that he simply must reduce the increase by another $4 to bring it down to a nice round figure, the $5 which the hon.

member for Qu'Appelle (Mr. Mang) was advocating a few minutes ago. Down it comes to $5 and the minister puts down his pen and says, "That is that; I am not going to touch it any more."
But he had not taken into account one more member of the cabinet, because just at that moment the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration (Mr. Pickersgill) comes along wearing his short pants and boy scout hat and says, "Just remembered it is a long time since I have done my boy scout good deed. I have not done my good deed for this week." Under his arm he has a whole pile of letters which he has borrowed from the Minister of National Health and Welfare. They are heartrending letters from poor pensioners across the country describing the almost indescribable conditions under which they have to live, with higher rents, higher costs and pensions of only $40 a month.
So the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, who is a master of histrionics, reads these letters very dramatically to the Minister of Finance; and before he is finished they are in each other's arms sobbing away with tears streaming down their faces. The Minister of Finance says, "Oh, my, John, you have saved me from making a terrible mistake. You have convinced me that it would have been heartless and cruel to do what I have been doing, knocking these amounts off the increase step by step. I owe you a great debt for what you have done. You have completely converted me, and I shall make the pension not $5 a month more but $6 a month more." That is how we got the $6.
This, of course, is all hypothetical, but it is the only kind of logic I can imagine by which the government arrived at that figure. It is not based on the increase in the gross national product, it is not based on the increase in the cost of living, it is not based on anything I can see except the pressures exerted upon the minister by lobbyists and others.


And the effort to buy a few votes.


If it were based on the cost of living index, then taking the increase from 1949 to 1957 alone the old age pension would have had to be increased to not less than $50 a month, as a matter of fact to a little over $50 a month. If it were based on the increase in the gross national product the old age pension should be $75 a month. But it is based on nothing but this type of lobbying and chiselling going on behind the scenes. That is how they have arrived at $6 a month.
Another matter which is a great disappointment to the taxpayers of Canada generally,
The Budget-Mr. Zaplitny particularly those in the lower income groups, has to do with the exemption levels. The present exemption levels of $1,000 for a single person and $2,000 for married persons have been in existence for quite a number of years. During that time the cost of living has gone up steadily year after year. If any logic whatsoever is to be applied to the existing exemption levels, in other words if they were based on any logic or justice when they were set at $1,000 and $2,000 on the basis of the cost of living at that time, then certainly in establishing any sort of justice today we should take into consideration the increase in the cost of living, and the exemption levels for single and married persons should bear some relation to that.
I do not know what the exact figures would be. They could have been $2,500 and $1,500 or $3,000 and $1,500, but no one can argue that an exemption level of $1,000 for a single person, which was considered logical and just four or five or six years ago, is still logical and just today. By leaving the exemption figures at the same levels the minister is actually dipping his hand into the pocket of the taxpayer to the extent that the cost of living has increased through inflation.
If the minister wanted to do anything at all to help the small businessman, who is up against a real problem these days, in my opinion the easiest way he could have done so would have been to increase the personal exemption level, because the average small businessman is running a family establishment. The average small grocery store or any other small establishment is a family business. It is not a huge corporation. It is not run in the same way as a corporation. It is a family business in which the husband, the wife and quite often some of the adult children lend a hand. The easiest and surest way in which the minister could have provided some relief for the small businessman from the taxpaying point of view would have been to raise the exemption level and give these people the opportunity to benefit to that extent, but nothing whatever was done.
I want to say something about the whole question of inflation. Most of the debate up to this point has revolved around the question of inflation. First of all, I think the word "inflation" is not an accurate description of what is going on. We are told there are too many dollars chasing too few goods, but no one in the debate so far, either on the government side or in the official opposition, has taken the trouble to tell us what the goods are that they describe as being too few. In other words, of what goods are we in short supply in this country? What kind of goods are being chased by too many dollars? No one has said.

The Budget-Mr. Zaplitny


I did in my budget speech.


Perhaps the minister did, and perhaps he will indicate which shortages he had in mind.


Read it.


If I remember correctly
there was some reference to steel and building materials, but I recall no reference to anything else. What is actually going on is not inflation in its theoretical sense. What is really going on and what is causing the trouble today is profiteering. It is because too much is being taken out for too little service rendered. When you look at the figure of the consumer debt, which has now reached the figure of something like $3 billion in this country, certainly it does not indicate that those people who owe the consumer debt of $3 billion are the ones who possess too many of those dollars which are theoretically supposed to be chasing too few goods, because if they had too many dollars they would not be borrowing them; they would be spending them instead. But people are spending money they do not have.
Then when you look at the other side of the picture and you look at the profits of the huge corporations in this country you find that the record since 1946 has been almost unbroken, year after year, with increases of 30 per cent, 40 per cent, 30 per cent, 25 per cent. Year after year the huge corporations have been taking money out of the hands of the people at a faster and faster rate. So on the one hand you have profiteering, with huge accumulations of profits. On the other hand you have a $3 billion consumer debt. Surely it can now be said, in the words of the famous statesman of England who applied it to a different situation, that never have so many owed so much to so few.
Here you have a huge mass of the people owing $3 billion, and a small group of corporations increasing their profits by leaps and bounds. That is the kind of situation that is going on. That is the real thing that is causing the hardship. It is not a question of too much money chasing too few goods. It is a question of not enough money in the hands of the people who need it chasing goods which are in the hands of the people who have too much money to start with. That is your situation. If the government are going to do anything effective about it, they are going to have to take steps other than those they are taking.
What are the steps they are taking now? They are increased interest rates which slap everybody across the board, whether they deserve it or not.


Order. I am extremely sorry to interrupt the hon. member, but it is my duty to advise him that his time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, in rising to take part in this debate I should like at the very outset to add my congratulations to those which have already been expressed to the Minister of Finance for bringing down this excellent budget. I should like to congratulate him first of all on the courageous action he has taken in the measures adopted to combat inflation, which is the greatest danger point in our economy at the present time. I think the measures he has taken are all the more to be commended because they have been taken at this particular time.


What measures?


The minister has decided to use approximately half the surplus that he would otherwise have had in order to reduce the public debt. At the same time, however, the minister has found it possible to reduce taxes and to increase certain social security benefits. I am sure these measures will be welcomed across the country, particularly the reductions in sales taxes and excise taxes which will be of benefit to the housewife, and the increases in the social security benefits in the form of old age pensions, disability pensions, veterans allowances, family allowances and others. These will afford real relief to those who need that relief most.
Furthermore, I think it should be pointed out that many of these increased benefits will go almost immediately into the money stream for purchasing consumer goods, and consequently will not drive up to any marked extent any inflationary demand for capital goods, which has been one of the principal causes of the present inflation. It will also be noted by the house that some of these benefits will not come into effect immediately but will come into effect later in the year, by which time there is reason to believe that some part of the inflationary pressures will have moderated somewhat.
There is one particular measure to which I should like to refer at a little greater length, namely the tax postponement provision with regard to retirement annuities. This is a measure which I think has commended itself to the entire country. This provision will provide needed relief for the professional and commercial classes, for the small businessman. At the same time it will provide a direct encouragement to private saving and is therefore definitely anti-inflationary. That may perhaps help to answer the question

proposed from the other side of the house a moment or two ago as to what measures have been taken. That is one that could be mentioned, among others.
I should now like to turn to another aspect of the minister's speech. I was glad to notice his promise of co-operation with the recently-appointed royal commission on the revision of the financial terms of union with Newfoundland, a commission whose appointment was provided for under section 29 of the terms of union concluded in December, 1949. At this point I should like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the government on the appointment of three such distinguished Canadians to be the members of that commission. They are all men eminently qualified for the highly responsible task which has been entrusted to them. We in Newfoundland have the utmost confidence in their ability, and we look forward with keen anticipation to their report.
Perhaps I might add that we in Newfoundland feel that an upward revision of the financial terms of union is urgently required if Newfoundland is to maintain the standard of public services which it has established. The Newfoundland provincial government has undertaken a program of expansion in social services and public works which is of great dimensions, having regard to the resources of the province. A great deal of progress has been achieved in the past few years since we entered union, but a great deal remains to be done before we can attain the average Canadian standard of public services.
Newfoundland is in many ways a special case because of the scattered nature of our population, the difficulties of communication, the overhead in connection with education, medical services, the provision of roads, and various other public services. Consequently the provision of an improved standard-and it has been greatly improved-has required heroic measures of taxation.
The taxes in Newfoundland are very high. Our gasoline tax, for example, is 17 cents a gallon. There is a sales tax of 3 per cent on all articles including foodstuffs. I commend these taxes to the attention of the house, because they show the steps our provincial government has had to take in order to raise our provincial services to a level which is still far from bei