Mr. Speaker, on February 19 I answered several questions on the subject of stock options for senior officials of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines. I now find that my memory was at fault, and that in fact, when the government entered into the agreement on May 8, 1956, copy of which was tabled in the house on May 9, I was aware of the fact that there were options outstanding.
I apologize for having inadvertently misled the house, but in fact hon. members have had the document referring to the options available to them since May 9, 1956. However, I should add that I am still of the view that there is nothing improper in the directors of Trans-Canada having granted stock options to certain of the corporation's employees and officers, upon whom in large measure the success of the enterprise has depended and will depend.


May I ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce when the options were exercised by Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates?


I cannot say, Mr. Speaker. All I know is that when the prospectus was issued on the sale of the shares, the prospectus indicated that the options had been exercised. I have no knowledge of when they were exercised.


Can the minister get that information and give it to the house?


It is private information of the company. I can ask for it. Whether or not I get it will depend on whether or not the company wants to give it. It is not information in the possession of the government.


I wonder if I could make a very brief statement on Hungarian student refugees in Canada. Hon.
members may have noted in the press this morning that the board of governors of McGill University, acting in co-operation with the government of Canada and the national conference of Canadian universities, have made available a hostel for Hungarian student refugees until August 15, 1957, at which time these buildings will be required for academic use.
Details of the scheme, worked out by a small committee under the chairmanship of Senator Hartland Molson, were announced by Principal James on Saturday and, as I say, appeared in the morning papers. The hostel will provide accommodation for about 140 Hungarian students during the early part of their stay in Canada. The government has co-operated by helping with a loan of furnishings through the Department of National Defence and by providing for the subsistence of the students until May 31 or any earlier date on which they may accept employment. Dr. E. Clifford Knowles, chaplain and student counsellor at McGill University, is in direct charge of the project, and Mrs. Frederick Smith, who has been appointed by the national conference of Canadian universities as its liaison officer with newly arrived Hungarian refugee students, is working in collaboration with him.
Most of the Hungarian students, when they arrive in Canada, do not speak either English or French and are unfamiliar with Canadian measurements and standards. They are ignorant also of Canadian education practices. The principal of McGill indicated that while these students are in residence at Petofi house, which is the name McGill has given to this hostel, they will be given the opportunity to take intensive courses in English and French. As soon as they have acquired some knowledge of one or the other of the official languages, the Hungarian students will be provided with information regarding the various Canadian universities, so that they can make their choice and may apply for admission at the beginning of the next regular session in the autumn of 1957. Meanwhile, residence on the campus of McGill University will offer them an introduction to Canadian university life and an opportunity to establish contact with Canadian students.
As the hostel at McGill will accommodate 140 students and it is anticipated that in the very near future there will be approximately an additional 200 Hungarian students in Canada for whom accommodation has not yet been arranged, I am very hopeful-I should

Proposed Legislation
like all hon. members who represent university towns to note this-that other universities will be able to follow the example of McGill and, I might add, the examples of Toronto and the University of British Columbia and improvise temporary accommodation so these students may have an opportunity between now and the end of May of learning enough English or French to enable them to take employment of a character which should give them a real chance to continue their studies in our universities next autumn


for leave to introduce Bill No. 178, to amend the Merchant Seamen Compensation Act.


Could we have an explanation?


As I think the house knows, the Minister of Labour has for some time been contemplating changes in the benefits and administrative provisions of this act, and this is a bill for that purpose.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Prairie Grain Producers Interim Financing Act, 1956, to enable the governor in council to extend the application of the act to authorize and govern guaranteed loans that may be made by banks in the period October 1, 1957 to June 1, 1958; to provide that the rate of interest charged by the banks on a loan shall not exceed a rate prescribed by the governor in council; and to increase the maximum amount of a loan from fifteen hundred dollars to three thousand dollars.


Motion agreed to.
On the order:
The Prime Minister-the following proposed motion:-That a select committee to be designated be appointed to consider such of the estimates as may be referred to it and to report from time to time its findings and recommendations to the house, and that the provisions of standing order 67(1) limiting the number of members on special committees be suspended in relation thereto.
[Mr. Pickersgill.l
Stand.


May I perhaps state that this order under "government notices of motions", which is a motion in the name of the Prime Minister, should under our new rules be simply transferred to government orders.
Do I understand that this notice is to be transferred to government orders?


There is no objection to it being transferred to government orders. Since this is private members' day, we did not want to take up the time reserved for private members in discussing the motion at this moment.


Order. According to the rules, the motion appearing in the name of the Prime Minister under "government notices of motions" will be transferred to government orders.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to ask leave to move the adjournment of the house under standing order 26. When I send to you, as I will in a moment, a copy of my motion Your Honour will notice that I have crossed out certain lines of the motion as I had drafted it before the house convened today. These lines have been crossed out in view of the apology the Minister of Trade and Commerce made to the house a few minutes ago. My amended motion reads as follows:
Mr. Speaker, I ask leave, seconded by the hon. member for Assiniboia (Mr. Argue), to move the adjournment of the house under standing order 26, for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, the fact that the Minister of Trade and Commerce, on behalf of Her Majesty in right of Canada, signed an agreement dated May 8, 1956, which was also signed by Mr. N. E. Tanner and Mr. C. S. Coates, who along with Mr. R. J. Wallace declared that they were all the persons who at that time held options to purchase shares in Trans-Canada and made certain pledges to Her Majesty in right of Canada with reference to their options, making it clear that the minister must have been aware of such options, and hence the need for this house to give consideration to the way in which parliament and the country have been misled by not being informed as to the extent to which there would be private gain as a result of the financial support made available to Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited from the public treasury.


Has the hon. gentleman leave to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose set out in his motion?


No.


Those who support the motion will please rise.
And more than 20 members having risen.


Since more than 20 members have risen, the motion will be allowed for debate.
Mr. Knov/les: Mr. Speaker, I wish at the outset to say, as I implied in my introductory remarks a few moments ago, that we accept the apology of the Minister of Trade and Commerce for his misstatement which he now finds he made to the house last Tuesday afternoon. Perhaps he will not mind if even as one who accepts that apology I put on the record the facts which underlie the need in our view for having this matter discussed at this time.
Last Tuesday, February 19, as reported at pages 1417 and 1418 of Hansard, questions were asked relating to news reports to the effect that two gentlemen, Mr. N. E. Tanner and Mr. C. S. Coates, had made rather substantial gains from exercising their options to purchase shares of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines stock. My colleague the hon. member for Nanaimo (Mr. Cameron) asked this question:
Was the government aware that these gentlemen had options on blocks of stock at the time the government undertook the agreements to help to finance the company?
The reply made on that occasion by the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe), which he now admits was in error, was in these words:
No, Mr. Speaker, I was not aware of it and I doubt if the options were outstanding at that time.
There may be some connection between the minister's statement to the house today and the fact that for several days following that statement of his on February 19 I endeavoured to get to the bottom of this matter and to find out what the facts really were. I consulted sessional paper No. 174-P which was tabled by the minister's parliamentary assistant last year during the course of the pipe line debate and I ascertained that at the time the agreements were made between the government and Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited with respect to financial assistance to that company there were certain undertakings both ways. The government undertook to make a certain sum of money available to the company as a loan toward the building of the western leg of the pipe line. The company undertook to build that western leg by December 31, 1956, and it also undertook to repay the loan by April 2, 1957. In addition to those undertakings there was a five party agreement relating to the shares of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited and
Trans-Canada Pipe Lines also relating to the options to purchase shares which were then outstanding.
I do not need to argue the point that they were then outstanding because despite the statement made by the Minister of Trade and Commerce last Tuesday he has now admitted that they were outstanding. Nevertheless I think the record should be made complete in this regard. The five party agreement that was signed at the same time as the agreement providing for the $80 million loan had to do with certain pledges regarding the shares and the options which the shareholders and the optionees made to the government. The shareholders agreed, by the terms of the agreement of May 8, 1956, to place all the shares which they then held

they appear to add up to 1,928,183- in escrow with the deputy minister of finance. The deputy minister of finance was given the authority by this agreement to hold those shares as security for the loan made by the government. Incidentally the agreement respecting the placing of those shares in escrow was signed by all the shareholders. Those signatures, so I understand through channels that are appropriately open to a member of parliament, in some instances were made by the shareholders themselves and in some instances they were made by attorneys signing on behalf of the shareholders.
We were all aware of that last year; we were all aware of the fact that all the shares then outstanding were placed in escrow. But something else was done at the same time and despite my further search through the record of the pipe line debate which we had in this house last year I cannot find any reference to that other fact.
The other fact is that in addition to the pledging of the shares, in addition to the shares being placed in escrow with Mr. K. W. Taylor, deputy minister of finance, all of the persons who then held options signed an agreement to the effect that if they exercised any of these options while the loan was still outstanding the shares they bought on the basis of those options would also be placed in escrow with the deputy minister of finance. According to this agreement there were at that time only three persons who held such options and those three persons signed to that effect under or over these words:
Being all the persons who hold options to purchase shares of Trans-Canada.
Those three persons were Mr. R. J. Wallace, who gave his address as Houston, Texas; Mr. N. E. Tanner, who gave his address as Calgary, Alberta; Mr. C. S. Coates, formerly of Texas but who gave his address as Toronto,

Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Ontario. I understand that Mr. Wallace signed through an attorney but that Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates both signed this agreement in their own hands. The Minister of Trade and Commerce, acting on behalf of Her Majesty in the right of Canada, also signed in his own hand.
A point which I think needs to be crystal clear is that on the occasion of the agreement of May 8, 1956, there was down in black and white over the signatures of Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates the fact that they then held options to purchase shares in Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited. Those two gentlemen, Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates, along with Mr. Wallace, declared that at that time they were the only persons who held options to purchase shares in Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited.
In respect to the shares we were told in an appendix to the agreement how many there were, namely, 1,928,183, but we were not told in this agreement and I cannot find any place in the Hansard record of the debate where we were told in the house how many shares Mr. Wallace, Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates held options to purchase or what were the terms of those options. However, we do know now, ten months after we were involved in that debate. I have been able to borrow from a friend of mine a copy of the prospectus.


From the man
who bought the shares?


This friend of mine happens to be in the press gallery and I doubt if he was able to buy any shares. As I say, I obtained this copy from a friend of mine in the press gallery acting in his individual capacity. On page 31 of the prospectus we are told that the company did issue to Mr. N. E. Tanner, president of the company, an option exercisable on or before March 8, 1959, to purchase 60,000 common shares of the capital stock of the company at a price of $8 per share. I still do not have precise evidence as to when those options were given to Mr. Tanner. However, the fact that they were exercisable until March 8, 1959, suggests that they were probably issued on March 8 in some earlier year.
Obviously it could not have been March 8, 1957, because we have not yet reached that date. They must, therefore, have been given to him on March 8, 1956, or, perhaps, on March 8, 1955, or even earlier. At any rate, the prospectus of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited issued just a few weeks ago confirms the fact that Mr. Tanner had options and also establishes the fact that the number of options he had was 60,000.

The same prospectus indicates that Mr. C. S. Coates, executive vice president and general manager of the company, had an option exercisable on or before July 31, 1959, to purchase 50,000 common shares at the price of $8 per share, or for the market value of such shares at the date the option was exercised, whichever was the lesser.
In the paragraph to which I am referring, on pages 31 and 32 of the prospectus, there is also a reference to Mr. R. J. Wallace, the third of the trio of May 8, 1956, who at that time had been given by the company options on 5,000 shares. This same paragraph indicates certain other persons who have been given options since that time. Obviously these options were not outstanding when the agreement was drawn up on May 8, 1956, but have been issued since that time. The same paragraph contains this sentence.
In February, 1957, Mr. Tanner exercised the option granted to him to the extent of 55,000 shares, and Mr. Coates exercised the option granted to him for 50,000 common shares.
It is that latter information which came out in the press a week ago today which was the basis of the questioning that took place in the House of Commons last Tuesday afternoon. We now know that these two gentlemen, Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates, have exercised, to the extent of 55,000 shares in the case of Mr. Tanner and 50,000 shares in the case of Mr. Coates, the options which they held a year ago to purchase shares in this company.
My motion, as Your Honour knows because you have in your hand a copy as I drafted it earlier today-some lines I have crossed out-originally made reference to the fact that last week the Minister of Trade and Commerce made a statement at variance with the facts.
It is now clear that the minister had forgotten. It is now clear that so far as any misleading of the house last Tuesday is concerned, that has been straightened out. But, Mr. Speaker, what still remains is the fact that all through that tumultuous pipe line debate of 1956 this house was never told how many options to purchase shares had been given to Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates, nor was this house ever told what the terms of those options were. We were told by the Minister of Trade and Commerce on Friday, June 1 of last year-a day not soon to be forgotten-something that relates to what I am now raising as a matter of urgent public importance when he said: "This idea that the insiders are making a 'killing' is absolutely wrong."
Mr. Speaker, what a statement! The minister, when he made that statement on June 1 last year, knew, on his admission today- an admission which he did not make last

Tuesday but which he has made to the house today-that Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates had these pieces of paper, these options, entitling them to purchase 60,000 and 50,000 shares respectively-options which at that time were only pieces of paper but which could become of great value. What was it that would make these pieces of paper assume great value? First of all, the passing of the bill which was put through this house last year to provide the loan to Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited, and also the loan for building the line through northern Ontario.
Subsequently, there were other developments which might take place to give greater value to these options, for example, the gaining of contracts to supply gas, and obtaining the necessary permission of the board of transport commissioners.
Lo and behold, now after these conditions have been met; after the money had been lent to the company and the building of the line is under way; after many contracts have been secured, more than the company thought they could get for the supplying of gas in Canada; after they have obtained permission from the board of transport commissioners,-in other words, when the point is reached where there is no risk whatever in exercising these options,-Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates exercise those options which the minister, all during the debate last year, knew that they had. What is the result? They do exactly what on June 1 last year the minister told us could not be done; they make a killing as the result of support from the public treasury made available to Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited.
I submit that not only did the Minister of Trade and Commerce know this last year during that debate, as he now admits he did, but that those on the government side in the cabinet must have known it. Surely the Prime Minister did not sit there and allow a matter like this to go through without looking at an agreement like this and finding out, as a corporation lawyer, just what the fine print meant. Surely the Minister of Finance, whose deputy minister signed this agreement, receiving in escrow the shares and receiving the pledges that any shares purchased on the basis of these options would also be put in escrow, was not unaware of the existence of these options.
Yet, Mr. Speaker, we never had it brought out that these gentlemen, Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates, on the basis of these pieces of paper which they had last year and about which the minister said in this house what he did, would make what by any definition is a real killing. They are permitted, by virtue of the options they had last year-by virtue
Trans-Canada Pipe Lines of the options about which the minister knew -to purchase these shares at $8 at a time when they are selling for $10. Incidentally I may say that, from the prospectus which I have before me, I understand that ordinary individuals who wish to buy shares in this company must buy them in package lots. They are obliged to take a debenture of $100 in order to get five of these shares at $10 each. Yet Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates are able to buy in February, 1957, in the one case 55,000 shares and in the other case 50,000 shares at $8 each at a time when they are being sold at $10 a share which is to them immediately a profit of $110,000 in one case and $100,000 in the other. If that is not making a killing, I do not know the meaning of the word. Why are they able to make a killing? Because of the aid made available to Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited out of the public treasury because of a bill that was forced through this House of Commons last year.
Mr. Speaker, I doubt whether I have properly described the killing that these gentlemen are making because the press reports are to the effect that these shares, once they are being traded on the market, will be sold at even higher prices. Some press reports suggest $15 a share. One press report which I have on my desk says that a few days ago they were being bid at $19, with the asked price being $21. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, if one conjectures that the value of these shares may be as high as $18 or $20, you have each of these gentlemen, Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates, in the position to make a profit of half a million dollars. Yet on June 1 of last year we were told that this was not a proposition in connection with which the insiders would make a killing. Here were these two insiders in a position then-on the basis of pieces of paper of which the minister was fully aware-to make the very kind of killing which the minister on June 1, 1956, said could not be made.
May I point out, Mr. Speaker, that one of the many efforts that we made to get proper discussion and a proper consideration of the pipe line bill last year related to these particular agreements which I have cited and to which the minister himself referred in his earlier remarks. You will recall, Mr. Speaker, that I contended that the bill was imperfect because it made reference to these agreements but did not include them as a schedule to the bill. I argued that they should have been included as a schedule to the bill so that parliament would be involved in whatever was contained in those agreements and so that we would have a chance to discuss them and question them, page by page and line by line. We were denied the right to have

Trans-Canada Pipe Lines those agreements as a schedule to the bill, both by a decision of the chair and by a refusal on the part of the minister to agree to our request. We continued to press for the agreements to be made a schedule to the bill right to the very end. That to which I am now going to refer cannot be proven from the record but I may say that on the night last year when the clauses of the bill were being put through in committee, under closure, without any debate whatsoever, there were a number of us who raised points of order at various stages. The last point of order I raised that night or that morning at 2 o'clock or 3 o'clock, whatever it was, or which I attempted to raise but which the chairman of the committee would not allow me to raise, was to the effect that Mr. Speaker had said that the place to do something about getting these agreements made a schedule to the bill was not while the Speaker was in the chair but when we were in committee on the bill. So when the battle was at its very end I was still trying to get these agreements included as a schedule to the bill. If we could have won that point we might have had a chance to ask questions about these options. We might have had a chance to find out-as we should have been told-that Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates held options on 60,000 and 50,000 shares, respectively.
Mr. Speaker, we in this group view this matter extremely seriously. We feel that for a responsible minister of the crown to keep this one item of information to himself during the whole of last year's debate is not the part of responsibility. I say to him that in another parliament like unto ours action such as that would immediately be followed by the resignation of the minister. We were refused all the opportunities that we sought to get information and to ask questions. Here was a crucial point and we were given no opportunity to get the appropriate information nor did the minister offer to tell us on his own initiative that these men held these options. Hut-


I assume that my hori. friend reads the documents that are tabled. You certainly had notice there that those options were outstanding. If he did not read the notice, it is not my fault. I gave it to parliament for that purpose.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the minister for his interruption. Yes; I read those documents from stem to gudgeon, inside and out. But may I point out that while the document in question revealed the fact that these three men held options, it did not reveal how many options they held.


You could have asked that question.


Could have asked? Mr. Speaker, listen to my Liberal friends saying we could have asked. Were they here? What chance did we have?


You had 16 days to do it.


No questions were answered.


We were given absolutely no information as to how many options were held. As to those who held shares, that was included in the document but we were not given the information concerning this little sentence: "R. J. Wallace, N. E. Tanner, C. S. Coates, being all the persons who hold options to purchase shares of Trans-Canada."
I submit, Mr. Speaker, that not to have given that information was a grievous oversight on the part of the minister. In fact, he regarded it so lightly that he had forgotten all about it when he was asked the question on Tuesday of last week. The hon. member for Notre Dame de Grace says that perhaps the minister had not read the document. I do not think that. This minister has a reputation for care and for knowing what is in the fine print. We know we can stand up in the house on the orders of the day and ask him questions about uranium or wheat in Japan or box cars, and he has got the answers. He has full knowledge of what goes on in his department, and he cannot tell me he was not aware of this very important item.
As a matter of fact, Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates would not have thought of this. idea themselves, of pledging their options. They only signed to pledge their options because the minister required it in the agreement when he asked them to sign it. So there we are, Mr. Speaker; we were taken through the whole of that debate without ever being given this information. My hon. friends say we did not ask for it. They know what chance we had to get this or any other information. They know how we tried in all ways, and they know that so far as these agreements were concerned, we did not have any chance whatever to discuss them. The minister would not even agree to adding them as a schedule to the bill. Once we got into committee of the whole, where we might have had a discussion concerning the agreements, we were under closure, double closure, triple closure that denied us an opportunity to discuss this matter.
Since we are making these references to Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates, may I say just who these gentlemen are. According to the company's prospectus Mr. N. E. Tanner has been president of the company since March, 1954, when he resigned as president of Merrill Petroleums Limited and Sturdie Propane

Limited, which positions he had held since 1952. Prior to that time he was minister of lands and forests and minister of mines and minerals for the province of Alberta, which positions he had held for approximately 15 years. He is the director of the National Trust Company Limited and of the Alberta Gas Trunk Line Company Limited.
I understand that prior to his entry into provincial politics Mr. Tanner was a school teacher. The fact that a school teacher is now able to buy 55,000 shares at $8 per share or $440,000 worth of stocks is something, I am sure, that will amaze the school teachers who are in this house. Mr. Tanner, so we now find, was enjoying a salary last year from this company, while we were debating the matter here, of $35,000. We find now that his contract of employment is for five years at a salary of $35,000 a year, with the understanding that if at the end of the five years there is not mutual agreement about his continuing as president of the company, he will be given a separation allowance or a retiring allowance for five years of $15,000 a year. This is the poor, hardup company that last year we were called upon to aid by a loan of $80 million, plus a loan to build the northern Ontario section.
Now, what about the other gentleman, Mr. Charles S. Coates? I am not going into detail concerning Mr. R. J. Wallace, because he was only small fry. He has options to buy only 5,000 shares, which he has not yet exercised. Mr. Charles S. Coates, however, has been executive vice president and general manager of the company since August, 1954. The same prospectus tells us a little about him prior to that time. He was senior vice president of Tennessee Gas Transmission Company, with which he had been associated since the inception of that company in 1953, during which time he acted as general superintendent of construction, and he has specialized in pipe line engineering, construction and operation. Last year while we were debating matters in the house, Mr. Coates was drawing a salary of $45,000 a year. He is under contract now at $45,000 a year for the first three years of his employment and $50,000 a year for the remaining two years, and the possibility of being continued is included in his contract. But if he is not continued he does not get a pension the way Mr. Tanner does; he has to get by on $45,000 for three years and $50,000 for two years.
These two gentlemen, Mr. Nathan Tanner, a former Social Credit minister in Alberta, and Mr. Charles Coates, formerly of Texas and connected with the Tennessee Gas Transmission Company, held in their pockets last year
Trans-Canada Pipe Lines during the whole of this debate these options to purchase these shares which they have now exercised, and out of which they have done what the minister said could not be done, that is made a killing which was made possible by the financial support made available to them by this government forcing a bill through parliament.
I believe hon. members are aware of the fact, Mr. Speaker, that this matter has been the subject of considerable editorial opinion since it came to light as a result of the Canadian press story of a week ago. I have been interested in reading the editorials, a number of which I have on my desk, but I shall only refer to them. Without exception, any editorial I have seen dealing with this matter expresses the view that this is wrong and that when the public incurs the risk it is not right for private individuals to reap the gain. I noticed that the first newspapers that began to take that view were, I admit, papers not friendly to the government, such as the Ottawa Journal, the Toronto Telegram and the Toronto Globe and Mail.
However, Mr. Speaker, I hasten to emphasize that these are not socialist newspapers. They are newspapers that support private enterprise, yet even they cannot take this idea of the public putting up the money, the public taking the risk, and private individuals reaping huge gains such as Messrs. Tanner and Coates have reaped out of this, all of which was possible only because of what was done by the government and what was kept secret from us during the debate last year.
I hasten to add, Mr. Speaker, that on Saturday of last week another newspaper editorialized on this matter, and this time it is not a newspaper friendly to the Conservative party but rather a newspaper that has a reputation of being friendly to the Liberal party. I refer to the Toronto Daily Star, than which there is no better supporter of the Liberal party unless it be a certain newspaper in my own city. Even there, the Liberals are coming in for a bit of a pasting these days.
This is the headline on the editorial in the Toronto Daily Star: "Public Took Risk- Others Take Profit". Let me read a sentence or two:
Parliament was shamed and abused last year. so that the Trans-Canada pipe line bill could be passed by June 7, the government's excuse being that only thus could the prairie section of the line be completed in 1956. Well, the prairie leg isn't finished yet, but that hasn't depressed the long-awaited stock and bond financing of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited. This has just got under way, and in a manner to warm any speculator's heart! The stock is at a premium and reports that officers of the company had already turned handsome speculative profits were discussed in parliament this week.

Trans-Canada Pipe Lines
The Toronto Daily Star goes on to suggest that, as it contended last year and as it contends now, this is the sort of venture that calls for public ownership. The Star ends its editorial with this sentence:
Federal governments in future will, we anticipate, be haunted by demands that the state take over ownership of the line so that the public may get the fullest benefits from it.
Last year we put up the hardest fight we could against what we believed at that time was a most iniquitous proposition. It now turns out it was more iniquitous than we realized at the time. It now turns out that included within the provisions to which we were asked to agree when we were asked to pass the bill which gave the government the right to make an agreement, included within those provisions was the fact of these options that these gentlemen held, the number and the terms of which were not made known to us but on the basis of which they could make the very killing which the Minister of Trade and Commerce said last year could not be made.
I asked in my motion that this matter might be debated by the house and that we might give consideration to the way in which parliament and the country had been misled. I contend my statement in that motion is well put. We were not informed as to the extent to which there would be private gain as a result of the financial support made available to Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited from the public treasury.
I believe the people of this country will be shocked to learn the facts that will be brought out during this debate today. They were shocked last week when they learned that these two gentlemen were making this huge profit. When they now learn that they had in their pockets all through that debate, unbeknown to us and to the public of Canada but with the approval of the government, the pieces of paper that would make possible this profit, the sense of t shock will be such that there will be a rising protest against this government and I predict that there will be proper demands in the next few days as to what this government should do, not just what the Minister of Trade and Commerce should do but what the whole government should do.
I suggest, Mr. Speaker, that time has come to clear the air with respect to this whole deal; the time has come to make it clear that it is still possible for this line to be taken over in the name of the people of Canada and operated under public ownership so that, as newspapers, private enterprise supporters though they are, are saying, the public which took all the risk may get whatever gain there is from this Trans-Canada Pipe Lines project.


Mr. Speaker, I commence by saying that I had no information in advance of this motion being made today and anything that I may say will be entirely on the basis of the knowledge that I have of this proposition and the degree to which parliament has been deluded and deceived, either intentionally or unintentionally, by this government and in particular when this matter was before the house.
Now, sir, as far as this proposition is concerned, as it is now revealed, it indicates clearly why there was such haste last summer to get this legislation through the house, why the rules of parliament were trampled on and why members of this house were denied an opportunity of a detailed examination in committee of the reasons for the agreement, and also for an examination of the foundations on which this legislation was built.
I am going to start by reading some of the questions asked the other day by the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra (Mr. Green) which indicate that the minister, when he replied to these questions, was not as careful with the truth as might be expected from one possessed of even an ordinary memory.
I quote from page 1417 of Hansard:


I
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Will the minister explain to the house the transaction under which the president and the vice president and general manager of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited appear to have had the opportunity to make a very big profit on large blocks of shares of the company?


Mr. Speaker, I have no knowledge
of the transaction.
These are his first words. On the basis of the minister's explanatory alibi today, that statement still remains, "I have no knowledge of the transaction". Then, the minister goes on:
It is purely a transaction within a private company.
It was not a transaction within a private company; it was a transaction that was made when this company, with the assistance of the Minister of Trade and Commerce and the Prime Minister and the other members of the Liberal party, was trampling on the rights of parliament. They had that knowledge at that time. It was not an arrangement in a private company; it was an arrangement which ought to have been made known to parliament; for to conceal it and keep it from parliament was to obtain from parliament under false pretences the passage of this bill. Let me go on with the quotation:
I am aware that it Is the custom of companies that are owned largely by banking groups to induce

top management to take a personal stake in the enterprise and share in the good fortunes or bad fortunes of the company.
Were these men taking any risk? Was Tanner taking any risk to promise to exercise an option? Was Coates taking any risk? The only risk they were taking was that parliament might not pass the bill. They took no risk, none at all. They simply entered into an arrangement whereby at an assignable time in the future until 1959 they might exercise the option. In other words, there was no risk. They undertook, or at least had the right, to exercise an option after it was determined whether or not the company would be a success in so far as being able to finance is concerned.
The minister went on to say:
The offering was to acquire stock for $8 per share, which is the price paid for stock in the early formation of the group that undertook to build the pipe line, and if the stock proves to be worth more than $8 per share over the years there will be a profit.
I ask the minister when he replies to say what risk did these buccaneers take?


Is my hon. friend referring to Mr. Tanner and Mr. Coates at the moment?


The minister may reply.


Suppose you reply.


A buccaneer is one who reaps a piratical profit without any danger or fear to himself. It is in that sense that I use the expression. The minister said:
The offering was to acquire stock for $8 per share.
They were simply in the position where they were the pampered few, where, if the company became a success in so far as the ability to sell shares was concerned, then they would step in and reap the benefit; but if it turned out badly these men were in the shadows. Having undertaken nothing, having accepted no personal responsibility, having simply remained in the background, if the company succeeds, if the shares had a saleable value and if the saleable value was more than $8, then these gentlemen came in and reaped the benefit.


If they sell.


On the other hand, if failure takes place, then there is no responsibility on them to lose $1.
The minister goes on to say:
The offering was to acquire stock for $8 per share, which is the price paid for stock in the early formation of the group that undertook to build the pipe line, and if the stock proves to be worth more than $8 per share over the years there will be a profit.
Trans-Canada Pipe Lines
Risk? This was an insured risk. If the price was below $8, in the event that the company got under way, these men did not have to exercise their option. They had the right to exercise it for two more years; they had the right to exercise it over such a length of time that it would then be realized by the time they exercised it that a profit would be showing.
I continue with the minister's quotation:
If the enterprise is as unsuccessful as my hon. friend predicted in the early debates, it may result in a loss to the man who exercised the option.
I say that was begging the question. If they had exercised their option before the matter came before parliament, if they had then undertaken to pay $8 and had assigned and allocated to them these shares, then they would have been subject to the uncertainties of investment, but nothing of the sort took place.
The minister ended his reply in this way:
In any case these men now have a share in the enterprise.
By every word uttered by the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) on February 19 in answer to the hon. member for Van-couver-Quadra (Mr. Green) he left the impression that what these men had done was to secure a reward on the basis of risk.
We come now to the answer given to the question of the hon. member for Nanaimo (Mr. Cameron) who asked, as reported at page 1418 of Hansard of February 19:
Was the government aware that these gentlemen had options on blocks of stock at the time the government undertook the agreements to help to finance the company?
The minister replied:
No, Mr. Speaker, I was not aware of it and I doubt if the options were outstanding at that time.
Mr. Speaker, those are definite words. Today the minister says, "Well, I apologize because I forgot". That apology in no way eradicates the falsity of the answer that was given last week. We are not going to relive the days of the pipe line debate at this time: That has been concluded as far as parliament is concerned. But certainly the fact that these men without risk were able to make themselves fabulous profits under an agreement which must have been in the possession of the minister when he was before parliament last May and June demands more than a statement to the effect that the minister made a mistake the other day. Indeed, it demands an apology to parliament on his part and also on the part of the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent), who must have known all of these facts. For if these facts had been before parliament last June all of the steamroller tactics which were used on that

Trans-Canada Pipe Lines
occasion could not have forced this legislation through parliament. Now we begin to realize why discussion was abolished and why closure was applied in a manner that denied every principle of parliamentary government. Now we begin to realize why it was that this government chose by its overwhelming majority to trample on the rights of parliament-I was going to say to reduce parliament to a shallow sham and a delusion-and all this was done for the purpose of forcing a bill before parliament without full discussion. Had there been full discussion of these matters and had a full disclosure been made to the house and to the Canadian people, this government would not have dared to pursue its course of forcibly placing this legislation before parliament and then depriving parliament of full discussion.
I agree with the content of this motion, for in effect we now find on February 25, 1957 facts which had they been generally known in May and June of last year would not have permitted this government to force legislation through the house. Now we understand the reason for the haste, the concealment of facts and the drawing of the curtains of secrecy over a transaction that could not have borne the light of day. Sir, I shall say no more than this: This is but another example of the manner in which parliament has been treated in the last few years and particularly since 1953. It has been denied information and refused answers to questions that the people of Canada have a right to know. In this case, however, the result of the concealment of information has been that a gigantic trick has been played on parliament and these three gentlemen stand to benefit. And who else? One wonders.
It is small wonder that last year when this matter was before parliament and a discussion was taking place regarding some of the gentlemen who were taking a leading part in the incorporation of the Trans-Canada Pipe Line Company Limited the motives of these gentlemen were seriously questioned. I refer in particular to Mr. Clint Murchison who was described as a man who possesses the popular Texas ambition of buying the rest of the United States, and of whom it was said that his companies are as varied as a pirate's treasure and that he is able to put one dollar by one dollar and make $11 million. Messrs. Tanner and Coates did not do that but they made a fairly good attempt.
They risked nothing but their signatures under the option agreement and they reaped fabulous profits. They did this under an agreement that was concealed from parliament up until recent days and following the
tMr. Diefenbaker.l
passage of the bill. Surely the Prime Minister, who last summer maintained a silence that will never be forgotten when this matter was before the house, will now say something in this regard. Throughout the course of the pipe line debate the Prime Minister failed in the face of strenuous argument from the opposition to rise and place before the house and the country the true facts. Some of those facts have now been revealed; will there be others in the future? I say that what has happened in connection with this transaction is bound to raise in the minds of even the least suspicious a suspicion that to too great an extent today ministers of the crown deign to give to parliament only whatever information will not be detrimental to the government. That is not parliament and that is not democracy. And always when they do that the ministers of the crown are reinforced by the support of those who follow them regardless of the consequences to parliament.
Sir, no apology on the part of the minister today can eradicate from the record the fact that these facts have been concealed and that the concealment took place last June in the face of repeated requests from the opposition to have the full facts disclosed. The government had in its possession this information which it knew it dared not produce if the bill was to pass, and it steadfastly concealed the information. For whose benefit was this done? That is a question that will only be answered in the days ahead.


Mr. Speaker, as it was in answer to my question of last Tuesday that the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) gave the answer for which he has apologized today, I think it is only right that I should have some observations to make on this particular incident. I should say at the outset that I accept the statement of the minister that he had forgotten this particular detail of the Trans-Canada pipe line arrangement. I am obliged to accept this statement, Mr. Speaker, and I do so no matter with what strain on my powers of credulity. I am prepared to accept the minister's statement that he had completely forgotten a document which he himself signed ten months ago and which from internal evidence of that document was one which was drafted at his behest, because I doubt whether the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) will ask us to believe that Messrs. Tanner and Coates and their colleagues requested the government to have an agreement drawn up whereby Messrs, Tanner, Coates, et al, when they realized their options, would place their shares in escrow.

I think there is unmistakable internal evidence that this particular agreement was drafted at the behest of the government, and I suggest that in all probability it was drafted at the behest of the particular minister of the crown who took the Trans-Canada Pipe Line bill so decisively under his wing last year.
When I accept this apology of the minister, when I accept his statement that he had forgotten this minor item in the various agreements signed in connection with a measure which was his particular interest less than ten months ago, I am almost obliged to do something else and to accept the tragic fact the right hon. Minister of Trade and Commerce is now past his ability to be of service to the Canadian people.
I noted just now when my colleague, the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (M