I have the honour to inform the house that I have received a message from His Excellency the Governor General, signed by his own hand, reading as follows:
Government House,
Ottawa.
4th August, 1958.
Members of the House of Commons:
I have received with great pleasure the address that you have voted in reply to my speech at the opening of parliament. I thank you very sincerely.
Vincent Massey


Eighth report of standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines.-Mr. Fraser.
On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of Trade and Commerce if he could tell the house whether or not the following quotation from an article published in the Ottawa Journal of August 4, written by Mr. James McCook, is without foundation. The article-


Order. Yesterday I disapproved of a similar question. If the hon. member has a further question than that which he has asked it may be in order, but simply to ask a minister to verify the correctness of a quotation from a newspaper is not in order at this stage of the proceedings.


I thank you for your very valuable and helpful correction, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister say whether or not his attention has been drawn to an article in the Ottawa Journal of August 4, which reads as follows:
Mr. Churchill told the Journal outside the house that he had taken only these steps when informed of the article published in Toronto:
1. Asked for the number of copies of the confidential report issued and the distribution list.
57071-3-200i
2. Asked for the names of those who prepared the report.


Question.


Order. The hon. member has not modified his question. He has simply asked the minister whether his attention has been drawn to the article-


May I ask the
minister if his attention has been drawn to this article-


That is the same thing.


Mr. Speaker, this whole issue was dealt with in a debate on Monday and Tuesday of this week, and the hon. member for Essex East has no right whatever to raise it again on the orders of the day. This period is reserved for asking urgent questions. This is nothing of that kind; it is simply an attempt to follow up the debate concluded two days ago.


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, it is true that the general subject matter was discussed, but this is a report in a newspaper which appeared on the second day, and I am now asking the minister if his attention has been directed to this report, and I am also asking whether or not the investigation which was to be made, according to that report, has been made by him.


Order.


The hon. member has not addressed himself to the point of order. He has modified his question, but as he asked it the second time I would consider it not to be an appropriate question. I do not say the hon. gentleman does not have the right to direct a question based on the report, but both the questions he asked were, in my opinion, not questions that should have been asked. Had the hon. gentleman asked whether a certain investigation referred to in the report had been carried out I would have considered that a proper question.


Then I ask the minister whether the investigation referred to in the report has been carried out and whether he would advise the house of the result of his investigation to date?

Inquiries of the Ministry


I do not consider that that constitutes other than a routine inquiry I have made of my officials with regard to several confidential reports.


Would the minister say what the result of that inquiry has been?


I received the information for which I asked.


Could the minister tell us what are the other confidential reports that he is investigating?


I do not think I am obliged to inform the hon. member with regard to confidential reports from officials of the department which pass month by month over my desk.


May I ask the
minister if with regard to another portion of the interview he is in a position to advise the house of further steps the government is taking with regard to this important matter, as indicated by him in the interview as the government's intention to pursue?


If the matter is to be pursued in this way I will have to consider it in the light of the objection taken by the Minister of Public Works, namely that this whole matter was the subject of a debate and an amendment which have been dealt with by the house, and unless there is something completely novel which was not included during the course of that debate I feel hon. members should not pursue the matter in the way they are now doing.


I have a question which is based on a newspaper report which appeared in yesterday's Toronto Star and therefore, as Your Honour has suggested, it is subsequent to the debate. I am wondering whether the attention of the Minister of Trade and Commerce or of the Prime Minister has been drawn to what are stated to be further excerpts from "The Canadian Economic Outlook, 1958", as reported in the Toronto Star yesterday.


Order.


Has either minister-


Order. While the newspaper report may be subsequent to the debate the subject matter is precisely the same, and I think what I said with respect to the question of the hon. member for Essex East relates to what the hon. member for Assiniboia has said. I would ask hon. members not to pursue this line of questioning unless they can convince me it is proper to reopen a matter which

has been dealt with by the house. I ask hon. members if they wish to pursue the matter to address themselves to the point of order before asking any more questions.


With great respect, Mr. Speaker, when we questioned the Minister of Trade and Commerce about the original report by Mark Harrison the minister informed this house that there was not sufficient indication in the press report to inform the minister as to the document from which it might have been taken. Since this is a different press report, since it has been published in the newspaper, following the appearance of the other extracts, since it includes what it alleges are other and more substantial paragraphs from the report, I submit it is in order to ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce whether his attention has been drawn to this press report and whether or not the published excerpts purporting to be taken from a departmental report are sufficient to indicate to him that they are taken from "The Canadian Economic Outlook, 1958"; and I would direct that question to the minister.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. There was a debate in the house on Monday and Tuesday concerning a hypothetical report, shall I say.


Closure.


This subject was debated from top to bottom, inside and outside, and the whole field was canvassed at that time.


Not at all.


Now my hon. friends across the way are attempting to come back and raise the same debate again, and furthermore they are seeking to conduct a cross-examination. Questions on orders of the day were never designed for cross-examination.


Cry baby.


I respectfully submit that the question the hon. member for Assiniboia is now attempting to ask is not in order.


Mr. Speaker, on the point of order, the implication of the position taken by my hon. friend is that instalment after instalment purporting to come from this confidential report of the Department of Trade and Commerce could appear in the Toronto Star, to the point where we could read the whole report, yet we would be precluded from asking questions here to ascertain its accuracy or otherwise. Surely it is important, because of the subject matter of the report, that the accuracy of excerpts be established or denied. That is all we want to find out.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I may add another word on the point of order raised by the Minister of Public Works. As I understand the rule directed against raising a debate that was concluded, it is clear that hon. members cannot raise in a new debate something on which the house has taken a decision in a former debate. That is a very sensible ruling which we all agree should be maintained. But I would submit that is quite a different thing from raising a question on the orders of the day merely asking the Minister of Trade and Commerce a question about a press report which appeared subsequent to the date of the debate and which, as far as I have been able to ascertain, is completely new. I believe this question is in order, and the government would be doing itself credit if it answered the question forthwith instead of having hon. members on the government side of the house rising on points of order.


Order.


As I understand the question which the hon. member for Assiniboia has asked it is whether or not a reported extract appearing in the Star on a date subsequent to the debate is true, or whether or not the extract as contained in the paper is a true copy of the document that was under consideration in that debate.
That question offends in two respects. It offends in the respect that it is simply asking the minister to verify a newspaper statement. That is all the question is asking. It is also reopening a matter which was discussed for two days in this house at very considerable length and in very considerable detail. This is not the time to engage in debate. A proper search for information as to what a minister has or has not done is in order, but these questions are not of that kind, and I rule them out of order.


May I just make one comment on what you said, Mr. Speaker?


No.


What are you so frightened about?


I am simply pointing out to Your Honour, for whom I and all members of the house have the greatest respect, the implications of Your Honour's observations. The implications are so far-reaching that I wonder whether, in the face of the great interest in this matter on this side of the house, Your Honour would not want to consider the desirability of postponing possibly until tomorrow or another day the full implications of the ruling you have made; because it would mean, as my leader has
Inquiries of the Ministry said, that we on this side of the house could not ask of the treasury benches questions relating to a matter of such importance. We would be precluded from pursuing a line of questioning regarding a matter of such importance, and I would think that would raise a question involving fundamental rights of members of this house. I wonder whether Your Honour would not think in the circumstances that it would be desirable to act on the suggestion I have made.


May I point out that Your Honour has already given a ruling on this question, and now the hon. member for Essex East is simply endeavouring to get into a position where he and his colleagues can go on asking questions of this kind day after day. I submit that in the first place he has no right to question Your Honour's ruling.


I am sure the hon. member for Essex East is prepared to accept the ruling I have made, as he has indicated. As hon. members know, I have no desire to curtail in any way the right of members of the house to obtain information from the ministry. It will be my objective to maintain and enforce that right. We have disposed of the particular questions. I am not prejudging any issues that may arise again. In view of the feeling of the members of the opposition I shall look over the questions again and also confirm my own view about these particular questions. They are disposed of, and I hope hon. members will accept that as final.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Labour. Is the minister in a position to indicate to the house the progress of negotiations between the Canadian Pacific Railway and the three unions on the west coast as a result of the British Columbia Coast Steamship Service Act which we passed a few days ago?


The only report I have, Mr. Speaker, is that a mediator is on the scene endeavouring to negotiate between the two parties, but no progress report has been submitted to me as yet.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to

Inquiries of the Ministry direct a question to the Prime Minister. I am sorry I did not send him a previous notice, but he can take this as notice. Will the Prime Minister inform the house when he intends to implement his electoral promise to reform the Senate?


Mr. Speaker, I must say I am glad to see the interest of the hon. gentleman in this subject. I realize that he has more than a personal interest in the reformation of that body.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, inspired by feelings of the purest humanitarianism, may I ask the Prime Minister will he be in a position shortly to announce the appointment of parliamentary assistants?


I think I have answered that question on a number of occasions, and in the case of my hon. friend I do not believe he is one of those who is interested.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture, of which I have given notice. According to a press dispatch the Niagara peninsula cherry growers have asked the provincial and federal governments to buy surplus cherries. They blame the surplus on the large quantity of imports from the United States. What action does the federal government intend to take in this matter, and why was there not a support price on cherries?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. gentleman for sendirfg me notice of this question. No request has been received from the Niagara peninsula cherry growers or any other organization for assistance to cherry producers under the Agricultural Stabilization Act.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question I should like to direct to the Minister of Agriculture. Would the minister care to
[Mr. Deschatelets.l
comment on the reported outbreak of a new disease in Ontario swine? Can the minister say whether the disease has been diagnosed, to what extent it is prevalent, and what steps are being taken to control it?


I thank the hon. member for notice of this question, particularly as it is of a technical nature. The swine disease to which the question refers was first reported in the fall of 1957. Since then both Department of Agriculture animal pathology laboratories and the Ontario Veterinary College have been engaged in research on it. It is a disease of young pigs, generally under 10 weeks of age. It resembles transmissible gastroenteritis of swine, but because of certain variations in the clinical symptoms it has been called vomiting and wasting disease of suckling pigs.
Research to date has not been successful in isolating the specific organism causing the disease. Study of the disease is being continued actively by the department and the veterinary college, both in the laboratories and in field investigation of reported outbreaks.
While the disease is serious and can result in a fairly high mortality in young pigs, investigations by veterinary staffs do not indicate that it has reached proportions which would have serious economic effects on the swine industry. Up to the present the condition appears to be confined to Ontario. When the disease has occurred in a herd, the surviving piglets and the nursing sows appear to develop immunity. There is no specific treatment known. Antibiotics seem to have little effect.


Has the government given consideration to the payment of compensation when there have been losses, or is it giving consideration to such payment in the event of an extension of the outbreak?


No consideration has been given yet to that phase of the matter because, as I have said, the disease is not yet really widespread, and not sufficient is known about it to be able to come to any definite conclusions with regard to it.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture, who is having quite a run of questions at the present time. Would the minister please advise if he is yet in a position to table a copy of the agreement

respecting the South Saskatchewan dam, which was signed on July 25?


That agreement was tabled several days ago. I do not know the exact date, but it was several days ago. It was the day after the hon. gentleman asked the same question last week.


With regard to the tabling of the agreement on the South Saskatchewan dam, may I say this. If the hon. member will look at Votes and Proceedings for Friday, August 1, at page 343 he will note therein under "Returns and Reports Deposited with the Clerk of the House" that the first is this agreement with Saskatchewan on the South Saskatchewan dam.


On the orders of the day:
May I
ask the Minister of Justice if he intends to carry through at this session his bill pertaining to the humane slaughtering of animals?


Mr. Speaker, we are having a look at the legislative program to see what the position is in that regard.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, during this session I have asked the Prime Minister and the Minister of Trade and Commerce on a number of occasions when the government would be in a position to make an announcement on deficiency payments. On July 31 the Prime Minister indicated that an announcement would be made at an early date. I am wondering whether the Prime Minister can say when the government will reach a final decision on the very important question of deficiency payments on western grain.


Mr. Speaker, I can add nothing to what has already been said. The whole question of an agricultural program to meet the situation of agriculture in the western provinces as well as in other parts of Canada is still under full advisement.
I am hopeful, as I said recently on the occasion to which the hon. gentleman has made
Inquiries of the Ministry reference, that an announcement can be made and will be made before the end of this session. Further than that I do not want to go at this time.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of Trade and Commerce whether he is aware of the fact that the House of Representatives in Washington has passed a bill excluding Canada from the seed grain market in the United States, a market in which Canada sells several million bushels per year. If the minister's attention has been drawn to this measure, is he in a position to say what representations are being made by the government in the matter?


Mr. Speaker, I am having a report from my officials with regard to that matter. I am not at this moment prepared to make any further statement.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the day before yesterday I directed a question to the Minister of Finance with respect to prevailing rate employees and whether or not he could arrange that there would be no deduction from their wages for absence when they were sent home owing to conditions of heat and humidity. The minister's answer was that he thought his answer on the previous occasion covered the matter. I wonder whether he has anything further to add.
Hon. Donald M. Fleming (Minister of
Finance): Mr. Speaker, on reviewing the answer I gave to the house on an earlier occasion I think the answer covered the question completely, but this aspect of the earnings of the employees was not included in the question. I am glad to deal with it now.
The conditions of employment of prevailing rate staffs, unlike those of classified civil servants, are determined by reference to the practice of good private employers. The treasury board and its advisory committee on prevailing rate staffs have found no evidence that good private employers release the equivalent of the prevailing rate employees of the public service from duty before normal closing hours on account of conditions of heat

Canadian National Railways or humidity. The prevailing rate employees' general regulations, which are founded on the general principles stated above, consequently make no provision for leave with pay for prevailing rate staffs in the public service of Canada when conditions of excessive heat or humidity lead the civil service commission to authorize the release of classified civil servants.
It may be observed that a majority of the prevailing rate employees of the public service, unlike classified civil servants, perform their duties out of doors, where the effects of heat and humidity are not ordinarily as oppressive as in the case of clerical staffs working in confined areas.


I have a supplementary question. Does the minister not think it would be wise, in view of the fact that there are apparently only a relatively small number of these people involved, to show the lead to private industry and treat prevailing rate employees in the same way that permanently appointed civil servants are treated?


the second reading of Bill No. C-47, to authorize the provision of moneys to meet certain capital expenditures of the Canadian National Railways system during the calendar year 1958, and to authorize the guarantee by Her Majesty of certain securities to be issued by the Canadian National Railway Company.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to say a few words in connection with this matter. I hope that sufficient funds are supplied so that one class of employees of the C.N.R.- and I refer to the employees of Canadian National Telegraphs in many Newfoundland communities-may receive better salaries.


Speak up.


It is quite notorious that many of these operators who must put in a week of 48 hours receive very small salaries. There are many instances of extremely low salaries which may be quoted.


We cannot hear.


Order. Before the hon.
member goes too far may I say that I think perhaps we should try to confine our remarks to the scope of this bill. We are on second reading, which involves the principle of the

bill. It is a bill to provide moneys to meet certain, capital expenditures of the Canadian National Railways system. I am not disposed to be too strict as to what are capital expenditures, but I do not think the bill opens up a free ranging debate on the operation of the Canadian National Railways system. If any hon. member has a contrary view I shall be glad to hear him, but as presently advised it seems to me that the question before the house is whether it is desirable to provide the Canadian National Railways with funds for precise capital expenditures which are to be authorized and are set out in the bill.


I will leave all the detailed arguments until another time, Mr. Speaker, but I should like to mention this-


May I say to the hon. member that there will be an opportunity to discuss the details of the administration of the C.N.R. when the estimates are before the house for consideration.


On that point, Mr. Speaker, may I say this. Is it not true that there is not an opportunity on the estimates to discuss the C.N.R.? It being a crown company, I think it has always been understood in this house that it could not be debated in the committee of supply. I think it was for that reason that my friend the hon. member for Grand Falls-White Bay-Labrador desired to make a few observations about certain capital improvements which he hoped could be made by virtue of the provision to be made in this measure.


I perhaps should not say there is an opportunity on the estimates because I am not sure of that position. Perhaps some hon. members can help me on that matter. I have no desire to limit the hon. member in dealing with capital improvements for which this money is provided or which he thinks should be covered by this provision. I just did not want him to get into a discussion of conditions of employment and that sort of thing at this time.


I hope to speak in this debate, Mr. Speaker,-


The hon. member for
Grand Falls-White Bay-Labrador has the floor.


I think the hon. member for Port Arthur is speaking to the point of order.


Yes, Mr. Speaker. That is
exactly what I want to get into from this point of view, namely that the capital program of the Canadian National Railways for this year includes a very large expenditure.

That is going to reduce employment in certain centres in certain areas. Because that capital program is involved in that way I feel this is an opportune time to bring up the whole question of the labour policies and the labour relations of the Canadian National Railways, in the very broad view. That is what I have prepared for, and I would certainly think it is quite in order since most of the ideas I have come from my attendance in the special committee dealing with the annual report. It is out of that knowledge that I wish to speak on this bill before us. If one does not have an opportunity at this time to go into the matter I cannot see when one can touch that subject within the framework of the House of Commons.


I shall deal with the hon. member's problem when it arises, but in the meantime I feel that this debate should be directed toward the lines of capital enterprise of the Canadian National Railways.


Mr. Speaker, I rise only to make a suggestion. While some of the remarks that the two hon. members indicated they had intended to make at this stage may be out of order in the debate on the motion for second reading of the bill, on which after all hon. members are confined to the principle of the bill, it may be that their points relate to the clauses in the bill and should be raised at the committee stage. I do not know whether or not they do so; we shall not know that until we know more about their remarks. However, it occurs to me that perhaps that may be the way in which the problems that have been raised might be met.


As much as possible, Mr. Speaker, I shall confine my remarks so they will come within the minister's suggestion and your ruling. I do not think the amount of money paid to these Canadian National employees is consistent with the amount of money voted for the operation of this telegraph system. I was about to say that salaries as low as $87.50 per month are not unusual.
I do not need to belabour the point that such salaries are low because they speak for themselves. It has been customary in the past, where possible, to combine the position of postmaster and Canadian National telegraph operator, which sometimes enables better salaries to be paid as a result of combined operations. I mentioned this before in connection with the post office estimates. I hope that system can be reinstituted.
I should like to mention also the need for a new steamer for the Labrador service. I hope sufficient money will be provided so consideration can be given to the construction of a new steamer with refrigeration to 57071-3-201
Canadian National Railways replace the S. S. Kyle. The Kyle has supplied excellent service for many years, but now she is a very old ship and needs replacing by a ship with more modern facilities. There should be, as I have said, an extension of the Canadian National steamship service to Labrador and a continuation of the service each year until the month of November.
Another suggestion I should like to make is concerned with the provision of better railway stations at many places in Newfoundland. There are quite a few places where the railway stations are not at all the type of building which should be owned and operated by an institution like Canadian National Railways. An example of such a railway station is the one at Gander, which is the real gateway to Canada. Today that railway station is not at all in keeping with what I might call, if I were to make a pun, its station. I would suggest that new stations should be provided at Gander and other places where antiquated buildings are made to serve.
While I am dealing with the railway station at Gander, I should like to point out that the railway no longer delivers express parcels from this station because the town has been moved away from the station. When Gander airport was extended and a new townsite built, the town was moved several miles away while the railway station remained where it was, right at the edge of the airport. The railway will no longer deliver express parcels to the town, and this is the cause of great annoyance and inconvenience to the people.
I should like to suggest, too, that the Canadian National steamers on the Labrador coast and along the northern part of Newfoundland should add to their ports of call instead of bypassing so many of the smaller settlements. I hope Canadian National will increase the number of ports at which their steamers call and bring their very valuable service to these smaller centres.
In conclusion I should like to say a word of appreciation of the very fine services, which over many years now have become traditional, performed by the captains, officers and crews of the Canadian National coastal steamers operating along the Newfoundland and Labrador coasts.


The
president of Canadian National Railways, Mr. Donald Gordon, made a great impression upon most of the members of the special committee on railways and shipping. When I say "a great impression", that does not define it specifically. Certainly the impression he made on some of us was different from that which he made on others. However, he brought

Canadian National Railways home to all of us the many problems in connection with this largest single enterprise in the Canadian nation. The Canadian National Railways has been close to my interests for many years because I was brought up in a Canadian National Railways family and worked myself for the railway for a time.
Furthermore, the railway itself has always been of interest to my particular political party, the feeling being that as a government-owned enterprise it should be and could be a model for the country. Many of the things I hope to say in connection with this bill will indicate that we in this group approve of the principle of the bill, but feel there are certain aspects of the capital expenditures that open up problems and difficulties which we believe have very important application in labour matters and in the future financing of the railway.
In a speech which Mr. Gordon gave to the Canadian and Empire clubs in Toronto on April 1, 1958, he said, among other things:
The capital expenditure of one billion dollars since 1950 needs to be put into perspective, particularly so in light of the fact that it does not by any means complete the job. First we should recall that the period in question has been a high cost period and that a technological revolution has added larger units of machinery to our complement of equipment and has, as well, greatly enlarged the use of labour saving devices. Moreover, because of inflation, a depreciation based on original cost has fallen far short of meeting current replacement costs. That Is one of the major reasons for the increase in our fixed charges. However, you may be interested to know that our net capital expenditures expressed as a percentage of the total property investment of the system have during the past ten years averaged only 3.4 per cent annually.
He went on to state:
On dieselization from 1950 to the end of 1957, we had spent approximately $250 million on the locomotives and the necessary facilities. Our present estimate of the remaining cost to completely dieselize our operation is roughly $268 million, to be spent over the next four or five years.
No doubt the capital expenditures that will be approved by the passage of this bill will go for further dieselization, and quite a bit of these expenditures will go for the establishment of central traffic control on a considerable portion of the Canadian National Railways system. These two phases of expenditure have opened up very real labour problems. The Railway Age, a United States magazine that deals very generally with railway problems in North America, has pinpointed the importance of the industrial dispute that has raged between the brotherhood of locomotive firemen and enginemen and the Canadian Pacific Railway, as well as the other aspects of that dispute that have now

arisen with the Canadian National Railways and over which we are likely to have further labour troubles.
I suggest in this regard that the capital expenditures of the Canadian National Railways are putting quite a number of men out of work, and will put even more men out of work in the future. This will be a subject of discussion at divisional points across the country. There is no point in refusing to recognize that these things are going to happen. Perhaps they need to happen, but we are in a position where, very often, the labour organizations are not prepared for these particular situations in connection with the changes such as central traffic control or dieselization will bring.
Mr. Gordon had this to say in the committee. I had asked him whether it had been the thesis put to him by union men that in regard to the dieselization program which has resulted in great savings to the railway and great increase in productivity, in terms of labour, this particular point has never been recognized by the railways in labour negotiations. I asked him if he would care to comment on that statement. Mr. Gordon was very glad to comment, and he said:
We have in the course of our presentations before various conciliation boards dealt with that point again and again. I have no hesitation in saying that in regard to the improvement in our efficiency brought about by dieselization, labour has now received its share of that improvement.
Then he went on to say:
I feel that labour has received more than its share. In other words, the capital investment has not produced for us the result that we, as management, feel we are entitled to.
You can certainly see the sharp and definite position being taken by the president of the railroad. He went on to say:
This question of productivity is another one of those easy economic terms that is commented on loosely and which is very seldom understood.
Then, after elaborating on that, he went on to make this recommendation:
I do feel there is a great need for a thorough economic analysis of what is true productivity in terms of labour. If we could get that analysis, plus the other indexes we have, then we might be able to talk to labour on a much more sensible basis than we are able to do now.
And he went on to say that he is thinking in terms of a statistical study of the situation by a department such as the dominion bureau of statistics. I should like to take this opportunity to suggest to the government that now is the very time to go to work on such a study. As these capital expenditures unfold they are going to cause more and more dislocation and trouble. There is a labour problem developing, as I indicated yesterday, in connection with the

introduction of central traffic control, which means cutting down what might be called the tail end crews. In the record at page 96 of the committee proceedings-


Order. I have let the hon.
member deal with operational problems to some extent, but I think he ought to consider whether he is not doing more than illustrate his point by going deeply into operational problems. After all, this bill has nothing to do with that. It is to authorize the payment of money for capital purposes to the Canadian National Railways system, and there is no principle in it as far as I can see which would permit a general discussion of operational problems.


Mr. Speaker, the capital expenditures, as you will note in perusing the bill, are to an appreciable extent intended for equipment. Part of those expenditures will be accounted for by the dieselization program and provision for centralized traffic control. Surely the whole question of labour and labour relations could come under this.


Only incidentally and by way of illustration. I would not have objected to a discussion of the effect of the provision of certain types of capital equipment, but to make that the substance of comments on the bill seems to me to be getting off the track.


Perhaps I could get more on the track by referring to the financial problems which the Canadian National are facing at the present time. The railway had a deficit this year and it is going to have a deficit next year, or at least that is the prediction. This capital expenditure program is certainly extremely necessary but there are a number of suggestions one could make at this time which, if carried out, might put the railway in the position of not needing such a large capital investment program.
One of the points that was made by the president of the railway at the time of the sittings of the committee was that the railway does not seem to be getting its fair share in relation to the express and mail set-up. They carry the mail at the present time for the government, and that mail is competitive with their express service. One of the other points Mr. Gordon made in connection with unprofitable services was that there are a number of lines and sections in the Canadian National Railways system that need to be dropped, from the point of view of profit. One of the other points he made was that the raising of freight rates has to be done on a more realistic basis if the railway is to continue to meet its financial obligations. I am trying to suggest that all these points have validity in relation 57071-3-2014
Canadian National Railways to capital expenditure, and I want to take this opportunity of referring to them.


Is the hon. member referring to the proceedings before the committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines?


Yes.


Has that committee reported yet?


Yes.


I see a meeting is scheduled for Thursday, August 7 at 10.00 a.m.


This is a separate committee, on railways, air lines and shipping. One of the other problems Mr. Gordon raised in connection with capital expenditure is how far the C.N.R. should go in getting into the truck business and piggyback business. The hand of the Canadian National Railways has, to a certain extent, been forced by developments in the C.P.R., which has built up an extensive relationship with trucking interests.
This is one of the points with regard to which Mr. Gordon would not go into specific details, because he suggested that would be revealing his company's hand. I should like to hope that part of the capital expenditure involved under this bill will go for that purpose, namely to extend the piggyback service and tie in various truck lines with the service and give this diversification aspect of the C.N.R. more room to operate.
One of the other points made by the president of the C.N.R. in the committee which relates to this question of capital expenditure is the difficulty the two railway companies have had in working out pooling arrangements. Ever since 1933 an act of parliament has required the C.N.R. and the C.P.R. to work in a pool arrangement in certain sectors. We all know the sectors between Montreal and Toronto, and Ottawa and Toronto. Evidently discussions which have taken place between the railways themselves have been completely unsatisfactory.
Neither side will blame the other but this, it appears, is another place where direction by the government in relation to certain expenditures in connection with this bill might possibly lead to the C.N.R. being put on a better competitive basis as compared with the Canadian Pacific Railway. I certainly got the impression from the president that this is what he wanted, and he certainly feels that if his company were put in a better competitive position it would soon give the lie to all those Jeremiahs who are always going around pointing to this deficit and saying, "See what private enterprise can do and public enterprise cannot do".

Canadian National Railways
I see the hon. member for York North nodding his head and expressing approbation. I wish he had had the educational opportunity to hear Mr. Gordon, in which case I am sure he would have reached the conclusion that the C.N.R. could do much better if it was given the opportunity.
One great capital expenditure of the C.N.R. in the last few years has been directed toward the improvement of maintenance of the permanent way, equipment and yard operations. There are a number of big electronic yards being built. This is a form of automation which is going to cut down employment, yet on the other hand it will lead to a much smoother type of operation, and we think the C.N.R. should be commended on going ahead.
One of the significant things in connection with expenditure on maintenance of way equipment is that it has cut down employment along the sections to a tremendous extent. Specialized machines now lay the ties, put in the spikes and so on, and you no longer need the number of people along the lines you formerly needed. Of course, this improvement is not something that is instinctively or easily understood by the people who lose their jobs.
I hope to come back to this particular point in greater detail when we are on a specific part of the bill. I confess I feel a certain amount of guilt in attempting to conduct a general discussion of the operations of the Canadian National Railways in the light of what was said, and in view of the most munificent offer of the Minister of Finance, which at first struck me as being completely out of character for him. Perhaps I do not really appreciate the character of the Minister of Finance as yet.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to make one or two observations on the second reading of this bill. In the first place, I feel I would be failing in my duty to my constituents if I did not protest on their behalf the fact that some of this capital expenditure is going to purchase radio-telephone equipment to replace the ordinary wireless telegraph sets which have served our needs in Newfoundland so very well for many years. I know the feeling is very strong in my own riding about this decision, and personally I feel it is a most unwise move; because we all know from experience that this type of equipment breaks down frequently and in isolated communities such as ours it takes weeks before a maintenance man can go to the place to effect the necessary repairs. During the interval the messages are either not transmitted at all or else are transmitted on a clear channel so as to make it possible for them to be picked up by all the household radios within range.

The people in my riding consider this a backward step. It is an ill-advised move because it provides a service which in many respects, as far as privacy is concerned, is inferior to what we have enjoyed for the past 50 years. I know it is going to create a great deal of discontent and ill will among the people who have to put up with this type of service. Although it may save a few dollars it is putting the consideration of money before the consideration of the people.
I should also like to express the hope that some of this expenditure will be used to provide express offices in my riding. At the present time there are 250 communities in my riding and about 80 of these are ports of call for C.N.R. coastal steamships; but despite this number of ports of call only two communities have the services of an express office. There are many large communities which should be provided with this service, and it could be established at very little cost.
I wish also to bring to the attention of the house and the Minister of Transport the hope that this service will not be delayed much longer. It would be my hope that these expenditures will be utilized in such a way as to provide the maximum amount of winter employment. This could be done in my province and in my riding if the program were to be drawn up well in advance so the contracts for telegraph poles could be let soon enough for the people to know that this work would be available in the winter months when there are very few opportunities available to them to earn a livelihood.


Motion agreed to, bill read the second time and the house went into committee thereon, Mr. Rea in the chair.
Clause 1 agreed to.
On clause 2-Definitions.
Mr. Chairman, if it is in order I should like to know if any of the bond issue of the C.N.R. guaranteed by the federal government has been sold.


Mr. Chairman,
there was an issue of C.N.R. bonds last January to the aggregate of $300 million bearing the guarantee of the government of Canada.


May I ask what was the percentage of the yield, the premium or the interest coupon?


The coupon rate was 4 per cent. The issue price was $97 to yield 4.2 per cent to maturity.
Clause 2 agreed to.

On clause 3-Capital expenditures authorized.


Mr. Chairman, I wonder if the minister would be able to give us a breakdown of the amount of $146 million-odd representing road property by region and by district. I do not want to delay the procedure and the committee could proceed to another clause if the information is not readily available.


Mr. Chairman, I could give a breakdown of the figure, but I understand my hon. friend wished to have it broken down on a regional basis. I am not in a position to do that. I can give him a breakdown by nature of the properties affected, but not by regions.


Could the minister obtain that information later on? I could wait. He could do it even tomorrow. I should like to have a breakdown by region and district.


Would my hon. friend indicate if he is speaking of regions in terms of the operation of the Canadian National Railways?


Yes. I think there are four or five including the western region, central region, Atlantic region, etc.


I shall be glad to endeavour to obtain that information for my hon. friend from the Canadian National Railways and communicate it to him.


y dliU idU
to be witnesses to these hearings-

These were hearings in the United States:
-indicates, it seems to me, that the members of the committee also consider such an approach valuable.
In other words, this expert on automation and its effects is plumping for case study wherever you can possibly get it in order to determine the effects. I submit that as a result of expenditures by the C.N.R., when authorized by this bill, we will have this problem right across the country, but specifically at four divisional points in the constituency of Port Arthur. I would certainly like the minister to tell me something about it so we can get some idea of the effect of this expenditure upon our whole employment pattern and even on the social life

Canadian National Railways in those communities in the future. Referring to the Canadian scene this particular report concludes:
But we must all resist any temptation to postpone action "till all the facts are in." They never will be. They never can be, not even with all the giant computers working full time. Too many different things are constantly happening too fast and all together. We must investigate and study and plan; but we must also act, and act promptly, on the basis of the facts we have and the new facts as they come in.
I suggest that these changes and the new equipment which has been introduced and is being introduced by the Canadian National Railways by these expenditures here and the gross capital expenditures are creating just the kind of problems that are talked about here. I think it is of fundamental importance that we do some planning and more study of it now. I know the Minister of Finance who is shepherding this bill is not the person in the government who is most directly involved, but the whole problem will appeal to him as something that can be faced with a view to bringing these particular points before the government. If the government does not move within the next two or three years to handle the particular problems on that basis I think we are going to be faced with the danger of some of the dirtiest strikes and some of the greatest bitterness that this country has ever had.


I notice the item of $12,510,000 for branch line construction. Can the minister give the details of that?


There are five new branch lines which are contemplated under this item, aggregating $12,510,000. The first is Hillsport-Manitouwadge, $60,000; then Beattyville-Chibougamau-St. Felicien, $7,300,000; Bartibog-Heath Steele Mines, $200,000; Sipiwesk-Thompson, $4,500,000; Optic lake-Chisel lake, $2 million. That is a total of $14,060,000. Then there is one sum to be subtracted as a subsidy to Beattyville-Chibougamau-St. Felicien of $1,550,000, leaving a residue of $12,510,000.


Are there other branch line projects receiving consideration?


I have no doubt, Mr. Chairman, that there are other proposals that are constantly before the railway and under consideration. These are the ones that are embraced in the plan of capital expenditure for this year.


Clause agreed to.
Clauses 5 to 10 inclusive agreed to.
On clause 11-Auditors.
Mr. Chairman, I wonder whether the minister will tell us why he is

changing the auditors of the Canadian National Railways system?


Mr. Chairman, I can probably answer this, as it is on my recommendation that the auditors be changed, since the Canadian National Railways come under my jurisdiction. It is simply this. The firm of George A. Touche and Company have done the auditing for the past 23 years. This government is against monopoly; we are fundamentally opposed to it, and believe that in the interests of the free enterprise system various business firms should have opportunities from time to time to do work of this kind. It is for that reason that the auditors are being changed.


Mr. Chairman, I should like to ask the minister how you overcome monopoly by simply substituting one monopoly for another. Only one firm is involved in doing the auditing work of the C.N.R., and I just do not follow the logic of the minister's statement that he is doing away with monopoly when he changes the monopoly from one auditing firm to another.


It is very simple. One firm, the firm of George A. Touche and Company, has had this audit for the past 23 years. They have carried it out each year for the past 23 years, and we believe it is a good thing for first class auditing firms to have a chance 