Fourth report of standing committee on banking and commerce.-Mr. Cathers.
Mr. Speaker, by unanimous consent I move:
That Bill No. S-10, an act to amend the Loan Companies Act, and Bill No. S-ll, an act to amend the Trust Companies Act, be considered in committee of the whole later this day and that standing order 20(1) be suspended in relation thereto.
These are the bills which have just been reported back from the committee.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I beg leave to table, in English and in French, copies of a report on supply for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1958.
May I say, Mr. Speaker, that in relation to the resolution which stands on the order paper as No. 9, this report on supply will furnish the house with the complete information it requires as to the supply for the fiscal year that ended March 31 last, indicating the estimates and the way in which the amount appropriated was provided, whether by appropriation acts or governor general's warrants. It will be seen on examination that this report, I think, supplies the house with all the information that is required in its approach to resolution No. 9.
Copies of this report on supply will be available to hon. members forthwith at the distribution office, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Justice if he has any
comment to make on a statement reported to have been made by the warden of Collins Bay penitentiary in connection with the riot last Sunday to the effect that he, Mr. Richmond, the warden, denied that any prisoners had been segregated and said he had no idea where justice minister Fulton got the idea that 113 prisoners had been isolated as reported to the house yesterday morning by the Minister of Justice, when he said that 113 inmates were actually segregated as those being involved in the riot.


Yes, Mr. Speaker. The explanation is, I think, that when my remarks of yesterday were quoted to the warden it was implied to him that I had used the word "segregated" in the sense of prisoners who were segregated as punishment. In my statement yesterday I did say that 113 inmates were actually segregated as being involved in the riot. This however referred to the physical separation of those participating in the riot from the rest of the prison population, at the time of the riot. The figure of 113 is the number of inmates who were separated when the shock force entered the grounds of the institution and contained the rioting inmates in one corner of the walled area.
The article in this morning's Globe and Mail, however, implies that segregation was used in the sense of continuing segregation. This is not the case. The degree of participation of those involved, and who were segregated in the sense I have just mentioned, will be determined in the investigation that is expected to start tomorrow. Segregation as punishment will be carried out only after the investigation is completed and the guilt of those participating has been determined.


On the orders of the day:
Can the
Minister of Transport say what progress is being made by the board of transport commissioners in its program toward equalization of freight rates in general, and in particular the progress toward equalization of commodity rates? I ask this question because the royal commission made its report as long ago as 1951, and we are anxiously awaiting some further progress.
3756	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry


I wish to thank the hon. member for Assiniboia for giving me notice of his intention to ask this question. Since the beginning of 1958 the transport board has held hearings on certain commodity rate scales and further hearings are scheduled for this fall. The railways have been required by the board to file certain additional information, and the board is hopeful that substantial progress will be made in the equalization of commodity rates before the end of this year.


May I ask
a supplementary question. When that report is made, will there be other classifications of freight rates to be equalized under the authority of the order in council?


I shall speak to the chairman of the board of transport commissioners, Mr. Speaker, and get an exact report for the hon. member.


I wonder if the minister could say whether the hearings to which he refers will be held at various places across the country or whether they will be held in Ottawa.


I believe the hearings will be held, as usual, across the country, but again I shall speak to the chairman of the board of transport commissioners and get an exact answer for the hon. member tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of Labour if he can reply to the question I asked yesterday in his absence, and which had to do with whether or not the non-operating unions of the railways or the railways themselves had indicated any acceptance or rejection of the conciliation board report?


I have had no correspondence or any indication whatever, Mr. Speaker, from either party to the dispute.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to address a question to the minister responsible for the renaissance of official philatelic art in Canada, the Postmaster General. As the society of philatelic Americans is holding 

its sixty-fourth annual convention in Montreal on September 18, this being the first convention of this society to be held outside the United States, and in view of the minister's announced policy of philatelic rejuvenation in Canada and search for ideas and inspiration to this end, would the minister inform the house if representatives of his department will be attending this gathering of philatelists?


I want to thank the hon. member for giving me notice of his question. We are happy that recent developments and improvements in our Canadian postal service have caused this organization to come to Canada. I will be opening their meeting myself and will be in contact with them. In addition, one of my senior officials will be present throughout the meetings.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question which I should like to direct to the Minister of Labour. Could the minister indicate what action has been taken by the three unions on the west coast with respect to the suggestion of the Canadian Pacific that the dispute between its B.C. coast shipping service and the three unions be referred to arbitration?


read the article in the newspaper, Mr. Speaker, but I have received no reaction from the unions to that suggestion.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. I should like to know whether the government has decided to turn over to the St. Lawrence seaway authority control and operation of the Welland ship canal.


The Welland ship canal will come under the authority of the St. Lawrence seaway authority later this year.


I have a supplementary question. Will that apply to the lands owned by the federal government and held in connection with the canal?


I would think so, Mr. Speaker, but I will check with the officials concerned and let the hon. member know.


On the orders of the day:
In regard to the question asked by the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate in the House of Commons on August 13, in connection with the publication of the Parliamentary Guide, may I say that I was in touch with the publisher and was informed that the Parliamentary Guide is issued yearly and that the 1958 copy was issued in February, 1958. This copy does not contain the list of members elected in March, 1958. The 1959 issue of the guide is expected to be printed and issued in December, 1958.


AMENDMENTS TO EXTEND APPLICATION AND '	INCREASE AMOUNT
the third reading of Bill No. C-53, to amend the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.


The house resumed, from Monday, August 18, consideration in committee of the following resolution-Mr. Nowlan-Mr. Sevigny in the chair:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to establish a board of broadcast governors to regulate broadcasting in Canada; to provide that the expenditure of the board shall be paid out of money appropriated by parliament therefor and also to provide for the continuance of a corporation known as the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation for the purpose of operating a national broadcasting service in Canada; and to provide further for the payment, remuneration, salaries and fees of the officers and employees thereof.
Mr. Chairman, it was most pleasant to hear the introduction of this resolution by the minister, especially when he used that quotation from what I like to call the professor patron of the Conservative party in Canada, namely Professor Creighton. The group here welcome the legislation, and we are looking forward to the actual bill itself in order to see what its substance will be.
After referring a number of times to the bill as being extremely important, the Leader of the Opposition made the point that his party would like the bill to go to a select committee of the house before being moved 57071-3-238
Broadcasting
through its final stages, to have an examination made there. We are not convinced that that is the right point of view at this particular time. Broadcasting in all its aspects has been very well covered by parliamentary committees and by royal commissions.
We have had a very thorough outline set up for us in this royal commission. One of the key points is that the powers of the board of broadcast governors and the kind of regulation framework that is to be allowed them would need to be known before we really know whether committee work would be useful. Rather than having the bill referred to the committee at this time I think it might be much better to have the bill passed, the board of broadcast governors set up and the board given some opportunity to introduce the regulations that are going to come into effect, because I think the regulations are the key.
Speaking for those in this group, we have been concerned about the war of propaganda carried on for some years against the C.B.C. and for the private interests. I believe all members have received some of the latest proofs of this propaganda war in the form of communications from radio station CHWO at Oakville, Ontario, and the private broadcasters who are at their old game of maligning certain people. I notice here, for instance, a reference to the cabinet secretary, Mr. Bryce, which I can only describe as unfortunate.
This particular kind of propaganda on the part of private broadcasters seems to have been caused by the reactivation of the Canadian radio league or, as it is now known, the Canadian broadcasting league, which has already been sending out literature in connection with what they consider the future Canadian broadcasting set-up should be.
The conclusion I draw from the criticisms of the Oakville station is that it is wrong to have a lobby to protect the C.B.C. but it seems to be all right to have a lobby to protect the private stations. I often wonder whether many people realize how powerful a lobby the private stations have had in this Canada of ours. This is clearly illustrated when one thinks of the Sifton newspaper interests, the Thomson newspaper interests and the daily newspaper interests with all their ramifications. The complaints of the private broadcasters have been brought home very firmly for many years but what happened when the royal commission on broadcasting began to look into the matter? Those who have read any of the publications of Mr. Fowler, the head of that royal commission, will be perfectly aware that this

Broadcasting
man is not out to socialize tor the sake of socialism; he is not out to keep any national organization going at all. Those who have any doubt as to his devotion to free enterprise should look at what he has written in the past on the combines investigation legislation and its effect on companies.
This gentleman, however, undertook this chore and came up with a report. At the time of his appointment the members of this group vigorously protested, because we thought he was so completely in what we would tend to call the other camp that his conclusions would almost certainly be against the C.B.C. and perhaps for altogether ending the C.B.C.'s existence. Instead we have this report in which we note some very interesting recommendations, and I would like to read one recommendation which I imagine some members will have missed in connection with the private radio stations. This appears at page 144 of the report, and reads as follows:
-once a licence was granted to a private station operator there was little effective control over the manner in which he used the licence. At all events, there is no record of any licence ever being suspended, revoked or unrenewed on the grounds of a poor performance by the licensee. Since, in human affairs, the continuation of such perfection is unlikely, we recommend that in future the standards of performance of private stations should be more effectively checked, that those who give inadequate public service or shabby performances under their franchises should be warned, and that the licences of those who fail to make substantial improvements after such warnings should be cancelled. To put the matter briefly, we think that the presence of private elements in our broadcasting system should be clearly accepted as valuable and permanent; but that the performance level of private stations should be a high one to justify the grant to them of valuable public rights-higher in fact than it has been, with some notable exceptions, in the past.
I think that puts the point very clearly about which we and many others were so concerned, namely the feeling that the fetters would be completely taken off, where they existed, for the private stations, and that the national network and the national programming of the C.B.C. would go into limbo. It has certainly been a complete and pleasant surprise to many of us to see indications of the way in which the government is moving.
I remember that last year during the election campaign one member of the government was in a certain community, and after his departure radio and television interests in the area were rubbing their hands and saying, "Well, we won't have to worry about the C.B.C. any more. We got the tip that it is going to get the axe." I believe that explains the general reaction of surprise and pleasure on the part of both the official opposition and

ourselves at the direction in which the government is moving.
One criticism of the Fowler report which contained some accurate observations was that written by Mr. I. Norman Smith in the Ottawa Journal of July 8, 1958. He dealt with the C.B.C. leadership and pointed out that the recommended board of broadcast governors would set up a chairman who would not have continuing experience; that is to say, the longest term he would probably have would be three years. Mr. Smith also raised very strongly another significant question. It is recommended he would work two days a week, and Mr. Smith questioned whether a part-time chairman would be really able to carry out the duties of supervising such a sprawling and many-faceted operation as broadcasting in Canada. Mr. Smith went on to draw the moral that probably this was the very question which led to the resignation of Mr. Dunton. He was speculating, of course, and there is no reason to believe that is so, but in this editorial he went on to say:
-it seems to me the uncertainty facing C.B.C. probably was a factor in his resignation. And I am certain that that uncertainty will stand in the way of finding the best possible man as his successor.
The Fowler report was full of good analysis and suggestion, but it came up with an utterly cockeyed recommendation as to the leadership of Canadian radio. The Conservative government should lose no time in disowning that particular recommendation of a commission established by its Liberal predecessors.
Well, we will wait and see if the government is going to disown that recommendation, but it does raise a point. We need perhaps more continuity in the board of broadcast governors and more full time leadership, let us say, from the chairman of that board than is indicated in the sample act that has been presented by the commission. I hope the government is giving serious consideration to this question.
One phase of the matter our group is hoping will be cleared up in the future is the question of political broadcasts. I should simply like to review the situation at the present time as far as the C.B.C. is concerned. To me the national aspect of the C.B.C. and its political broadcasts are among the more important educational features and functions carried out by broadcasting. It is my contention that the C.B.C. has not shown a great deal of leadership in this field. Its impartiality has led it to become much more dull and dreary than is necessary. I should like to read a paragraph from an interesting article which sets out some comments on the matter:
To begin with, during election periods, free political time is divided between the parties, and programs which at other times bring together

opposing points of view are eliminated. Normally the C.B.C. discussion programs, press conferences, etc., are very effective, and often they reveal real differences between party points of view. Certainly they are by far the most interesting type of political broadcast and frequently the discussion they stir up continues long after particular shows. But not only does the C.B.C. cancel its most effective political education programs during election time, it also takes special pains to ensure that the single-party election broadcasts will be as uninspiring as possible. It prohibits, specifically, r'all political broadcasts incorporating any device which would be considered theatrical, such as dramatic skits."
I do not know, but I thought we did have a little bit of theatre and drama in the last election campaign which the C.B.C. did not control, but perhaps that may all have been to the good. The article goes on to say:
Furthermore, the use of the following is also prohibited:	Aim clips, slides, music, animation,
cartoons and still photographs (unless they show only "individual persons" who are "members of the party sponsoring the broadcast"). If these restrictions were imposed on public affairs broadcasts between elections there would probably be a mass suicide of C.B.C. talks producers within a month.


Mr. Chairman, I wonder if the hon. gentleman would identify the article for the record. He may have done so but I failed to catch it.


The article is by Professor Kenneth McNaught. It is entitled "The Failure of Television in Politics" and appeared in the August 1958 issue of the Canadian Forum. This may appear to be unrelated to the resolution but I bring it up for the following reason. The C.B.C. has carried out its function in this respect but many have been critical of its political broadcasts. I certainly have been critical of it as far as its regulatory functions and political broadcasts are concerned. As the Fowler report pointed out, the corporation has never revoked a licence and has never put its foot down with respect to regulations concerning private stations.
We hope two things will come out of the new organization. We hope the C.B.C. will be given encouragement, being one step further removed from popular political criticism in the sense that it is now to be a bit more free in its programming. We also hope the board of broadcast governors will really fill the regulatory role the C.B.C. failed to fill in going after private stations for their level of performance and the amount of commercials they carry in relation to program time. If these two things develop from this new establishment I believe this government will merit the very strong approval of the Canadian people.
One of the keys to the future will be how the regulations will apply to the private stations with respect to their requirement to
57071-3-238}
Broadcasting
take network programs, and how much they will be allowed to import from other countries. The Leader of the Opposition made reference to this last night. If you have followed the proposals of the C.A.R.T.B. through the years you will know that in essence that is what they are after. They are seeking freedom from anything that prohibits them from making more money.
The Leader of the Opposition said there is nothing wrong with that. I suggest there could be something very much wrong with this if outright commercialism and a materialistic approach in this regard leads to an abuse or almost a sabotage of a valuable public service. If the board of governors in its regulations which will be developed under this legislation can bring about a degree of real control and a certain amount of inspiration, I believe this rather nasty and puling controversy that has gone on for 15 or 20 years between private broadcasting interests on the one side and the C.B.C. on the other will just disappear. In that regard I hope the C.A.R.T.B. can give some kind of leadership to the private stations.
Those of us who have listened to radio across this country know that in some areas you get a concentration of excellent radio and television service. I think of how fortunate Winnipeg is as far as its radio reception is concerned. I doubt if you could find a place in the country where radio covers events more thoroughly or in a more stimulating fashion; yet in other places devoid of the stimulation of competition radio seems to vegetate and produce nothing but programs featuring the fifty-ninth and sixtieth most popular records on the hit parade and a succession of rather jazzy commercials.
The focus of our discussion is not really before us at present, however, and we will be better able to refer to these matters when we have seen the bill and what it spells out. After the bill comes down, if it proves to be as satisfactory as we think it is going to be we will be eager to learn who will be the personnel of the board of broadcast governors, and we trust they will establish regulations that will really mean something and will carry out most of the recommendations of the Fowler commission.
The one point that has not been mentioned to any great extent is the question of the financing of the C.B.C. We know that is perhaps the toughest of all the problems, because it is the place where the corporation has seemed to be most vulnerable to every person. The news that a certain program cost $15,000 or $50,000 to produce always seems staggering; but when you see in the Fowler commission how this is related to

Broadcasting
an estimated program based upon $15 a year for a television set, or you see it in terms of 4 cents per family, it does not seem nearly so bad. When you see the concentration of criticism-and we have had those enemies of the C.B.C. firing at it in all its aspects- it makes one conscious of how tough it is going to be to build up a financing system for the corporation and for the board of broadcast governors that will have general approval and not be sniped at all the time.
It was very noticeable that when the last mimeographed report of the C.B.C. came out newspapers across the country were throwing darts at the corporation for its lavishness and tremendous expenditures. Well, the Fowler commission, and I hope this government, recognize that you cannot have good television programming unless you do spend money. In essence, I do not think Canadians are as cheap as some of the public comments or some of the public men and the newpapermen in the country. I think we are prepared to pay for good programming, and we trust that the financing set-up will be a long-term one. We hope the minister does what he promised earlier, namely get rid of the excise tax on tubes. We do not know what to suggest in connection with the question of licence fees, but licence fees do not seem feasible at the present time. We shall look very closely at the particular point of financing.


Shall the resolution carry?


I would like to say one word. Every Saturday evening the C.B.C. puts on a wrestling program from Maple Leaf Gardens and from other places. I like to watch these matches and I know thousands across Canada like to watch them because clean wrestling is really worth while. In many instances when a winner is declared you see the winner go up and kick the man who is down, or the loser will kick the winner. I think some of this rough stuff should be eliminated from television. I do not think it is good for our young people. I know of one instance where a boy in high school was kicking another boy, and he was upbraided by the teacher. He said, "I saw it on television".


I regret to interrupt the hon. member, but I do not think his comments are relevant to the resolution now under discussion. The hon. member is discussing the content of the programs of the C.B.C. which has nothing to do with the present resolution. I must inform the hon. member that his comments are out of order.


I quite agree with you, Mr. Chairman, but I wanted to make them.


Mr. Chairman, if I rise it is only for a moment to speak more on a point of order than on the subject matter of the resolution itself. For two days we have been discussing a certain resolution placed before the house. Certain members have made reference to further study of a bill which so far has only been indicated by the Minister of National Revenue. Nowhere do we find that the government is under the obligation to present a bill to implement what is contained in the resolution. Yesterday the Minister of National Revenue made reference to the fact that a bill would be presented. He said, as reported at page 3749 of Hansard:
I trust, Mr. Chairman, that the committee will see fit to pass this resolution at as early a date as possible, so that the bill can be brought down and the details of the legislation considered by hon. members.
Other hon. members have made reference to a future bill, but I feel that the matter of legislation concerning broadcasting in Canada is so important that it should be introduced properly in the house. Possibly everyone in the house should rely on the words of the Minister of National Revenue, but on other occasions in the house we have seen contradictions as to what was the obligation of the government under certain circumstances. It comes to mind that a short while ago certain members of the cabinet felt that the government should not be in a position to decide on the NORAD agreement, and a day later we found that the government-


Order.


He is in order.


I must ask the hon. member to relate his remarks to the present resolution.


Mr. Chairman, on the point of order raised by the Minister of Finance, I feel I am now discussing the propriety of amending the resolution so it will take care of a problem. At times we are informed that the house will have something to say about certain things, and at other times that the consent of the house will not be required. That is why I feel it is pertinent to recall those instances when that problem arose. It was only for that purpose that I referred to the NORAD agreement which was dealt with in this house some time ago. It relates to the importance of this measure.
I further realize that it is essential today for the present government and the Minister of National Revenue to have the benefit of the work done in the past by the previous government, and especially the Fowler report. It seems to me everyone should agree

that this resolution should refer to legislation to be placed before the house. For my part, I intend to rely on the bill which will be presented so that I may further study this very important Canadian problem. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I would like to move an amendment to the resolution as follows:
That the resolution be amended by inserting the words: "to introduce a measure" after the word "expedient" and before the word "to" where they appear in the first line thereof.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Of course, Mr. Chairman, if they want to waste time by moving an amendment such as this, I am perfectly happy to accept it because it is obvious-


Mr. Chairman, I want to address myself to the minister's remarks. The minister has come before this house asking it to pass a resolution to give the government leave to introduce a bill on one of the very important subjects affecting our Canadian life. Through an error or an oversight he has in fact worded his resolution so that it approves the action he proposes to take without obligating himself in any way to disclose to the house what that action is. His own speech shows the truth of what I am saying now.
When an hon. member follows the rules and procedure of the house and moves a proper motion in the manner in which it has been done today, the minister has no right to make the kind of remarks he has made. The amendment is wholly in order. It is a proper motion, and when the omission was drawn to the minister's attention last night I was surprised that he did not undertake immediately to introduce an amendment himself to deal with the matter properly. You will see, Mr. Chairman, that if the resolution is passed as it is now worded the house will be approving the establishment of a board of broadcast governors, and if you read the minister's speech that is not what he asked for at all. He asked for a bill to establish a board of broadcast governors.


How would you do it without a bill? Can the hon. member tell me that?


Yes, I can tell the minister, but I do not know that I should take the time to do so. The minister should have followed the precedents of the House of Commons and not lost his temper and made the nasty remarks he has made about a member who has acted properly in moving the amendment.


He did not lose his temper at all.


If the minister feels that this is of no importance at all I suggest that he
Broadcasting
look at Routine Proceedings and Orders of the Day for this day. He will find that there are three other resolutions there and that in every case they begin with the words, "resolved, that it is expedient to introduce a measure." All we are asking the minister to do is to follow the normal procedure. Obviously this is an oversight resulting from some sloppy work on somebody's part, and the minister might well make the correction graciously, as he so often does.


The resolution was drafted by the Department of Justice and is perfectly in order and in keeping with many other resolutions which have been brought before the house. It is true that on the order paper there are other resolutions with the words "to introduce a measure" but in those cases the purpose is to amend something. Here the purpose is to create something and the preliminary words, "to introduce a measure", are not necessary according to the best legal advice available to the government.
However, it is obviously a question of tweedledee and tweedledum, and I do not propose to debate it longer. If I showed any temper I apologize to the committee, but the matter involved something that I felt was so utterly wasteful of time that it was hardly worth mentioning, because obviously we are going to introduce a bill as soon as the resolution is passed. I am very happy to accept the amendment if the committee thinks it advisable.


The minister has said that this resolution was drafted by the Department of Justice. Can the minister tell me when the Department of Justice began drafting these resolutions? In my rather long experience they were not drafted by the Department of Justice.


I could not answer that question correctly, but I know that in this instance it was drafted there.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


The amendment.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the amendment to the resolution?


Amendment agreed to.
Shall the resolution as amended carry?


Mr. Chairman, if I did not know the hon. member for Mackenzie River so well my feelings might have been hurt by his getting up to leave at the very moment I rose to make a few observations on this resolution. However, the hon. member for Mackenzie River and I understand each other

Broadcasting
and I can understand, as he knows very well what I intend to say, why he does not feel it necessary to remain.
About a month ago when the Leader of the Opposition drew the attention of parliament in a forceful manner to the delay which had taken place in bringing down this very important legislative proposal which we at last have before us, he indicated that this was a matter which should not be rushed through the house at the end of the session. It is true, as the hon. member for Port Arthur has pointed out, that this matter was very carefully considered by a royal commission which made what we on this side of the house regard as an excellent report, but from the indications in the resolution before us the government intends to deviate from the recommendations of that report in one very important particular, and that with respect to the financing of the C.B.C. I intend to address myself particularly to that point.
Before I do so I should like to recall to the committee the two suggestions made by the Leader of the Opposition last evening with respect to dealing with this matter. The first suggestion was that the bill should be given first reading, allowed to stand on the order paper, and then be reintroduced at the next session of parliament so the hundreds of thousands of Canadians who are actively interested in what legislation of this kind will effect will have an opportunity to see what is proposed and study the matter and so that we, the elected representatives of the people, and the members of the other place who also have a responsibility in this matter, will have an adequate opportunity to see that all important points of view on a subject of such great interest to so many Canadians are adequately expressed in parliament.
Even if the most pessimistic views as to the length of the session should turn out to be right, I do not believe that even in that case there will be the kind of opportunity and atmosphere in which such legislation should be considered by parliament; because I think all of us from my observation-perhaps I should speak only for myself-are getting a bit weary, and there are many other urgent matters coming before parliament toward the end of the session. Having in mind the hours we sit in the house, I cannot imagine that it would be possible to have committee meetings that would not conflict with the meetings of the house, and that would put some members who are greatly interested in this matter under the embarrassment of having to choose between two duties that we consider equally urgent.
While the rest of the speech of the hon. member for Port Arthur was admirable, I certainly do not feel I could agree with his

suggestion that there is no need to have the proposed bill go to a select committee both here and in the other place, if the ladies and gentlemen of the other place want to have such a committee. What the government is proposing is to alter in a very fundamental respect-there is one respect, at any rate, with which I think we agree-the whole structure of broadcasting in this country. This is a very important decision we are being asked to make.
My own preference would be for the first suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition, that we should have first reading of the bill so the public will have a chance to see precisely what is in the government's mind, that the Minister of Finance should then bring in a supplementary estimate covering a period of one more year, as was done by his predecessor in 1957, and that at the next session of parliament the government, having its legislation ready, could introduce it almost at the beginning of the session and the committee could be set up and start to meet in the early stages of the session so it would not conflict with other matters. There would then be a better opportunity for really orderly consideration of this very important measure.
On the other hand, if the government are quite determined to proceed with this measure at this session I recognize, of course, that that is their right. While I would prefer they would not do it I think, so far as the official opposition is concerned, as the Leader of the Opposition indicated last night we would want to insist that the government do what they promised in the speech from the throne, that is set up a select committee and send this measure to that select committee. However, if this were done we would have to make sure the meetings of that committee were so arranged that it would be possible for those of us who want to attend to be present at those meetings without neglecting what we regard as the urgent business of our constituents here in this place.
Having said that, sir, I should like to make one or two observations about what I hope will be in the bill. I agree with the hon. member for Port Arthur that something should be done about political broadcasting. I have had quite a lot of experience in the negotiations that have gone on in recent years, and I have thought for a long time that it was a very disagreeable and very unfortunate duty that was imposed upon the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation by the existing legislation.
In so far as I am a member of the Liberal party and I have to take responsibility for it being there,-of course it was put there long before my time-I am quite willing to take that responsibility. However, I think it is unfortunate that the law as it now stands puts

the responsibility on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation for apportioning the time for political broadcasting. I can well understand why the responsibility was put on the corporation in 1936, but I think events have shown that this is not a proper function of the broadcasting corporation.
I would hope the government, in drafting this legislation, would not impose this obligation on the board of broadcast governors, because of course, it will not be a function of the corporation in any event in the future. I would hope that we would follow in this parliament the precedent of Westminster, which we do when we have no other in connection with other matters, and that this matter will, in future, be settled by parliament itself. It does seem to me it is putting this organization, which ought to be completely independent, in a very invidious position to ask it to make decisions on this matter. No political party is ever going to be satisfied with the decisions that are made.
It seems to me it is just subjecting this body to unnecessary feeling and criticism. It is a duty for which, if they are chosen for the other function for which we want them to be chosen, they are not apt to be particularly qualified.
Now, that brings me to the next point I want to make. These points are to some extent, I admit, a repetition though in quite different language of some of the things I said on the amendment to the motion to go into supply, so I shall make them very briefly. I do say that the most important of all considerations which should be borne in mind by the government in connection with this legislation is to put every safeguard which it is possible to conceive into this legislation to make sure that the board of broadcast governors will be completely independent of the government and also of the opposition. In other words, we should ensure that this body has control of broadcasting.
It seems to me that the analogy I made the other day is a sound one, the analogy with the courts. We want this body of broadcast governors which is to control the exercise of the right of freedom of speech in this country, in what is the most important and influential of all media for the exercise of that right, to be free from any control by the occupants of the treasury benches, whoever they may be, or of any other political party. The only way we can do that, of course, is to make quite sure we appoint people with sufficient independence of character that they will not yield to any kind of pressure.
It was maintained by the Prime Minister in another debate and in another parliament that one way of achieving this was by denying to the government and to members of
Broadcasting
the government, even in a private capacity, the right to make any representations about this matter. I feel that is the wrong way of going about this. We do not deny the government access to the courts, and I do not think the government should be denied the opportunity to make representations about broadcasting any more than the members of the opposition should be. I believe any citizen should be quite free to make representations. We should have the kind of board and the kind of set-up which will make it possible for the Prime Minister, if he does not like a program, to say so publicly without anyone suspecting that he is trying improperly to influence the course of action of that board. It does happen that we have prime ministers from time to time who have good taste and good judgment and who, like the rest of us who are citizens of the country, should be free in a matter of this kind to express their views.
Now, that is a very different thing from exercising any kind of pressure, proper or improper. I am going to put forward what is not a new idea with me, and it is not one I am putting forward on behalf of the Liberal party. Here I am speaking as a private member of parliament putting forward an idea of my own. I put this idea forward to some of my former colleagues, but I did not succeed in persuading them.


It must be a good one.


It is a very good one, and perhaps I will be more successful in persuading the hon. gentlemen opposite who, as we all know, are so open-minded and who have so notably changed so many of their ideas since they were on this side of the house. It did seem to me that one way in which it might be possible to get a balance on this board of broadcast governors, a continuity which would go on regardless of changes in government, would be to provide that a substantial majority of them would be nominated by the prime minister, and that a minority of them, but a sufficient number to have some influence, would be nominated by the leader of the opposition of the day.
Since the purpose is, as the minister so well stated, to make this body responsible directly to parliament and not to the government, and to remove any suggestion that there might be any political pressure from anywhere, I put this idea forward. Frankly, sir, I do not expect that it will be accepted, but I put it forward as an honest contribution to the solution of what is a very difficult problem. I know the minister appreciates that it is a very difficult problem.

Broadcasting
I do not believe I would be breaking any confidences if I said there are times when ministers, and I suppose this is true of the present occupants of the treasury benches as it was of others, get very indignant about what is done by the broadcasting corporation. They want to do something about it. The minister who reports to parliament is sometimes under some pressure from his colleagues to do something about it. Some of them are quite indignant when he is not able to soothe their ruffled dignity in certain instances.
As I say, this is something that is sufficiently well known that it does not need any underlining. The problem, however, is a very serious one. I am very glad that the present minister is in the position he is now because I am quite confident that he, like his predecessor, is not easily pushed around. I think the present minister has a conception of the importance-partly because he belongs to the profession to which he belongs, and partly because of his temperament-of having this body independent of the government and of any possibility of pressure from the government.
All of us who are in parliament have lived in a world in which we have seen what has happened to countries where broadcasting is the instrument of government. It is almost 20 years since the free world engaged in what up to that time was the worst and most terrible conflict in history against a country the majority of whose people, I am convinced, did not want to have a war but who had been subject to propaganda by a government that had complete control of the radio and the other facilities for the expression of views in that country. Much more than half of the world we live in is controlled by governments that also control these powerful means of influencing public opinion.
The Americans, of course, approach this matter in a different way. They say the government must not own any of these stations and must not have anything to do with broadcasting, that it must be left entirely to private enterprise. In that way they feel they will be protected from any governmental propaganda through radio. We cannot use that method in Canada or at least no government has thought that was possible since the days when the Aird commission was appointed. I am glad to see-as I said, this is one of the cases where I think Mr. Bennett was right-that the present administration seems to be following that line. However, I think the government should and will want to seize every possible method ensuring that this important board is given the degree of independence that it must have

It seems to me that degree of independence will depend upon two things. It will depend upon the character and upon the tenure of the appointees.
I am inclined to agree with the criticism by Mr. I. Norman Smith to which the hon. member for Port Arthur referred. I must say it was one of the few things in the Fowler report about which I had grave reservations. I refer to the proposed shortness of tenure of the chairman of the board. I know there is a problem there. I know that it is not easy of solution. However, it is a problem that perhaps we should not discuss very much until we see what conclusion the government has reached, because otherwise we are merely being rather speculative. Nevertheless, it is a problem of the greatest possible magnitude. As everyone who has commented on Mr. Dunton's retirement has pointed out, upon the chairman will rest the prime responsibility for ensuring in the future what we have had in the past under the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation under Mr. Dunton, namely a board that could not be pushed around by anybody. That is what we want.
But there is another thing that is equally important. We do not want a board of broadcast governors who have nothing to govern except the private stations. The way in which the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation will be financed is just as important to the assurance of this independent and effective national system as is the independence of the broadcast governors. That consideration is what disturbs me greatly over the resolution introduced by the minister. I refer to the fact that it makes no provision, and indicates that no provision will be made in the legislation, for anything except the salaries and other remuneration of the officers and employees of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. The scheme for financing the activities of the corporation is something else again, of which up until now we have been told nothing precise.
Before the minister asks us to agree to this resolution I feel that he should indicate the scheme of financing the government is proposing to carry out. In doing so I hope he will make it very clear that it is not to be based upon annual appropriations. Of all the methods by which a government may exercise control-and in most cases we expect the government to exercise control; it is its duty; that is what it is elected for in most cases-the best way and most effective way of controlling the operations of a government department is through the financial control. But that is precisely what we do not want in this field if we are going to ensure for the corporation that independence of the

government which I have suggested is fundamental and which we all want.
I say that for this reason. If the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation is obliged to go, as government departments do, almost on bended knee to the Minister of Finance once a year in order to justify everything they have done propriation should be increased or should be and attempt to persuade him that their ap-changed, insensibly and insidiously there will be an almost irresistible temptation-I do not say that it will be yielded to-to try to please the Minister of Finance.
In view particularly of some of the views expressed by the Minister of Finance when he enjoyed the same kind of freedom to express his own views as I am enjoying at the moment, I do not think we on this side of the house would have the same confidence in having the broadcasting of this country subject to the Minister of Finance that we would in having as its trustee, as its spokesman here in this house, the Minister of National Revenue.
I say that without meaning any disrespect whatsoever for the Minister of Finance. As I say, he is perfectly entitled to his opinions; but those opinions which he expressed in the house in the past were highly unfavourable to the national system of broadcasting. It is possible, of course, that Saul has been turned into Paul and that the minister has seen the light on the road to Damascus. As a matter of fact the minister seems to have seen a great many lights since he moved over to the government side. I think he has learned a few things. However, some of us are bound to remain sceptical.
As I said the other day, Mr. Chairman, and I repeat it, I feel that in some fashion some other financial provision should be made for national broadcasting for a period of years of fixed duration on a for