Hon. Donald M. Fleming (Minister of
Finance): Mr. Speaker, I should like to table the text of a note delivered to the department of state at Washington on January 15 by the Canadian ambassador concerning the restrictions imposed by the United States government on imports of Canadian oil.
Read it.


Some hon. member says "Read it". I can read it if it is the wish of hon. members.


Dispense.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Finance. Would the minister care to table the protests which the government has made to the United States authorities respecting the proposed tariff on lead and zinc?


There have been no notes or written submissions to the United States government on that score, certainly since the present government came into office; but, as I have indicated in reply to questions earlier this session, it has been a matter on which there has been frequent oral exchange of views. I pointed out that we made strong representations on this subject at the meeting of the Canadian-United States continuing committee on trade and economic matters in Washington in October. It has been mentioned frequently since then. The United States administration is very well aware of the position of the Canadian government with regard to this threatened action.


I
wish to ask a supplementary question of the Minister of Finance. In view of the great seriousness of this situation and the threat it offers to the mining industry of Canada, does
he think their present representations, methods and procedures are sufficient and adequate?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. Our views have been put before the United States authorities through the proper channels, and we have every reason to know that those views are fully understood in Washington. They have been put forward with very great vigour. There are two possible courses of action that might be taken at Washington with regard to this matter. One might be through congress and the other might be through the executive. Naturally, with our deep concern over this situation and the action which has been threatening now for some time, the house may be assured that we shall continue to watch the situation vigilantly.


I wish to ask a supplementary question. I wonder whether the minister has had brought to his attention the threatened increase in the duty on Canadian copper going into the United States. If so, have representations been made with regard to copper and other commodities?


I am not aware of any recent threat.


The threat was made
yesterday.


I have not had any communication on that subject. We shall certainly look into it.


Mr. Speaker, I might inform the minister that the press reports that legislation has been introduced in congress to bring this about.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to submit a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce pursuant to my question of January 13, with reference to the increased competition for the disposal of farm surpluses by other exporting countries and their acceptance of sterling. I would therefore ask if the present government is also prepared to accept sterling in payment for Canadian agricultural surpluses, as it advocated when it was the opposition on this side of the House of Commons.

Inquiries of the Ministry


And you opposed on the other side.


We never advocated it; and I would suggest that if noise sold wheat the hon. member for Assiniboia would have sold our entire surplus a long time ago.


Mr. Speaker, I do not know how serious the hon. member's question is, and I take it he is not advocating the acceptance of sterling himself.


Let us hear the answer.


Your party advocated the acceptance of sterling when you sat on this side of the House of Commons, and I want to know if you are accepting it.


It was just the leader who advocated it; the party voted against it.


Why not stick to the facts for once?


Perhaps we are engaging in a debate as to what was said by one party or another in days gone by. My hon. friends will have plenty of time on that side of the house to consider all these problems relating to the sale of wheat. I have discussed this question many times. The wheat board has accepted convertible sterling when wheat has been sold.


Convertible sterling, yes. That is an entirely different thing.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the apparent success of the government's plan to reduce purchases from the United States, is it proposed to pursue this course beyond the 15 per cent objective as announced by the Prime Minister shortly after he assumed office?


I am very glad, Mr. Speaker, that the hon. member recognizes that our trade with the United Kingdom is being increased-


No, no!


-and that our general trade is increasing. Whether or not the increase in trade with the United Kingdom exceeds the 15 per cent which my hon. friend has mentioned will be shown in due course, but the general trade position of Canada is excellent and we are trading with all countries of the world.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I should speak a little louder. The minister apparently misunderstood my question. If I may I will repeat it. In view of the apparent success of the government's plan to reduce purchases from the United States, is it proposed to pursue this course beyond the 15 per cent objective announced by the Prime Minister shortly after he assumed office?


Why not 30 per cent? If 15 per cent is good, 30 per cent should be twice as good.


Mr. Speaker, I presume we could have questions repeated endlessly. The hon. member is interested-


In an answer to his question.


-in the increase in trade which is taking place between Canada and the United Kingdom.


No, no.


The question is about the United States.


I hope he is also interested in achieving a better balance of trade between Canada and the United States.


Mr. Speaker-


Order. It seems to me this matter could very readily become a debate rather than a series of questions and answers as provided for at this stage of the proceedings. The hon. member for Yorkton.


Mr. Speaker, am I not entitled to an answer?


Order. I think the hon. member for Nipissing made a remark just as the hon. member for Yorkton was rising. Perhaps I should say to him that he did ask his question twice and received an answer twice, and as I cannot assure him the answer that he wants I felt, therefore, that the matter had gone far enough.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I believe it is about six weeks since we had delegations arrive from Spain and Poland to buy some Canadian wheat. Can he give us any information now as to whether negotiations are still going on or whether we can assume we will not be selling any wheat to either Spain or Poland?

Hon. Gordon Churchill (Minister of Trade
and Commerce): Mr. Speaker, in the first place I do not know of any delegation coming from Spain and Poland. Second, these negotiations for the sale of wheat are carried on by private brokers. They may be going on at the present time.


Hon. George H. Hees (Minister of Transport:) Mr. Speaker, I wish to make an announcement regarding the extension of international scheduled air services of Canadian carriers.
Trans-Canada Air lines recently applied to the air transport board for permission to operate a scheduled service between Montreal and Brussels, Belgium, and a service between the co-terminal points Montreal and Toronto and Zurich, Switzerland. There are now in force bilateral air transport agreements between Canada and Belgium and Canada and Switzerland providing for the operation of these routes by a Canadian carrier. Trans-Canada Air Lines has been authorized to operate the routes between Montreal and Brussels, and between Montreal and Toronto and Zurich. I expect that T.C.A. will commence service to these countries this year.
Canadian Pacific Airlines Limited has applied to the air transport board for the addition of Edmonton in lieu of Yellowknife on its international route between Vancouver and Amsterdam. This application has also been approved, so travellers from western Canada who wish to go to Europe via C.P.A.'s polar route will now be able to board the plane at Edmonton. C.P.A. will also have the right to pick up and put down at Edmonton traffic destined to or proceeding from other points on its international routes via Vancouver.
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport arising out of the statement he has just made. Has the department or the government given consideration to the application for fifth freedom rights by Air France at Montreal?


I am not aware of any application by Air France for such rights, but I will check on the matter.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport arising out
Air Transport
of his statement this morning concerning the extension of certain scheduled air services. Is the minister aware of the fact that even with respect to its overseas routes, Trans-Canada Air Lines is obligated to have its major overhaul and repair work done in Canada? Will the government consider making it a condition of the licences for the overseas routes granted to Canadian Pacific Airlines that this company meet the same conditions as are imposed on Trans-Canada Air Lines with respect to this matter?


I do not think we have a right to make such a requirement, but I will look into the matter.


Mr. Speaker, with respect to the earlier announcement made by the Minister of Transport, I was wondering if the minister could tell us when it is intended to inaugurate the services he referred to, particularly with respect to the Edmonton service?


Mr. Speaker, could I ask the hon. member if he is referring to the stop at Edmonton by C.P.A.?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


That is up to C.P.A. They have the right to stop there and inaugurate the service immediately. It is up to them when they start it.


May
I ask a supplementary question of the Minister of Transport. Is the minister aware that there are Canadian Pacific Airlines advertisements in today's newspapers announcing a reduction in the company's fares to Europe, subject to government approval? My question relates to that condition. If the government has the say as to the granting of licences and as to the fares to be charged, can the government not make it a condition of such licences or the charging of such fares that all major overhaul and maintenance work be done in Canada by Canadian Pacific Airlines, as is done by Trans-Canada Air Lines?


I am not aware of the particular announcement by Canadian Pacific Airlines. If they wished to reduce their fares I think it would be a matter to be decided by the management of the company. I have already advised-


But
the advertisement says it is subject to government approval.

Inquiries of the Ministry


I do not think the air transport board will refuse their application to reduce fares. What I was referring to was the decision of the company to apply for the right to reduce their fares. I have previously replied to the hon. member's question, stating that I do not believe it is within the government's right to require them to have their repairs done in any particular place. However, I told him I would look into the matter and report to the house.


May
I ask this question. Does the minister not think, in the interests of fair competitive conditions, that conditions of the sort suggested by my hon. friend should be laid down, because Canadian Pacific Airlines could have servicing performed in Hong Kong or some other place in which there is low paid labour, thus creating unfair competition for Canadian labour as well as Trans-Canada Air Lines?


Once again I should like to remind the hon. member that I told him I would look into the question of whether or not the government has the right to require any private air line to have repairs performed in any particular place. After I have done that, as I have assured the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, I will report further to the house. I do not think I can do any more than that at this time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Acting Prime Minister whether all the correspondence with the provincial governments for which I asked on January 7, respecting matters arising out of the federal-provincial conference, was tabled by the Prime Minister last Saturday. The hon. gentleman will recall that these letters were printed in Hansard. Was there a letter from the premier of Nova Scotia which was not tabled at that time?


I shall be glad to look into that situation.


May I ask a supplementary question. Does the Acting Prime Minister not know whether there was a letter from the premier of Nova Scotia? Does that mean that these letters, like those from the premier of Newfoundland, are not circulated in the cabinet?


I do suggest that the remarks just made by the hon. member are quite out of place.


It was a question, and a perfectly proper one.


Just trying to show off.


On the orders of the day:
In
the absence of the Minister of National Defence I should like to address a question to his parliamentary assistant or to the acting minister. In view of the critical unemployment condition on the Pacific coast, has a recent newspaper article in the Vancouver Sun of January 13 been drawn to the attention of the minister, respecting a charge that civilian employees of H.M.C. Dockyard, Victoria, are accepting employment during their off hours? Would the minister indicate whether these charges have been investigated, and what action his department intends taking in the matter?


Mr. Speaker, I shall have to take the question as notice, and the minister will make an announcement in due course.


On the orders of the day:
May I
address a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. Has the minister now received a reply from the province of Ontario with respect to the establishment of a metropolitan park and camp site in the county of Essex in aid of the present unemployment situation, as was anticipated in the minister's statement of January 13 last?


Mr. Speaker, I think perhaps there is a slight misunderstanding on the part of the hon. member for Essex West with respect to this program which I mentioned in relation to the campground-picnic proposition and also the forest access roads. The main characteristics of this program are that the provinces will take on certain projects in their areas, submit them to us, and we will pay 50 per cent of the cost. We have been in conversation by letter and by telegram with the province of Ontario and the minister told me last night

they would be sending to my department a list of the projects they have in mind. As yet I have not seen any such detailed list, and of course I cannot in any case speak for the province of Ontario. They are the ones who decide the projects they want.


Mr. Speaker, I am not under any misunderstanding. I am only interested in the employment situation. I am only interested in providing work.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct another question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. Has the province of Ontario given approval to the recommendation of the minister, and if not would he communicate with the province of Ontario again in regard to assistance in improving access to Point Pelee national park and the building of a bridge over Sturgeon creek leading to Point Pelee park as an aid to the hundreds of unemployed in the Windsor area?


Mr. Speaker, I have already told the hon. member for Essex West that I have no power and I have no intention of even suggesting any proposition to any province in this respect. The provinces run their own show, and we do not intend to direct them from this government.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys, or in his absence to his parliamentary assistant. Has the department been informed that the Elk river colliery at Fernie will be closed permanently at the end of this month, throwing some 300 men out of work? If so, would the department see whether or not something could be done by the dominion coal board to prevent closure of the colliery at this time?


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys I will take notice of this question, and the minister will give an answer tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the application
Inquiries of the Ministry of the railways to the board of transport commissioners for an increase in demurrage charges on box cars loaded with grain at terminal points, can the minister give the house the assurance that such application will not be granted?


Order. It seems to me the
question relates to a matter pending before the transport board which has not been decided and is not yet the responsibility of the government. It is therefore a hypothetical question.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to
direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Is he yet prepared to make a statement to the house with regard to the grain quota delivery situation in western Canada?


A statement on what?


The grain delivery quota
situation in western Canada.


I will take the question
as notice and have a statement for the hon. member shortly.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Has he received any complaints from the western wheat pool organizations protesting the inequitable distribution of shipping orders as between the grain companies and the wheat pools? If this is not a matter for the Minister of Agriculture, then I direct my question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce.


Mr. Speaker, the matter of the allocation of box cars does not come under my department.


Then I will direct my
question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Has the minister received any complaints from the western wheat pool organizations protesting the inequitable distribution of shipping orders as between the grain companies and the wheat pools?


Diversion of box cars.

Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I think this question has also been raised before. The answer is yes; representations have been made to me by the wheat pools with regard to box car allocation.


The minister misunderstood my question. It had to do with the inequitable distribution of shipping orders as between the wheat pools and the grain elevator companies.


The representations dealt largely with the allocation of box cars. The question of the hon. member, alleging inequitable distribution of shipping orders, was not part of their representations to me.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. I wonder whether the minister is able to make any statement with regard to the Auditor General's report and the comment in yesterday's Gazette with regard to irregularities running into several millions of dollars. Has the minister made any dismissals, or is he able to make any statement?


Mr. Speaker, I have not seen the article to which the hon. member refers. The report of the Auditor General was tabled. All departments of government have taken under scrutiny the portions of that report which affect them, and whatever is required to be done to remove irregularities, if any, that existed under the former government will certainly be done.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question, of which I am sorry I have not given him notice, to the Minister of Finance. He may like to take this as notice and answer tomorrow. When will caretakers grade II and those working part time, six hours or less, in the Department of National Defence receive a salary increase? I understand these two classifications were overlooked last May, and they have had no wage increase for more than a year and a half.


Mr. Speaker, on that subject may I say that all the classifications of caretakers in the
(Mr. Castleden.]	3 i
Department of National Defence were under review by the civil service commission at the time of the wage increase. I understand a new classification has now been worked out and submissions have been made to the appropriate authorities for consideration, and that a decision will be forthcoming shortly.


May I ask a supplementary question. When the new classifications come into force will recognition be given to the fact that these employees did not enjoy the wage increase received by other civil servants last May?


I can only say, Mr. Speaker, that undoubtedly when they were under review that matter I am sure would have been taken into account; but to give a definite answer yes or no would be to prejudge the issue.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to address a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. On Monday last, January 13, I addressed a question to either the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State for External Affairs inquiring if a communication had been received from our ambassador with regard to a statement issued by the supreme council of the Soviet union, made I believe on December 21.
May I ask if that report has now been received and, if so, what disposition has been made of it?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for having given me notice of this question. On Monday last I believe the Prime Minister reported on two letters from Mr. Bulganin, and he also informed the house of our receipt in December of a communication representing the findings of a meeting of the council of the supreme soviet.
I am now able to inform the house that on Thursday morning we received another communication from the Soviet union.
That communication was handed to our ambassador in Moscow, Mr. Johnson, and came to us by bag; that is why we received it only on Thursday last. That communication bears the date of December 21, and I know now, and explained to the hon. member who asked the question, that this is the document to which he was referring last night.

That communication has been sent to Your Honour and it has also been sent to the Speaker in the other place. The request was addressed to our ambassador in Moscow in these terms: "Will you bring this to the attention of your government and your parliament?"


Do I understand it will be available if any member of the house wishes to read it?


Yes.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs, further to his welcome announcement the other day that 2 million bushels of wheat had been offered as a gift to the people and government of Ceylon. In the light of the unemployment in the lumber industry in British Columbia, has the government made a similar offer to the people of Ceylon with regard to a supply of lumber to enable them to rebuild their homes?


Mr. Speaker, in informing the house of the prospect that we would make an additional gift to Ceylon after we had sent forward certain medical supplies by plane, I informed the house that we would discuss with the representative of Ceylon in Canada, and our acting high commissioner in Ceylon would discuss with the Ceylonese government, their needs. That was done, and they asked for flour.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In doing so may I say that I hope he enjoyed his visit to the province of British Columbia. In view of the auspices under which the minister spent part of his time in that province-and I am not referring to those in which the hon. member for Coast-Capilano may have some particular interest-


It would not do him any
good.


-can the minister tell the house whether he would now be prepared to recommend to his colleagues recognition of the government of China with a view to opening up an expanded market for various products in that country?
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, that matter did not come up while I was in Vancouver. It had nothing to do with my visit, and I have no comment to make.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works in his capacity as house leader. Can the minister say if any rental agreements for office space in New York have been entered into by his department on behalf of any government agency since November 1, 1957?


It is my understanding, Mr. Speaker, that the renting of space abroad does not come under the Department of Public Works in the ordinary course.


I wonder if I could with your permission, Mr. Speaker, direct my question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs rather than the Minister of Public Works.


Would the hon. member repeat his question?


Can the minister say if any rental agreements for office space in New York have been entered into by his department on behalf of any Canadian government agency since November 1, 1957?


I shall take that question as notice, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Monday and Tuesday last the hon. member for Laurier asked questions regarding pilotage in the international section of the St. Lawrence river and on the great lakes. This matter is still under study by both Canadian and United States authorities, and it is expected that some reciprocal arrangement will emerge, but we are not yet in a position to make a final statement thereon or to indicate whether, in fact, any special legislation would be involved. It would not appear, however, at this stage that any legislation relating particularly to the international section of the river would be necessary.
Views on the matter of compulsory pilotage on the great lakes have been received

Inquiries of the Ministry	*
from the great lakes pilots' association and from shipping groups, and this matter has been under discussion for some time between Canadian and United States authorities. No decision has been taken regarding compulsory pilotage by the Canadian authorities, although the necessity of maintaining adequate standards of competence is recognized. Whatever decision may be taken in future in regard to this matter is not likely to affect the existing pilotage districts within Canadian waters on the St. Lawrence so far as can now be seen.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Since the minister has recently visited the west coast as well as the east coast, is he now in a position to inform the house when the modern coast guard service he has promoted for many years may become a reality?


Mr. Speaker, I will be very glad to outline to the house and to the hon. member what is being done at the present time in the way of providing coast guard service.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources if he would be willing to table the letter to the premier of Newfoundland, which he mentioned on Tuesday, refusing a request for an amendment to the power bill to assist the Atlantic provinces.


I should imagine, Mr. Speaker, that in due course, subject to the appropriate reservations, this letter could be tabled.


A supplementary question. What does the hon. gentleman mean by "the usual reservations"?


I think possibly, Mr. Speaker, you should explain to the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate that it is usually customary to ask permission from the other party concerned.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. He may want to take it as notice. Could the minister give an up to date report on the action taken by his department under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act with respect to the Peace river district, particularly in British Columbia?


Mr. Speaker, as I have indicated several times before, we have put a large number of inspectors into the Peace river area both in Alberta and in British Columbia. They are carrying out these inspections as rapidly as they possibly can. As the hon. member knows, I think, weather conditions there have been very bad. In some cases inspectors have even had to go to inspect farms on horseback. The bad weather conditions have, of course, imposed some delay as far as getting the inspections completed and the payments made, but the work is being carried on just as rapidly as it can be done.


Are payments under the Prairie Farm Assistance Act being made in those areas where it has been possible to complete the inspections?


So far as the Peace river area is concerned, no payments are being made yet. The general policy which has been followed in that regard is to complete the inspections and adjustments as far as any particular area is concerned before starting to make payments. Otherwise there would be a great deal of dissatisfaction on the part of the farmers, because one farmer would say, "Mr. Brown got paid and I have not got paid, and I am only two or three miles away." In order to avoid that it has always been the policy in the past to complete a particular area so the cheques can all go out at the same time.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture relating to support prices on eggs. Do dealers have to pay floor prices in effect at any time on all eggs purchased from the producers, or do they have to pay floor prices only on those eggs which they intend to turn over to the government as surplus?


Order. We spent five or ten minutes the other day on the question of eggs and support prices. I wonder whether it would not be better for the hon. member to put his question on the order paper as a specific question rather than try to unravel this problem-


Unscramble?


-on the floor of the house, which may take too long. I should say "unscramble".


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Postmaster General. In view of the suggestion made by the Auditor General in the report tabled on Wednesday that parliament should take a new look at post office mailing rates on newspapers and periodicals, may I ask whether the government is considering the introduction of any legislation along this line? I wonder whether the Postmaster General is able to answer the question as to who benefits from the $18 million annual deficit, the publisher, the advertiser or the subscriber?


Mr. Speaker, the Auditor General's report having been tabled only a day or so ago and the reference to the Post Office Department containing such interesting phrases as "news having ephemeral characteristics", I feel that I would want to examine this particular part of the report at somewhat greater length before commenting upon it or attempting to answer the question which has just been asked me.
I should like to say, however, since the question has been asked, that I was most interested in the closing observation of the Auditor General, that these comments were made in the interests of good administration. This, of course, refers to the previous government's administration of the Post Office Department, and as I recall bears out almost exactly statements which were made in this house over a period of time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Wednesday last the hon. member for Kingston asked if a statement
Inquiries of the Ministry could be made on the new role of the Canadian infantry, since he understood that the role of the infantryman was being reassessed. I have made inquiries as to the source of his information, and I am informed that there is no consideration being given to changing the role of the infantryman with the advent of thermonuclear weapons. However, the fighting technique of the infantryman will of necessity have to be adapted to new conditions found to exist under the circumstances.
The term "reassessment" is not to be construed as meaning that a radical change will occur in the role of the infantry soldier, but that the method of employment of the infantry, its fighting techniques, will be reexamined in the light of modern warfare conditions. I might add, Mr. Speaker, that the role and use of the armed services is under periodic review, and the review that is being undertaken this coming week is not out of the ordinary.


May I ask
a supplementary question. Has the department received a report from the infantry corps conference, which I understand is taking place?


The conference referred to is to start on January 24, so we could hardly expect a report as yet.


On the orders of the day:
I should
like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the fact that the government of Manitoba is preparing its budget, can the minister state whether or not any changes are contemplated in the fiscal arrangements for the current fiscal year?


Mr. Speaker, this would involve government policy, and this is not the time to make any announcement.


You have no policy.


On the orders of the day:
May I
direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the serious unemployment situation, can the minister inform the house how many cargo-bearing trips Canadian National

Inquiries of the Ministry (West Indies) steamships have made since the registry was transferred to Trinidad some two and a half months ago?


Mr. Speaker, I think that question was silly, and it answers itself.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. This question was asked in all seriousness, in order to determine whether the minister is going to do anything about getting Canadian National steamships back on the water.


It is still silly.


Mr. Speaker, in my first answer I was referring to the fact that the hon. member knows quite well that Canadian National (West Indies) steamships have not sailed from the port of Halifax. He knows that as well as every other member of the house does. The question of returning the ships to service is a matter to be decided by the management of Canadian National Steamships, not the government.


On a question of privilege-


Sit down.


-the minister has made no statement to the house to let us know what Canadian National Steamships are going to do.


Order. Sit down.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on January 15 the hon. member for Drummond-Arthabaska asked me this question:
Has the minister received a request from the city of Victoriaville for a grant for the construction of a protection wall? If so, is the minister favourable to such grant, and when might it be expected?
The answer is that no such request had been received when the hon. member asked his question, but one came in the next day. We will be very glad to investigate the situation, but we cannot meet these requests quite that quickly.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State. At the beginning

of the session we were informed that a committee of the house was studying the problem of simultaneous translation in this house. Can a report be given on this study?


May I inform the hon. member that, as I said on a previous occasion, the matter is one that is under study by His Honour the Speaker. When he has a report to make to the house, I am sure it will be made.


The house resumed, from Tuesday, January 14, consideration of the motion of Mr. Hark-ness for the second reading of Bill No. 237, to provide for the stabilization of the prices of agricultural commodities, and the amendment thereto of Mr. McCullough.
Mr. Speaker, when I opened my talk on this bill on Tuesday, I was attempting to convey the feelings of western farmers in particular toward Bill No. 237. The Moose Jaw city council has passed resolutions supporting the farmers in their fight for a better deal for agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture was quick to protest that the resolution I had submitted did not deal directly with this bill. I suggest that the farmers are trying to find a way out of their dilemma, brought on not by their own acts but by the lackadaisical attitude of the federal government in the past, and that this bill does not indicate any hope to lead them from the wilderness.
I hope the minister will allow me to present a second resolution which was passed unanimously by the city council of my home town. It deals with the matter under debate, in that the resolution urges immediate action by the federal government to implement policies along the lines indicated by the Saskatchewan royal commission on agriculture and rural life with particular reference to price supports for all agricultural products, based upon parity and utilizing deficiency payments. The resolution also urges a comprehensive system of forward pricing and an integrated national credit program designed to meet the needs of agriculture, as well as a program of crop insurance and an improvement in productive resources in agriculture.
From many parts of the Moose Jaw-Lake Centre constituency I have reports that farmers are still able to deliver only the unit of 300 bushels and a 1-bushel quota. Other places have the unit and a 3-bushel quota. I have written to the Minister of Trade and

Commerce on this continuing inequality. In addition, the box car situation is being brought to the attention of the government daily. All these things should point up to this government the fact that the farmers are desperate.
While I was home for the Christmas recess five resolutions were passed at a meeting of farmers and business men in the city of Moose Jaw. The meeting asked that the price support formula be applied to more than just the top grades of agricultural products. One resolution asked for deficiency payments for wheat, oats and barley; another asked for the two-price system for wheat marketing and a long-term credit plan for young farmers similar to the Veterans' Land Act assistance. Another resolution opposed the recent increase in freight rates.
I submit, Mr. Speaker, that all these things are part of the continuing pressure that needs to be brought to the attention of the government because of the prevailing feeling of the inadequacy of this farm prices support bill. They do not feel that the presentation of this bill is carrying out the mandate that was given the government last June 10. The farmers of western Canada ran Right Hon. C. D. Howe out of meetings in the west, and they will run this government out in the same manner if this bill is the kind of fulfilment they give of their election promises. This is not a progressive step to aid the Canadian farmer. To me it appears to come from befuddled minds that have no hope of solving the problems of Canadian agriculture.
I am told that many farmers are having to take the course of bartering wheat for their everyday necessities, and having to accept sacrifice prices for that wheat in order to live. If this proposal is the answer to the promises made to the farmers of western Canada I would suggest that both the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources and the Minister of Agriculture should immediately admit that they have no hope of fulfilling their election promises and should resign their posts. They are ignoring the trust given them when they were elected, that they would carry out the wishes of their constituents.
We have heard for years now that the answers to the problems of the farmers is parity of prices. To my mind this proposal suggests that the farmers accept 60 per cent of parity. In other words our farmers are expected to work year in and year out at a 40 per cent loss, while profits to the favoured few continue at their record heights.
The last bureau of statistics report indicates that food prices have declined, showing that the living costs are held down by low farm
Agricultural Products-Price Stabilization prices. The Minister of Finance suggested that inflation has been checked. We suggest if it has been checked it is because the return the farmer is getting for his produce is still declining. It is hard to understand how the Minister of Agriculture can defend his statement that farm prices are not declining when we have his own government figures to show that such is not the case.
The Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources was recently in western Canada on a political tour. He called the opposition in this house capricious and vicious. I say this bill is capricious, vicious and frivolous. It attempts to do nothing; in fact it promises to make the farmers worse off than they were even under the former Liberal regime. The Liberals attempted to tell the farmers that they never had it so good. This proposed legislation adds insult to injury and tells them they can expect absolutely less than nothing from the Tories. No wonder the government were reticent in bringing this bill before the house. No wonder they obstructed attempts of the C.C.F. to discuss the precarious position of the farmers. This is their answer; they will do nothing.
I suggest that the hon. member for Qu'Ap-pelle, the minister who went to Saskatchewan a few weeks ago on his tour, was misleading his audiences into a belief that this government was going to do something long promised, long expected, to assist our constituents. I wish to quote from a newspaper story published on December 6 in the Regina Leader-Post, in which the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources was reported to have said the following:
"The fundamental aim of your government is an attempt to provide a fair share of the national income for agriculture," he said.
He admitted he knew what was in the bill but said he was not free to reveal anything it dealt with. He did say, however, the program of the government has a series of basic agricultural reforms it believes are necessary.
"Not only does the farmer need support prices that enable him to meet in some measure his costs of production, but at the same time provides a rock-bottom guarantee that the price will not fall below a level that will put him in a position that he faced in the '30's" . . .
The government is determined to work with farm producers to arrive at its farm policies as it had in providing for cash advances, Mr. Hamilton said.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, may I say that there appears to be a new order in control in Ottawa, all right, and it appears that the atmosphere is permeating all through these buildings. Recently when ordering in the parliamentary restaurant I was asked by the waitress if I would like soup. I inquired as to what kind of soup it was. Her reply was, "It's bean soup, without the beans". Today we have before us, a farm prices support

Agricultural Products-Price Stabilization bill without any price support. We take it that this bill is Tory soup, without any substance and, in fact, no soup.


Mr. Speaker, the bill before us which provides for the stabilization of agricultural commodities has received more publicity than any other measure since the June 10 election. At least that has been the case in all the agricultural communities. It was supposed to have been the trump card or the ace in the hole of the entire Conservative platform. It was claimed that when the bill was enacted it would become the bill of rights for the farm people of Canada.
I, as a farmer, and realizing only too well the problems faced by the farm people, was hoping that at least some of these claims would be true. I was hoping that the resolutions on the price support policy passed at the F.U.A. convention in Edmonton on December 9-13, 1957, would be incorporated in this bill. The minister himself, when introducing this piece of legislation, at the resolution stage had this to say, as found at page 2186 of Hansard:
This is a far-reaching and important piece of legislation, perhaps the most important, in its implications, in its expected results for agriculture and its effect on the general economy, that has been considered by the Canadian parliament for many years. I believe this legislation will give to our farmers a much greater degree of security than they have ever enjoyed in our history-
And so on.
The bill began with great expectations of giving the farmer a fair deal. However, this did not last for very long. The longer the minister spoke the more he took away, so that by the time he had finished one realized that we were getting something which would be a lot less than we actually had even under the old Agricultural Prices Support Act. It was severely criticized by the members of our group, by the C.C.F. members and others. It was opposed by the farm unions, the Canadian Federation of Agriculture, the interprovincial farm union council. I think someone called it a great disappointment. Some hon. members referred to it as a monstrosity, and I believe somebody else said it was so much garbage on the farmers' doorstep.
I did hope that all this talk of how much this bill was going to do for the farmers was not just so much eyewash but that it would have some real meat in it, that it would give some really solid help to the agricultural industry, that it would be something for the farmer to fall back on and to depend upon.
The efforts of this opposition did bring about changes. The Minister of Agriculture, in introducing second reading of the bill, did

let it be known that when this bill came before the committee of the whole he would propose five amendments to it. With the unanimous consent of the house, and in order to speed up passage of the bill and to get down to the true meaning of it, these amendments were permitted to be discussed and incorporated in the bill before reaching the committee stage. The result of all this is that we now have a reprint of the original bill with the amendments added, but it is still known as Bill No. 237.
These five amendments alone, even though the general principle has not been changed, serve to prove that the original bill was no more than the minister merely trying to palm off on the agricultural industry what I would say is nothing more than an old windblown horse. By merely adding amendments to the original bill with no change in the principle it is no more than brushing the old horse's coat and adding a few ribbons to its tail. We nevertheless still have the old windblown horse. What we actually need is a bill which is good and sound, something the farmer can go to work on, something that will stand pressure when it does come through.
We have had a preamble added; we also have had the base period changed from three to ten years. If I may take the privilege for a moment, as has been done by the minister himself and by some other members, I would like to refer to at least one or two of these little amendments, first making brief reference to section 7, subsection (1), which I feel constitutes the key to the whole bill and brings up the question of base prices, floor prices and guaranteed prescribed prices as proposed in this legislation.
Although the amendment clarifies the original concept of the bill, it serves at the same time to indicate how ridiculous are some of the clauses, and it also shows how far removed this legislation is from the actual requests of the farm people made through the farm organizations, and how far it is removed from the campaign promises. The latter part of this clause, about half way down, says that it-referring of course to the duties of the board-shall take such actions and make such recommendations as are necessary to ensure that the prescribed price for an agricultural commodity in effect from time to time shall bear a fair relationship to the base price for such commodities. I have never in my life been able to figure out how one is able to take a percentage of something and say this will bear a fair relationship to the same thing out of which you have taken the percentage.

If we have a look at the base price, it has been previously described as the average of the preceding three years in any given period for any given product. The product might be butter, pork, eggs or beef. Let us say the area is Edmonton, where a variety of products have been sold at a variety of prices in the last three years. We would then have the average and that would be the base price, but since the amendments were permitted the 3-year moving period has been changed to a 10-year moving period.
This gives the farmers an edge at the present time, by taking advantage of the higher prices of 1948, 1949, 1950 and 1951. The basic principles, however, have not been changed. In view of the present trend of prices for agricultural commodities, which are continually declining, it very simply means that the base would be lowered, through the years, merely slower than the base price would have been lowered in a 3-year period.
Furthermore, this would mean that in the event of more prosperous times for our economy, if some unforeseen circumstances may develop whereby our agricultural industry is unable to keep pace with other industries, then the delays under this system would make things so slow that there literally would be no support or help for the farm industry in keeping pace with other industries.
This bill perhaps was not meant to be related to the economy of other industries. It does not directly tie in the agricultural industry with parity or cost of production. Although cost of production is mentioned in the	preamble,	it	is in	no	way	definitely incorporated in the bill itself. The	minister	has told	us	that	the
agricultural stabilization board shall keep the cost of production in mind in arriving at the prescribed price, but he has also let it be known that the board shall keep at least 10 other factors in mind when arriving at the prescribed price for any commodity.
I cannot help but wonder just how literally we can take his statements, ev