Thursday, August 14, 1958
Eleventh and twelfth reports of standing committee on miscellaneous private bills.- Mr. McCleave.
Ninth report of the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines.-Mr. Fraser.
Mr. Speaker, further to the statement made by the Prime Minister in the house yesterday, I should like to make a few comments on the report of the United Nations scientific committee on the effects of atomic radiation which, as you know, was made public last Sunday. This report is of the greatest concern to me as Minister of National Health and Welfare, dealing as it does with matters of importance to the health of the people of Canada.
A great deal of interest has already been expressed in some of the conclusions of the report, and I should like to read one paragraph in particular of the general conclusions:
The exposure of mankind to ionizing radiation at present arises mainly from natural sources, from medical and industrial procedures, and from environmental contamination due to nuclear explosions. The industrial, research and medical applications expose only part of the population while natural sources and environmental sources expose the whole population. The artificial sources to which man is exposed during his work in industry and in scientific research are of value in science and technology. Their use is controllable, and exposures can be reduced by perfecting protection and safety techniques. All applications of X-rays and radioactive isotopes used in medicine for diagnostic purposes and for radiation therapy are for the benefit of mankind and can be controlled. Radioactive contamination of the environment resulting from explosions of nuclear weapons constitutes a growing increment to world-wide radiation levels. This involves new and largely unknown hazards to present and future populations: these hazards, by their very nature, are beyond the control of the exposed persons. The committee concludes that all steps designed to minimize irradiation of human populations will act to the benefit of human health. Such steps include the avoidance of unnecessary exposure resulting from medical, industrial and other procedures for peaceful uses on the one hand and the cessation of contamination of the environment by explosion of 57071-3-222
nuclear weapons on the other. The committee is aware that considerations involving effective control of all these sources of radiation involve national and international decisions which lie outside the scope of its work.
These conclusions were based on scientific information obtained from world-wide sources and Canada, as a member of the 15-nation committee, subscribed to the report as a whole. Technical information available to the government does not lead it to dissent from the above conclusions.
The report observes that present information about radiation levels and effects is inadequate for an accurate evaluation of all hazards. Notwithstanding this great uncertainty it is evident that hazards to health cannot be dismissed. On the other hand, in the determination of government policy concerning the use of radiation sources for various purposes, it is proper that the health hazard should be considered in the light of all other pertinent factors.
The United Nations committee has pointed out that industrial, research and medical uses of radiation are controllable by means of appropriate protection and safety techniques. My department has been active in radiation protection since 1949, when a section that is now known as the radiation protection division was set up. This division provides technical advice on the health and safety aspects of the industrial, research and medical uses of radioisotopes and X-rays. In this regard it works closely with the atomic energy control board and other agencies concerned with this matter.
For a number of years the division has also carried out measurements and studies concerned with the possible effects on health of environmental radiation exposures. Further programs of measurements and biological studies are planned with the aim of providing answers to some of the major gaps in our knowledge concerning the biological effects of radiation.
The importance of scientific research and the collection of information on the effects of radiation have been clearly pointed out by the United Nations scientific committee. With particular reference to this subject the committee, on the basis of scientific experience, "confidently expects that continuing research on an increasing Scale will furnish the knowledge urgently needed to master those risks which we know to be associated with

Effects of Atomic Radiation the development and scope of the uses of nuclear energy for the welfare of mankind."
I can assure hon. members that this government will continue to emphasize and support a progressive program of radiation protection in Canada.


The minister's report on this matter, based upon the report of the United Nations scientific committee, emphasizes its vital importance. The United Nations report points out what we are sometimes prone to forget that sources of radiation danger can lie in civilian activities as well as in the explosion of nuclear weapons. While perhaps these non-military activities are dangerous and do not easily lend themselves to international control, or in some cases to national control, nevertheless we can certainly do something on an international basis about the danger from nuclear explosions, as was pointed out by the Prime Minister yesterday.
The report of the minister also emphasized once again the necessity of putting an end to tests of nuclear weapons of mass destruction. While the Prime Minister quite rightly said yesterday that there should be developed international machinery for the enforcement of such a ban and the detection of violations, and while the conference now proceeding at Geneva has apparently shown that such an end could be achieved without too much difficulty by means of international agreement, nevertheless if we cannot get an international agreement of that kind, and if this conference at Geneva also shows-as has been indicated by experts in the United States and other countries-that no country could violate a ban of this kind without that violation being detected by national mechanisms in other countries, then bearing in mind that with all these implications a violation could not take place without detection, we should perhaps give consideration to the banning of tests of this kind at least for a period of time even if we do not have a system of international inspection.


I think the comprehensive statement of the Minister of National Health and Welfare points up very vividly and very accurately the great danger to the world of a continuing build-up of atomic radiation. While most of us think of atomic explosions and the danger they constitute as something in the nature of a sudden calamity for the people of the world, nevertheless such a calamity might be just as serious if it results from a continued buildup of atomic radiation.
(Mr. Monteith (Perth).]

The Prime Minister said yesterday that the U.S.S.R. had announced it was ending its series of atomic tests. This announcement followed a large number of such tests made within the U.S.S.R. and therefore, the Prime Minister said, this is a very convenient time for the U.S.S.R. to end its own tests. This is no doubt correct and is one of the major reasons why the U.S.S.R. has decided to cease tests at this time. Even assuming that to be the fact, which no doubt is the case, it would seem to me that the western world could now take a forward step by a real act of faith, namely announcing that the west, too, will cease nuclear tests in the hope that this would mean a permanent end to nuclear explosions.
I think the statement made by the Leader of the Opposition was very significant, and I hope it will be taken up by Canada at the United Nations and elsewhere. We in the C.C.F. say to the Leader of the Opposition: we welcome the support you are now giving to the stand which the C.C.F. has taken for some considerable time, that nuclear tests should be ended forthwith.


that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient, in the proposed measure to amend the Veterans Insurance Act, Bill C-34, now before the house, that clause 1 be deleted and that the following be substituted therefor:
1. (1) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (1) of section 3 of the Veterans Insurance Act are repealed and the following substituted therefor:
"(a) with a veteran, at any time on or before the 30th day of September, 1962; or
(b) with any of the following persons, at any time on or before the 30th day of September, 1962,
(i)	the widow or widower of a veteran, if the minister has not entered into a contract of insurance with the veteran,
(ii)	the widow or widower of a person who died on service during the war,
(iii)	a member of the regular forces who has not been released from such forces and who was engaged in service during the war,
(iv)	a merchant seaman who received or was eligible to receive a bonus pursuant to the merchant seamen special bonus order, or a seaman who received or was eligible to receive a war service bonus pursuant to the merchant seamen war service bonus order, 1944,
and
(v)	any other person who is, under the Pension Act, in receipt of a disability pension relating to the war."


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Again I note in today's Votes and Proceedings notice of a measure appearing in the name of the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys which I do not think was mentioned by the Prime Minister when we discussed these things in the house some time ago. In replying to me the other day he said he had made one omission. This appears to be a second omission. May I ask if this is now all the legislation we will have between now and the end of the session?


Mr. Speaker, I note the remarks of the hon. gentleman. In so far as this amendment to the Maritime Coal Production Assistance Act is concerned, it is absolutely necessary if what was undertaken earlier and brought to the attention of the house is to be carried out. It is one of those things which will not bring about a measure of controversial debate, as I understand it, and I am sure that the hon. gentleman, representing the official opposition, would be the last to desire that action in this regard should be neglected at this session. I take it that would be his attitude.
With regard to any further legislation, I have referred to the probabilities in connection with some legislation which might be necessary under the agricultural program. I am sure that in this regard, there being no serious controversial issues to be raised, the hon. gentleman, representing the opposition, would be the last to desire to do anything to prevent the introduction of agricultural legislation which would be of benefit to this country, and which must necessarily receive attention at this session if it is to be appropriately applied within the next few months. I share with him the desire of hon. members to have a completion of the program, but when a government is desirous of being of assistance in meeting the needs of Canadians as a whole, matters necessarily arise that have to be brought in at the last moment. I reiterate what I stated the other day, that I am hopeful that the program as set forth is final.


It is being added to
continually.


I will not be bound, however, to refuse to consider the introduction of measures which even at the last moment, 57071-3-222J
Inquiries of the Ministry by reason of the circumstances arising between now and the conclusion of the session, might be considered necessary for the welfare of the people of Canada. I know my hon. friend, within those limitations, would certainly agree with the view I have expressed.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure my friend the hon. member for Laurier, as the Prime Minister indicated, would be the last to object to, obstruct or delay legislation which in the words of the Prime Minister is for the welfare of the people of Canada. That, Mr. Speaker, was not the point he was trying to make. It was that in the interests of minimizing obstruction and delay we should know well in advance, especially in the closing days of the session, what legislation is to be introduced. We had been told the other day that all the legislation was on the order paper. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to keep this in mind, that if we want to get this legislation through quickly for the benefit of the people of Canada it is incumbent on the government, especially at this time in the session, to let us know what is coming up. At the present time there seems to be about these matters, as far as the Prime Minister's statements are concerned, what I might call a continuous finality.


Mr. Speaker, I think the statement of the Prime Minister is most encouraging, that even after we have had a final resume of the legislation that is forthcoming we shall have the opportunity of dealing with other very beneficial legislation. Since the Prime Minister has emphasized the agricultural legislation that is about to be introduced, I wonder if he could satisfy the curiosity of the house by saying whether this includes deficiency payments, and what in general is contained in the legislation. I am sure the Prime Minister will find that the C.C.F. group, as usual, will facilitate the passage in this house of all worth-while legislation.


Oh, oh. Obstructionists.


Mr. Speaker, I like the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition. Everything should be done to minimize what he called obstruction. I certainly think that is a laudable purpose and a highly desirable end. Anything I can do to minimize obstruction from the other side will certainly be done, because there is none from this side.


The Prime Minister should attend the house.


He has not had his loudspeaker on.

Inquiries of the Ministry


As to the statement of the hon. member for Assiniboia, I am not going to read into the record a report that he allegedly gave to Mr. Robert Moon on August 8 to the effect that as far as this government was concerned it was apparently not bringing in any agricultural legislation, having an undesirable end in view in taking that step. I will not read that into the record because I cannot accept such words as appear in the Regina Leader-Post, and attributed as a direct quotation by the hon. gentleman, as representative of his views. However, in so far as the agricultural program is concerned, I assure the hon. gentleman that the matter is receiving continual consideration. As a matter of fact, the absence of the minister from the house in the last two, three or four days has been in consequence of very serious and lengthy consideration of such proposals as will be beneficial not only to agriculture but to Canadians generally.


There was some important business in the house as well.


Mr. Speaker, I am glad to see my hon. friend's interest in that regard.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State for External Affairs may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the British admiralty's recent decision to augment its fishery protection squadron of two frigates and two minesweepers as a precaution against incidents with Icelanders who intend to enforce the extension of their territorial waters from 4 miles to 12 miles as from September 1, and in view of the Prime Minister's previous statement to the effect that his government was proposing that national jurisdiction be extended 12 miles offshore only in regard to fisheries matters, can the Prime Minister inform the house what action, if any, has been taken by the Canadian government to approve or support Iceland's decision or to protest against this alleged violation of the international law of the sea?


Mr. Speaker, it is very obvious that this is not a question for the orders of the day. It is a very lengthy question and one that would require an equally lengthy answer. I submit it is not one that comes within the purview of the orders of the day.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the Prime Minister inform the house whether any action has been taken by the government to protest against Iceland's decision?


The question seems to be a familiar one. It seems to me I have dealt with it twice before during this session. Whether it is limited to any action since the question was last asked I do not know. If so, I suppose it would be in order.


On that point, Mr. Speaker, only this morning there appeared in the press a report to the effect that the United Kingdom and certain other members of NATO were going to take action to protect their fishing vessels inside an area which is now claimed by Iceland as territorial waters. This is a matter of great importance which I think should be occupying the attention of the government and which should be brought before the NATO council at its next session.


Mr. Speaker, I can say that this matter has been before NATO, and the hon. member is fully aware of that fact.


This is a new development.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I should like to direct to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister now in a position to say whether or not an interim report will be made by the Borden commission dealing with petroleum and natural gas and what action, if any, may arise from this report?


Mr. Speaker, in so far as the latter part of the question is concerned I know the hon. gentleman does not expect an answer now. As to the first part of his question, namely when an interim report may be expected from the Borden commission, I had the chairman communicated with and he advised, as he said at the time of the adjournment of the sittings of the commission, that it is the intention of the commission to make an interim or preliminary report with respect to certain aspects of the gas and oil industry. On that occasion-that was July 22-he was unable to state exactly when the report could be expected. However, he said that it will require a great deal of consideration and deliberation and that he is hopeful

that early in October he will be in a position, with the members of the commission, to make that interim report.
That being so, my hon. friend will understand that it is impossible to say what action will be taken because the report will not be available, even with the greatest diligence on the part of the members of the commission, before that date and may even be a month later.


I appreciate the Prime Minister's report to the house. Am I to take it from his report that any further consideration of the development of the Montreal market for western oil will be delayed or will wait until after this very important report has been received?


In so far as the Montreal market is concerned, private interests are giving a great deal of attention to that matter. Naturally it is being considered also by the government. When I say that I do not want to give any indication that what is being considered will be answered in the affirmative, but simply that the matter is receiving consideration, and the report from the royal commission no doubt will be helpful in the determination of that and other problems.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries. In view of the present shortage of bait in Newfoundland for Newfoundland fishermen, I would be grateful if the minister would advise whether or not his department has taken any steps to relieve the situation.


I am a little confused by the situation, not by the question, since the hon. member for St. John's East gave me notice of his intention to ask an identical question, and the hon. member for Trinity-Conception has asked it. This, however, indicates the interest of the people of Newfoundland in the Newfoundland fisheries, and their concern with the bait shortage.
This is something of which my department is very much aware, and the difficulty arises because of the failure of the squid fishery this year. I might say that during last winter the department's bait service froze more herring bait than ever before, but these stocks are now almost exhausted and a fairly critical situation has arisen.
The department, however, has embarked on a serious attempt to relieve the situation. For example, we have two helicopters under
Inquiries of the Ministry charter to the department scouting for squid.
I am happy to say that a certain amount of squid has just now been obtained, about 30,000 pounds, and it will be delivered very shortly to the areas where it is most urgently needed. We hope to augment this supply. In addition we have obtained 150,000 pounds of herring in the Yarmouth area, which will be delivered to the bait depots in Newfoundland as quickly as we can get suitable transportation for it. For the time being we have temporarily suspended the sale of bait to foreign fishing vessels, and we have also done a number of other things which I do not think I should take up the time of the house by enumerating, but if any hon. member is especially concerned and would be interested in securing more details I would be happy to give them to him privately.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture, or in his absence to the minister in charge. Today the Toronto Globe and Mail reports that the Niagara peninsula growers have 1,000 tons of surplus cherries as a result, according to the secretary of the marketing board, of a recent large volume of imports at low prices. Does the government intend to give any help to these fruit growers?


I shall bring this question to the attention of the Minister of Agriculture on his return.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Justice. Has the minister received from members of the Richelieu Bar Association, a request for the establishment of a bankruptcy registry and a bankruptcy court at the seats of the judicial districts of Richelieu, Beauharnois, d'Iberville and St. Hyacinthe? If so, may we hope that such bankruptcy registries and bankruptcy courts will be established shortly?


Mr. Speaker, I just received notice of this question. I shall look into the matter and give the hon. member an answer tomorrow.
3506	HOUSE OF
Supply-Northern Affairs
(Text):


"THE nation's business"
On the orders of the day:
Some days ago I asked the Minister of National Revenue if he would make an inquiry of the C.B.C. I wonder if he has the answer.


I have not, Mr. Speaker, at the moment. I only returned last night, but I will have the answer to the question tomorrow.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Sevigny in the chair.
department of northern affairs and
NATIONAL RESOURCES 266. Departmental administration, $731,410.


Last night I had been discussing jurisdictional difficulties in connection with conservation programs because of provincial jurisdiction in those areas over our natural resources. Many hon. members in this house know there are private groups which are endeavouring to carry out conservation projects in their own provinces and at their own expense. In western Canada we have game and fish associations which are actively trying their best, without much help from the federal government, to carry on conservation projects. These projects have had a great effect in our part of the country particularly because the game and fish are a great tourist attraction and consequently mean a great deal to our provincial treasuries in so far as the tourist dollar is concerned.
It is my understanding that for the past two years there has been a movement under way to establish a national wildlife conservation foundation. I believe the purpose and scope of this foundation has aroused widespread public support, and many prominent Canadians are giving it their whole-hearted backing. I believe the minister of northern affairs already has some knowledge of this movement.
It seems to me that a national conservation foundation, supported financially by this government and by private enterprise, could do for Canada what similar bodies are doing for other countries, and if truly national in its representation could offer logical and much 

needed means of bridging the gap between the efforts of federal and provincial governments and private bodies concerned in the field of wildlife management.
I understand that the architects of this plan have drafted a constitution which would guarantee that the proposed foundation would not infringe on the rights, or overlap the functions, of any existing agency, but that it would indeed be the vehicle for much needed financial assistance to all existing programs, provincial and private; would offer scholarship within the whole broad scope of resource management; would support scientific research, especially through universities, and would institute what is today so badly needed, namely a wildlife management and national conservation information service.
I hope at the appropriate time the government will give very serious consideration to the proposal to be put forward for the establishment of this independent foundation. I believe that government support would immediately result in the contribution by private enterprise in all parts of Canada, and on a continuing basis, of possibly hundreds of thousands and perhaps even million of dollars to the cause of resource conservation, and the development and utilization of those resources.


I should like to congratulate the chairman of the committee which considered the estimates of this department. I was able to take part in the committee, in the forestry aspect. I was quite impressed with the interest of the committee, which seemed to be generated to quite an extent by the very open attitude of the chairman. The forestry aspect of the department is what interests me most, naturally, because forestry bulks so large in our particular area and I feel it is by far the most important. The one warning I should like to give to the minister is that I do not think he should be lured away by the northern aspect of his department as to forget the really fundamental role his department should be playing in forestry matters. As he knows, that is not really a northern problem so much as one that runs in the lower part of Canada, thinking in terms of north and south.
I welcome very much the fact that we have a new minister; not so much in political terms, but I felt it was time this department had new leadership with a new approach. I know from conversation with the minister that he is seriously interested in forestry. I was very pleased to see the announcement he made at Yorkton that he was calling the provincial ministers concerned with these matters together sometime in the near future to go into them.

A few of the previous speakers in the debate have emphasized conservation. I do not want to be critical of their statements or what they are trying to put over. Generally it is agreeable, but I should like to point out to them that for 70 or 80 years we have had concern in Canada for conservation. We had very large conservation meetings even before the first world war. One of the largest was in Ottawa in 1911. There has been amongst enlightened people in Canada a continuous concern with conservation. I think one of the difficulties is that maybe we have too many conferences on conservation, too much general discussion on it, and not enough particularized work.
I want to bring to the minister's attention some statements by one who first began service with the dominion government, in the forestry service, away back in the first decade of this century. He is now one of Canada's better known millionaires. I refer to H. R. MacMillan, at one time a forestry officer with the Canadian government. Last year Mr. MacMillan, to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the forestry profession in Canada, gave a speech at the University of Toronto. He made a number of very interesting points that are exceptionally apt for political consideration. He began with this theme with which I agree most heartily; that our tremendous concern with agriculture over the centuries since Canada got under way has made us lose sight of the fact that equally or even more important aspects of our economy and our industry have been neglected.
I believe, and I think this is implicit in what Mr. MacMillan said, that the agricultural interests have been able to apply better and more effective political pressure. Mr. MacMillan said:
Because our people are not well informed, they lack of sense of responsibility towards the present and the next forest crops. This must be the reason why the forest industry alone of the great national basic industries receives no subsidies (it seeks none), and is starved of the reinvestment necessary to maintain its productivity, although yearly the forest crop, as compared with annual production from either agriculture or mining, pays out the most wages, produces a greater total buying power, contributes vastly more to a favourable trade balance, supports the greatest export trade, and begets directly and indirectly the largest tax revenue. Our national government spends each year approximately-[DOT]
I should like the minister to note this:
"On forest administration and research $6,000,000.
On mining administration and research and subsidy, $25,000,000.
On agricultural administration and research and subsidy, $80,000,000."
Supply-Northern Affairs
Then he went on to say:
The national and provincial governments together receive a $230 million annual revenue from agriculture, on which they spend $150 million; from forests they receive $275 million-
In other words, $45 million more.
-of which they spend a combined total of $45 million on administration and investment in the next crop. Such lack of foresight is equivalent to eating the seed corn.
This pattern of expenditure appears to depart by a wide margin from a policy of giving attention proportionate to the public interests concerned.
That is what I am hoping from this particular minister in the leadership that he is able to give, to try to redress this balance. No matter what your economic outlook, you realize that when you have an industry there has to be a fall-back for investment in order to keep the expansion going, and especially with a renewable resource in order to keep that resource coming in the years ahead. I suggest that these figures supplied by Mr. MacMillan indicates that this has not been done.
It has already been mentioned that there is a constitutional problem. The minister, from his evidence before the committee, is very much aware of this. He knows he cannot dictate to the provinces. But I suggest that almost every province in Canada is aware of the fact that the federal government takes in a tremendous amount from the forest industry in taxation and in comparison gives very little back. I think every province is anxious to get more back. The question is, what are you going to do?
Something else I should like to bring to the attention of the minister is some evidence that was given before the committee on land use in the other place. If you look at the annual report on forest research for the year ending March, 1957 you will find that one of the leading officers in silviculture research is Mr. W. G. E. Brown. Mr. W. G. E. Brown is no longer with the government. He has joined Spartan Air Services Limited in his capacity as survey specialist. He is considered by many people to be the top expert in this field in the country. I should just like to bring to the minister's attention what this specialist gave as his reason for getting out of the government service, because this is where I hope this minister is going to give leadership. Mr. Brown said:
I was associated on forest and soil surveys, and land use surveys from 1947 to 1951 with Mr. Hills of the Ontario department of lands and forests; from 1951 to 1956, I was chief soil and site officer for the federal forestry branch, covering all of Canada. In both cases I resigned chiefly because of the difficulties encountered between departments in the federal government, between dominion and provincial government agencies, and between industry-
3508	HOUSE OF
Supply-Northern Affairs
He went on to state the difficulties and underline all the overlapping and the failure to get any lead on this whole question of land use as it relates to geology, soil, forest coverage and so on; a tremendous theory. I think this criticism by one of the most brilliant men in his field in Canada, who had to get out of both the provincial and federal governments because he was so disturbed over the lack of co-operation and his general feeling that he was getting nowhere, is a very severe criticism of the role which the department, especially in so far as its forestry activities are concerned, has been playing.
It was very pleasing to me, and I am sure it will be very pleasing to the forest industry as a whole, to read the recommendation made by the committee in connection with forestry. There are two sentences appearing at page 264 of Votes and Proceedings which I would like to read. They are as follows:
Your committee recommends that increased attention be given to the compilation of material on water resources and to their multiple use, and, in the case of forestry, to forest research. Your committee also noted the increased emphasis being given in the United States to forest products research and recommends that the government give consideration to increased support of that activity in Canada.
Let us see that increased support given with greater and more energetic leadership, and a manifestation of the feeling that the minister and his department must get out and take the lead in this matter.
There are quite a number of ways in which forest research can operate at the present time, and I think the minister knows from the evidence given before the committee that his forest products research laboratories are understaffed. I was told of a case the day before yesterday in which a firm had sent a 4 X 4 x A plywood sheet to be tested last November but had still not received the results of the test. In the United States tests can be made by private laboratories and, as a consequence of the certificate given by the scientists concerned, the particular material can be accepted by federal housing authorities.
If we are going to be in the business of testing, and I am sure the federal laboratories are a worthy venture, then I think there is very little excuse for this sort of thing. We are aware that the weakness is probably the lack of staff, and I would like to repeat some suggestions I made in committee. The first is to clear up this staff question in the forest products laboratory right now and, if necessary, have crash sessions with the civil service commission. If men with Ph.D.'s and many years of experience are getting only $6,000, $7,000 and $8,000 in these fields, and


are handicapped by lack of staff to help them, then I think we have a very poor situation and I would be very interested to know more about the morale in this area.
One of the generalizations I attempted to make was that the situation in the west coast laboratory is much happier than that in the Ottawa laboratory, and there is certainly a feeling that the laboratory there is producing more in relation to industrial knowledge than is being done in Ottawa. One of the aspects of forest products research in relation to integrated production is that in eastern Canada our pulp operations still are not using enough of the hardwood species such as birch and poplar, and what we need are more establishments to turn out veneers and core stock.
This integration is not only important from the point of view of economics; it is desperately important so far as the clearing off of what have been called weed species is concerned and improving to a much greater extent the silviculture. Instead of just going in and taking out all the conifers, the development of veneer mills and plywood mills will enable us to get a really integrated operation which will clear off the total coverage. This will also give us much better control of regeneration, and I think this is one aspect of research which must be stepped up by the forest products, laboratories. Everything must be done which will further advance the veneer, core stock and plywood stock sector of the forest industry economy.
One of the things we have been doing in Canada is taking tremendous advantage of United States research. This is all to the good, but I wonder whether some sort of relationship could not be worked out between this country and the United States whereby our comparable problems could be considered jointly in order to give us an opportunity for more concentration, leaving greater scoDe for the United States to more specifically allocate their expenditures. In the United States government research laboratories undertake a great deal of work for industry on a contract basis, and I wonder if similar work could not be done in Canada if the terms were fair.
One of our major problems in forestry is that we have a very abnormal age distribution in most of our pulpwood limits. The minister knows the situation north of Kenora, where he has a summer home, and where hundreds of square miles are overmature and should be cut in the very near future. When they are cut, however, we will continue this pattern of abnormal age distribution, and this is one aspect of research with which I think the forestry branch should be far more concerned.

There is another aspect of research to which more attention should be given, and that is with respect to herbicides for brush control. I realize that private industry is doing a lot in this connection, but 1 think even more could be done. Further, I have in mind the Russian experiments to develop what they call living firebreaks by the use of plants which have a very high moisture content, and this is something which could be investigated with some intensity in Canada.
Forestry research shows slow progress in terms of conclusions. The minister was kind enough to provide me with a five-year progress report of R.C.17, which is a very intricate bit of research work. Many agencies have co-operated in this connection and the research work was carried out on one of the slopes of lake Superior. After five years the most discouraging thing, although perhaps a very proper thing from the scientific point of view, is the lack of recommendations.
There are two points mentioned which I would like to draw to the attention of the house, first that scarification does help to create good seed bed conditions, and the fact that herbicides used in certain ways do help to cut out countergrowth, which assists in the providing of regeneration for the conifers. There are, however, very few conclusions, and the difficulties with respect to forest research are all old ones. It is a real challenge to the administration to try to get some conclusions from the foresters.
I would like to mention to the minister two pulp and paper industries which are in juxtaposition in my own area and which have completely contradictory forest policies. Yet they are taking those policies from the point of view of their respective foresters, who have gone into the situation. One company believes that the whole future of the pulp and paper industry lies in the spruce forests, and they are therefore concentrating upon planting where regeneration is poor. They plant over 2 million trees a year and are making strenuous efforts to help natural regeneration and so bring back the limits to their former state. The second company, which is right next door with almost identical terrain, also measured in thousands of square miles, bases its whole forest policy upon the idea of cellulose per acre. This company says it does not matter a hoot about spruce and its longer fibres, but that the chemical engineer is now playing the operative role in the forest industry. He will clear up this whole problem for us, and he is already doing it and is enabling us to use hardwoods. They say, furthermore, that in the next decade or two the whole point of the matter will be cellulose per acre, and that the question of 57071-3-223
Supply-Northern Affairs the superior qualities of the spruce fibres for making newsprint and other pulp products will not be a factor at all.
Just that very dichotomy points up the magnitude of the forestry problem in determining what we are going to do with our forestry research. I have talked to a great many foresters and have had many contacts with them, and there is a feeling-and it is expressed by a former employee, Mr. Brown -that there is no leadership forthcoming from the federal government in this particular field. Whether or not there are constitutional problems, if we want to get anywhere in this field there has to be that leadership.
In other words there is a tremendous challenge to the minister and to his department. And this is not in the north. This is not Frobisher bay. This does not concern resources about which we know nothing. This relates to the breadbasket of this country, and I suggest to the minister that the breadbasket of this country is no longer on the prairies; it is in the boreal forests where we find our pulp and paper resources.


What does the hon. member for Assiniboia say to that?


He has just been complaining from behind. I do not mind somewhat overstating this point in relation to what the hon. member for Assiniboia tells me, but I think we have gone on long enough paying such marked attention to the agricultural interests, especially to the grain interests. It is not that there is anything wrong with that, but in the process we have lost sight of this forestry industry which has brought in even more revenue and which has even sharper problems.
I do not know whether one of the solutions would be to put in support prices for pulpwood-that is a question for the Minister of Agriculture to worry about-but I do know that one of the main problems is determining how the silviculture plan should be laid out and what guiding principles we should be following. This involves the department of the Minister of Finance, because the whole fiscal policy of the government in relation to the forest industry is in question.
As the minister is probably aware if he has read any of the representations from the industry, or even from the unions involved in the industry, this point was strikingly illustrated in the last few years when Ontario introduced a new logging tax. Immediately a howl went up from the pulp and paper interests. What did the premier of Ontario say? He said he had to get more

Supply-Northern Affairs revenue out of his forests because there was not enough money coming back from the federal government.
Well, that is fine; he recognized the problem and went out to get some more money. What did the head of the largest pulp and paper concern in this particular part of the country say? He was enraged by this and said, "We are going to have to cut down our research program. If the federal government and the provincial government refuse to get together and work out equitable taxation with us, why should we continue to make efforts to plan for the conservation of our forests and plow back money, if the fiscal policy is so bad?"
The evidence given by the head of the Canadian institute of foresters and by Major General Kennedy, who is one of Canada's most prominent foresters, was that the government needs to look closely at its whole fiscal policy in relation to the industry. The figures I read indicate that forestry is getting very little put back into it, either from the federal government or from the provincial governments, in relation to the taxation revenue. This being the case I think the industry is in a position to say to the federal and provincial governments, why are you not showing stronger leadership in research?
The final point I wish to make is this. I hope the minister does not go off down the path that so many ministers in the past have taken with regard to forestry, and become obsessed with firefighting or getting rid of the bugs we have in profusion in many of the forests. I suggest that fire protection and forest entomology are no longer the most important problems which concern the forest industries. Action must focus upon silviculture, and upon getting the crop back again.
I am not suggesting that the minister should abandon or even refrain from extending his fire protection program in co-operation with the provinces, but I should like to suggest that he work out some scheme of subsidizing experiments in controlled burning, because almost every good pulpwood forest we have in this country was formed as a result of forest fires. In other words I suggest we should, after proper preparation, set forest fires deliberately in order to make regeneration possible. This would require considerable expenditure on control measures, but it is a field where more research should be done.
I should like to conclude by saying to the minister that you have a real problem here and a wonderful opportunity for leadership. Don't go chasing off after northern affairs completely; don't go chasing the obsession of putting out forest fires and getting rid of the bugs. Go right after the whole problem


of silviculture, forest management and regeneration. I think the minister would then merit much greater thanks from the Canadian people than any of the previous ministers we have had in the department of northern affairs.


I welcome the opportunity of making some observations about the work of this very important department of government, though I may say that these observations will not include that particular branch of the department which has just been touched upon by the hon. member for Port Arthur. I say this not because I do not recognize the importance of that branch, but because there is no time to deal with all the various activities of the department which are involved in these estimates.
The hon. member who has just spoken said some laudatory things about the minister, and contrasted his activities and energy with those of his predecessor. I am not going to say anything which would deprecate the energy and drive-


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman, this is the second time within a week that the Leader of the Opposition has attributed things to me which I did not say. The first was in connection with Rhodes scholars. I was just making this point in connection with the change of leadership, that I think it is good to have new leadership-completely new thoughts. It was not a great reflection on the performance of the previous minister.


I will be glad to accept that correction. As far as the Rhodes scholarships are concerned, I do not think I did the hon. member an injustice in the remarks I made on a former occasion.
What the hon. member has now said is that it is a good thing to have a change of leadership. Perhaps I should point out that though there has been a change of leadership, energetic and determined leadership has been given to the work of this department over a good many years, since the second world war. It was in 1950, under the previous administration, that this separate department was set up.
It was then, I believe, the department of resources and development, and it was under the present minister's predecessor in the Liberal administration, Mr. Lesage, that the name of this department was changed to the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources. While a change in name may not in itself be of too much practical importance, and may have only symbolic significance, since that time, under Mr. Lesage, a great deal of energy and leadership has been given,

as indeed it was given by Mr. Lesage's predecessor, Mr. Winters, to the work of this very important department. When I say that I am not suggesting that the present minister is not showing energy and determination, because I know he is, and I also know something about his interest in northern development.
This is one aspect of the work of the department that I wish to talk about in particular, northern development. Those of us who heard the hon. member for Mackenzie River the other day must have been impressed by the very moving story he told concerning the tragedy which overtook 14 Eskimos in that part of our territory. We surely must have realized as that tragic tale unfolded that there is more to northern development than the development of the material resources of that part of the world. None of us can take very much satisfaction, and I am sure the minister takes no satisfaction, out of the development of these resources if we cannot at the same time develop our own sense of responsibility for looking after the indigenous inhabitants of that area in a way that will prevent this kind of tragedy occurring in the future. The Financial Post of August 2 carried an editorial dealing with development in the Arctic which included the following paragraph:
We have made enormous strides in seven years. We are building town sites, schools and airfields along the mainland and across the archipelago. We are taking care of 12,000 Eskimos and introducing them to the ways of civilization.
Unfortunately there were a few we were not able to take care of a short time ago. Our feeling of shock and regret-and that is too mild a word to use in connection with this tragic event-was well expressed in an editorial which appeared in the London Free Press of 