Mr. W. G. Dinsdale (Brandon-Souris) presented the first report of the standing committee on veterans affairs, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Mr. Speaker, unanimous consent is not given. We suggest that this motion should be placed on the order paper.
Motion stands.


Mr. Hayden Stanton (Leeds) presented the first report of the standing committee on agriculture and colonization, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Has the hon. gentleman the unanimous consent of the house to proceed with this motion?


No.
Motion stands.


that the first report of the standing committee on banking and commerce, presented to the house on Tuesday, June 17, 1958, be now concurred in.


Mr. Speaker, this motion provides for the committee to meet while the house is sitting, and similar motions will apply to other committees. We of the opposition want to be as co-operative and as constructive as possible in this matter. We realize that there is a great deal of work to be done and that there may be occasions, as there have been in the past, when committees will have to meet while the house is sitting. But surely, Mr. Speaker, that need has not yet been demonstrated, and until the occasion arises when the need is obvious we do not think a motion of this kind providing for this procedure should be passed.
We are especially worried about this matter, Mr. Speaker, because of the number of
committees that are being set up and the matters that are being referred to those committees. We share the worry which has been expressed in the house in previous sessions, notably by the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Macdonnell), about the inadvisability of taking matters from the house and committees of the house and referring them to standing committees to meet at the same time the house is in session. Therefore we hope the government will not proceed with this particular motion at this time.
As an indication of our anxiety in this matter, which seems to have been appreciated by the house leader the other day, I should like to quote from page 697 of Hansard of May 30, where the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Green) had this to say:
Some members also asked whether the committees, I presume not only these two but all committees functioning this year, would be sitting while the house is sitting. There again common sense will have to prevail. We have had occasion to complain in the past about being dragged out of the house to committees all over the parliament buildings when we should have been in the house.
That is our worry at the present time, Mr. Speaker, and until the need for this procedure has been demonstrated we do not think it should be followed. We do not think that need has been demonstrated yet.


Mr. Speaker, we in the C.C.F. group also have a similar view relative to the motion now before the house. We do not feel it is right that members of the house should be asked to reach a decision at this time on such a motion.
Before us at the moment is a motion moved by the hon. member for York North on behalf of the standing committee on banking and commerce. There are three recommendations brought forward by the chairman of that committee, two of which we desire to comment upon. Those are the recommendations that the committee on banking and commerce be permitted to sit while the house is sitting, and that the quorum of the committee be reduced from 15 members to 10.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I have the privilege of being a member of that committee. Thus far the committee has met only once, and that one meeting was for the purpose of organization, and organization only. Yet out of a strictly organizational meeting of that

Banking and Commerce Committee important committee on banking and commerce there comes a recommendation to reduce the quorum from 15 to 10, as well as the recommendation to meet while the House of Commons is sitting.
I know that you, sir, recognize the importance that parliament places on the standing committee on banking and commerce. It is of such importance that under standing orders the committee is allowed a membership of 50 and the quorum is set at 15. Surely, sir, 15 members out of 50 is a sufficiently low number to be in attendance in view of the fact that it has already been intimated that very important legislation is going to be referred to this committee.
As a matter of fact, two pieces of legislation have already been referred to it, and the Minister of Finance in his budget presentation on Tuesday night informed the house that some very important legislation, including in particular the bill on estate taxation, is going to be referred to the committee on banking and commerce. Surely a committee of that importance, with that important legislation coming before it, should not be permitted to function with a quorum as low as 10. It would seem that 15 would be the least membership that we could insist be in attendance while the committee is discussing matters referred to it by the House of Commons itself.
On this basis I want to oppose the motion now before us. In addition, I have a second reason, and that is the recommendation that the committee meet while the House of Commons is sitting. As I said before, I think it is rather peculiar that a committee which so far has only had an organizational meeting, before it has even dealt with any business referred to it and has a full understanding of the problems it is going to have to face, should ask for authority to sit while the house is in session.
The matter is one of major principle. Every one of us is here only because we were elected by the vote of the people. We are only here because we stood as candidates to be members of parliament, and when we stood as candidates I take it for granted that we accepted the responsibilities of being members of the House of Commons. Top priority amongst our duties goes to being a member of the House of Commons and being in our places in the house. Of a secondary but important nature is the work of the committees of the house, because they only deal with matters which are referred to them by the house.
I am certain, sir, that all members want to fully accept their responsibilities, both in the house and on committees. However, you


cannot possibly be in both places at the same time. It may come about eventually, by reason of the exigencies of the moment and the pressure of business, that the committee may have to sit while the house is in session. Until that time, and the necessity for it is proven, we submit there should not be a request to this house for that power.
In particular we would draw to your attention that such a request should not be made so long as two out of the five sitting days each week are not being used by the select standing committees of this house. I appreciate the fact that two out of the 18 committees are going to make an effort to sit on Mondays. But it has been the practice, and it still is, that committees of the house do not sit on Mondays and on Fridays, mostly as a favour to what are known publicly as the T. to T. members. Mr. Speaker, the house does not meet on Monday morning. Monday morning is just as good a morning for a meeting of a select standing committee as is Tuesday or Thursday. Until such time as select standing committees are taking advantage of the opportunity to meet on Monday and Friday, as they do on Tuesday and Thursday, we say they have no right to ask that the house give power for a select standing committee to meet at the same time as the House of Commons.


The house sits on Friday morning.


That definitely was the viewpoint taken for as long as I have been here by the hon. members who previously sat on this side of the house. I can very well remember time after time the present Prime Minister standing in his place on this side of the house and expounding, as only he can do so eloquently, to the effect that select standing committees should not meet at the same time as the House of Commons. We are asking that he use his eloquence now to stand by the same principle in government that he stood for when he was in opposition.
He was not alone, Mr. Speaker. I just want to add that I have here the statement made by the previous leader of the opposition, Hon. George Drew, as found at page 4343 of Hansard of June 2, 1955. It is as follows:
Mr. Speaker, it is certainly our wish to facilitate the business of the house in every way this can be done with due regard for the efficient dispatch of public business. I would point out, however, that a number of committees are still sitting, and that they will be sitting in the mornings next week. If this motion is adopted, it will be a practical impossibility for the members of this house to perform their duties both in the house and on committees in the manner in which public business demands.
The same principle was expressed by the Minister of Finance when he also was on this side of the house. As reported at page 5619 of

Hansard of July 4, 1955, we find this very pertinent statement. I only wish he were here to be able to say it himself in the same manner in which he delivered his budget speech the other night. He said this:
[DOT]-and it is simply impossible to do justice to the business of the house if committees are going to be sitting at the same time.
Need I say any more, Mr. Speaker?


No.


The members of the government know that all opposition members of the house will do everything possible to facilitate the business of the people and the business of government, but until the absolute necessity arises we ask that no motions be accepted in this house calling for a committee to meet at the same time as this house, and that no recommendation be accepted in this house to reduce still further the very small quorums of the present committees of this house.


Mr. Speaker, these heartrending
appeals are extremely touching. As hon. members know, some of us now on the government side-


Did exactly the same thing.


-served in the opposition for many years. In the first place I should like to assure my neighbour the hon. member for Vancouver East (Mr. Winch) that we have not changed a bit. We are just as good parliamentarians and democrats now as we were when we were sitting over on his side of the house.


I think we would agree with that statement.


There is one great art about being in opposition in respect of which the hon. member for Vancouver East is an expert, and that is the art of whining.


What was that?


Whining-w-h-i-n-i-n-g. I know that very well, because I was pretty good at it myself.


Hear, hear.


But these Liberals; they still have a lot to learn about this art of whining.


We will never learn that.


Oh, you are learning fast. One of the first things you have to learn is that you must have something to whine about if you are going to do it. Here we have the Leader of the Opposition getting up today with a long face and protesting about this report brought in by the committee. What does the report ask? The first paragraph asks 57071-3-90
Banking and Commerce Committee that the committee be empowered to print such papers and evidence as may be ordered by the committee and that standing order 66 be suspended in relation thereto. Second, it asks that it be granted leave to sit while the house is sitting.


That is the point.


And third, that the quorum of the committee be reduced from 15 to 10 members and that standing orders 65 (1) (d) be suspended in relation thereto. These are standard reports-


Oh, no, they are not.


-brought in by committees. The hon. member had never looked at them when he was on the government side, so he would know nothing about it. There is nothing out of the ordinary in one word of that report; this is the practice which has always been followed.


No, it is not.


It has been followed since I came here in 1935, and now hon. members are trying to blow up a great big complaint about the fact that a routine report is being brought before this house for approval. We have assured hon. members on more than one occasion during this session that these committees would not be asked to sit while the house was sitting unless it was absolutely necessary. Not one of them has been asked yet to sit while this house has been in session, but there come occasions in the later days of every session when it is necessary for a committee to sit. It has never been the practice to come back to the house then and ask for leave to sit while the house is in session.


It has, over and over
again.


We are simply following the ordinary practice; and these complaints made by the official opposition, backed up, of course, by the professional whiners of the house, which by the way have already been made on more than one occasion, are merely a smokescreen designed to try to convince the Canadian people that we are being unfair to parliament.


And so you are.


As far as our publicity is concerned, we have no television set installed, as has the government.


Oh, you are hardly ever here; I have not seen you here, but the people are in possession of the actual facts which are to exactly the opposite effect. There has
1418	HOUSE OF
Banking and Commerce Committee never been a Canadian government so careful of the rights of private members. Here we are giving these committees the opportunity to go into the business that is to come up; estimates being referred to them, committees being given the power to call for witnesses and send for documents, and in many cases the former government absolutely refused to have any of these powers given to committees. We have gone to the very limit, taken the maximum step, to help parliament in its own work and to treat the members of the opposition parties with every consideration. They know this deep down in their hearts, but they just like to make a little row in the house, hoping that they will get a little publicity.
The Liberals now are weeping and wailing because there are only 47 or 48 of them. I would remind the Leader of the Opposition that from 1939 to 1945-at least at the election of 1939 and the election of 1940-we elected less than 40 members on each occasion. We came in with 39 members. In 1945 we elected 67 members; in 1949 we were back to 41 and in 1953 we elected about the same number as the Liberals have at the present time.
Now their trouble is this, that we have these four ex-ministers sitting in the front row, these four horsemen of the apocalypse. They have to be on every committee. The Leader of the Opposition has to be on the estimates committee, because I suppose he does not know anything about what has been going on in the house and he is taking this as a means of finding out. But it was on very rare occasions when we were in opposition that the Leader of the Opposition served on any committee at all.


He may not have attended, but he was on them.


And some of these former ministers think nobody in the Liberal party but themselves can do anything around here. I hate to give them any advice, because from our point of view they are doing very well right now. I do not know how they could do better as far as we are concerned than the way they have been carrying on so far this session. But I will venture to give them one trade secret of how to function in opposition. If the Leader of the Opposition had a little more confidence in some of his private members, and gave them the responsibility on some of these committees instead of trying to run from one to the other himself and do all this work, he would not be getting up in the house complaining about not having time to attend committees.


Apart from this, those private members on the Liberal side of the house might come up with some constructive criticism which would be of some help to the country. They have not been spoiled by this power complex which was developed by the ministers in the last government for so long. These younger men, these new minds might, I suggest, bring about a great improvement in the functioning of the opposition if they were given more responsibility.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I come back to my opening remarks. This is a routine report from a standing committee which should be treated in that way, and we are not going to be bluffed by all this phony talk about the rights of parliament being interfered with in any way when we ask that the report of this committee be concurred in by the house.


Mr. Speaker, as one of those exministers who supposedly has no confidence in the rest of the members of his party, but who happens to be one of the members who attended the only meeting of the banking and commerce committee which has yet been held, I want to make one or two observations which I would not have made if the leader of the house had not made the political speech to which we have just listened. I do not intend to make any such speech; I do not intend to do anything whatever but deal with a few simple facts.
The leader of the house said the Leader of the Opposition was rushing about from committee to committee. If the leader of the house was paying attention to his job he would know that the Leader of the Opposition was on only one committee, and it would be pretty difficult to rush from one committee to the same committee.
The leader of the house talked about this being a routine motion. If this were a routine motion it would not be necessary at all because in 1955, when the rules were changed, it would have been put into the standing orders. The plain fact is that it is not a routine motion at all, and that, until very recent years, it was a rare thing indeed for committees to sit while the house was sitting.
I notice that since hon. gentlemen opposite began to occupy the treasury benches they seem to have developed one very serious failing, namely a failing of memory, as the hon. member for Vancouver East pointed out this afternoon. I was very glad that he demonstrated that with reference to some of the things they used to say when they were over here.
In the committee-and I believe, sir, it is quite proper on a motion for concurrence to

refer to what was said in the committee-the hon. member for Vancouver East and I both objected to this motion, not on the ground that it might not have to be made some time; and we both gave the assurance that if a demonstrated need could be shown we would not oppose the committee meeting while the house was meeting. But we added we did not see the slightest necessity, when there was nothing at all before that committee except two relatively unimportant private bills, and at that time no prospect of anything else, why the government supporters should be rushing in and trying to get this power at this stage. I went so far as to suggest that the conservative position-and I use that word with a small "c", of course

that one should not cross bridges until he comes to them should be adopted in this case.
I do not think there is anyone on this side of the house who would be so unreasonable as to oppose a motion for the committee to sit while the house was sitting at a time when some urgent business was before that committee. But, in this instance, there is nothing before it at the present time except two small private bills, and there is nothing in prospect except a bill mentioned by the Minister of Finance the other evening, which he has not even introduced. Therefore obviously it cannot come before the committee for some considerable time, so there is no question of any smokescreen or anything of that sort. We simply believe that the committee should wait until the time arises when it is necessary to sit while the house is in session. If that time does arise, then we should deal with the question at that time and not now.
Furthermore, sir, as the hon. member for Vancouver East did, I raise the point about sitting on Mondays and on Fridays. There is no reason on earth, of course, why the committee should not sit on Monday except that it seems to suit the convenience of a certain number of hon. members to be somewhere else than in Ottawa on Monday mornings. Indeed, the hon. gentleman who moved this motion himself confessed that it would be inconvenient for him to be here on Monday.
In these circumstances, sir, it seems to me that no case whatever has been made out for bringing this motion forward at this time, and I would ask the mover of the motion to let it stand for the time being.


Mr. Speaker, having been a member of the banking and commerce committee since 1940, I wish to say that the hon. gentleman who has just taken his seat is entirely wrong; because at every first meeting of the banking and commerce committee back to 1940 we have
57071-3-90i
19. 1958
Banking and Commerce Committee always had a motion that the committee sit while the house is sitting. If the Liberals now think that is wrong they certainly were wrong for the 22 years they were in office.
It has been suggested that we sit on Friday mornings. On account of the change in the rules a few years ago the house sits on Friday mornings, and it would not be possible or practicable to call a meeting on a Friday morning, because even if it were called at half past nine it would give only a matter of an hour and a half to sit, and when a committee calls witnesses it is unfair to those witnesses to call them in for an hour and a half.


How about Monday morning?


Monday morning would be all right for some committees. I have no objection to Monday mornings, but there are occasions when a member has a great deal of correspondence to look after on Monday morning.


He can do that while the house is sitting.


Yes, it is true that some of it can be done while the house is sitting. The hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate suggested that the work be done in our offices, but if the house were sitting an hon. member would not be in the house where he is asking us to be.
I know that all members of the House of Commons in general, including the Liberal members, feel that we should sit in the mornings and I am agreeable to that, but there are emergencies. That specifically refers to the sessional committee on government-owned railways and shipping at which officials of the C.N.R. are called. It would not be fair to those officials to have the committee sit for just half a day.


It is not a standing committee.


That committee sits morning, afternoon and night, and has for years. There are other committees to which we call people from out of town, from miles away. It would not be fair to them to sit say on Tuesday morning and then not sit again until Thursday morning, because each party has its caucus on Wednesday morning and the committee could not sit.
I believe it is only right, Mr. Speaker, that this motion should go through as is. It might not be put into effect, but it should be there for an emergency.
Hon. J. M. Macdonnell (Minister without
Portfolio): Since my name has been referred to by the opposition I think I should add just a word. To the best of my recollection, comments I have made have been not upon

Banking and Commerce Committee this particular point but on the question of referring estimates to committees. I think that is the subject on which I spoke. In any event, what I wish to say is that it seems to me that what the leader of the house has said this afternoon about this being a well recognized practice, followed for many years, is sufficient justification for its being followed again. Moreover, there has been no answer that I have observed from the opposite side questioning that statement of the leader of the house. Further, I have no reason to believe, nor has anyone in this house, that this power, if it is given, will be used unfairly or improperly.


Mr. Speaker-


I must inform the house that if the hon. member for York North speaks now he will close the debate.


Mr. Speaker, I have one or two comments to make before the debate does close. May I say at the outset that I, as a comparative newcomer here, enjoyed the humour of the house leader, the Minister of Public Works. Certainly we need that sort of levity regularly to ease the tension. The minister, besides being humorous, did give us an insight into why he has been continually successful at the polls during the number of elections in which he has run as a candidate. Obviously the reason is his ability to spread a smokescreen over something and so confuse the issue that people generally just do not know what they are voting for.
But what the house leader has done is to admit in effect that when he and the other members of the cabinet were sitting on this side of the house they were completely insincere in raising the objections they did to committees sitting at the same time as the house sat. If the minister does not admit that, then he is admitting that he is insincere at the moment in following the lead of the Liberal party which did substantially the same thing when they were in office. Sometimes raising a smokescreen is pretty effective, but no matter how the minister tries to smile or wriggle his way out of the situation he is trapped. He cannot have it both ways at the same time.
It is not a matter of whining, as he likes to put it; not a matter of raising objections just for the sake of trying to create the impression that the government is doing away with the rights of parliament, but purely and simply a matter of whether this or any other committee should sit while the house is sitting.
Finally, may I congratulate the hon. member for Peterborough for at least speaking to the subject.


Mr. Speaker, when dealing with this subject I do think it is somewhat strange to hear from the mouth of the hon. member for Vancouver East the words we heard this afternoon. The members of his group complain that they cannot be present in the house and at committees at the same time, but I call to mind last Friday as an example of their assiduous attention to the business of the house. I would draw to the attention of hon. members of that group and others on the left of the Speaker that last Friday was an example. When private bills came up there was only one member of the C.C.F. group in his seat, the hon. member for Kootenay West (Mr. Herridge). Yet most of the private bills have originated with that group. We have an idea where these members were. I may be wrong but my information, and I think it is correct, is that they were out looking at an aircraft.
As far as the Liberals are concerned, on Friday and Monday afternoons there are horrible gaps in their ranks, and we know where they are.


What about your side?


Will the hon. member permit a question?


People who live in glass
houses should not throw rocks.


Would the hon. member permit a question before he takes his seat?


Certainly.


I wonder whether the hon. member is aware that what we were attempting to do was to give the hon. member for Vancouver South (Mr. Broome) an opportunity to proceed with his bill respecting company directors.


That is the reason we did not proceed with ours.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put on record the attendance at the standing committee on mines, forests and waters.


Order.


It so happens-


Order. I am not sure that the hon. member would be in order in referring to the attendance at a committee whose report is not before the house.


They do not want to hear it.


The question is the following one: Mr. Cathers, seconded by Mr. McBain, moves that the first report of the standing

committee on banking and commerce, presented on June 17, 1958, be now concurred in.
Those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


Those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the yeas have it.


On division.
And more than five members having risen:


Call in the members.


that the second report of the standing committee on estimates, presented to the house on June 17, 1958, be now concurred in.
1422	HOUSE OF
NORAD-Canada-XJ.S. Agreement


Mr. Speaker, we have the same objection to this motion being proceeded with at this time as we had to the previous one. I will not delay the house by repeating that objection.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to add one further word. We had a similar vote in the committee on miscellaneous private bills. At that time I was pleased to see that members on the government side sided in with the same arguments that were used here today, with the result that this particular motion was turned down in committee. I thought it rather strange that the same hon. members who not only voted against a similar motion but spoke very strongly in that regard-


Order. The hon. member, by the rules, is not permitted to reflect upon the vote of any other hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, I should just like to say that we do not want to delay the business of the house in any way but that we should merely like to register our protest on this particular vote. We certainly will not force a division of the house in that respect.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


On division.


On division.
Motion agreed to on division.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Acting Minister of Labour. In view of the unemployment situation in Halifax will the minister arrange to have deferred the lay-off of government employees at Citadel hill, which was to be effective on Saturday next, June 21, following very short notice?


If the hon. member will give me particulars of this matter I will have it investigated.


The house resumed, from Wednesday, June 11, consideration of the motion of Mr. Diefen-baker:
That it is expedient that the houses of parliament do approve an exchange of notes constituting an agreement between the government of Canada and the government of the United States of America concerning the organization and operation of the North American air defence command (NORAD) signed at Washington May 12, 1958, and that this house do approve the same.
Mr. Speaker, it is always very difficult to resume debate after a break such as has taken place in the discussion of the matter now before this house. For the purposes of the record I would like to refer to the fact that on June 11 last I was dealing with this matter for only a few moments before the house adjourned, and what I intend to do today is simply to review one or two of the reasons for the course of action adopted by this government. Thereafter I will answer certain general questions which have been asked, and finally I will deal with the stand taken by the Leader of the Opposition and the rather tortuous course followed by the opposition from the time this matter first received the attention of this government to date.
It will be recalled that during the course of the debate reference was made to the perils faced by the free world and to the position of Canada vis-a-vis that of the United States and that of the U.S.S.R. In addition to the mover, the Minister of National Defence and the Secretary of State for External Affairs have spoken on this very important matter, the Minister of National Defence, of course, having addressed his remarks mainly to defence. The two ministers dealt with the special necessity for the implementation of this arrangement between Canada and the United States, and may I say that they reviewed the facts in a manner which clearly indicated their appreciation of the dangers facing our country and of the necessity for this action to be taken.
I particularly wish to emphasize, in view of statements made by various hon. members opposite, that NORAD is strictly defensive in nature and in operation. I realized, as I listened to the speeches of hon. gentlemen in all parts of the house, that there exists deep concern with respect to the tensions and the dangers which are even more apparent than at the time of the adjournment one week ago. This is because during the intervening period free men everywhere have been shocked to learn of what happened to the former Hungarian prime minister and those associated with him, which events indicate that the so-called soft attitude of the U.S.S.R., which seemed to have been apparent during the last two years, has now been supplanted by a form of Stalinism brought up to date.

I am not going to enter into an argument as to whether or not NORAD is part and parcel of NATO, but I would point out that Mr. Spaak, when speaking before the parliamentary association, did say with reference to this matter that the military plans of NORAD are known to the standing group in the military committee through the Canadian-United States regional planning group, and are studied there. This relationship supplies a base for co-ordination between the plans set up by the supreme commanders directly under the standing group and the plans of NORAD. He went on to say that it is in this context, therefore, that NORAD's role in the general framework of the over-all defence of the North Atlantic treaty area can be defined.
I would furthermore repeat that in so far as NORAD is concerned, it represents the extension of the principles of NATO to the North American continent, in that it makes provision for the joining together of free nations within the concept of NATO and for the purposes of NATO. Without discussing the connection between NORAD and NATO I wish to say that I believe, whether it is a part of NATO or not, it does strengthen NATO, which is all that matters.
It is defensive and not offensive. It will give muscles to NATO in North America. Indeed, in view of the recent reports to which I have just alluded, added strength has been given to the wise words of Sir Winston Churchill, who on December 31 last referred to the Atlantic alliance and suggested its members should give assistance and sympathy to any member state having problems in overseas territories. He said, as reported in the New York Times of January 1, 1958:
It is on the unity and strength of the countries of the alliance, and particularly Great Britain and the United States, that the future depends.
The North Atlantic treaty should not limit to Europe the scope of mutual assistance and sympathy among its members. We cannot have the closest exchanges here, and be indifferent to the interests of our friends in their overseas problems.
I repeat that all the arguments as to the actual legalistic position or otherwise of NATO in its relationship to NORAD in no way answer the problem with which we are faced, namely that with the American interest in North America-and by "American" I refer to the United States-with its large numbers of troops and other armoured personnel, whether or not they are in fact within the contemplation of the operations of NATO, they comply with the principle dedication of NATO to the preservation of peace.
I am going to refer to some of the questions that were raised at the very beginning before I say something on what to me is a very
NORAD-Canada-U.S. Agreement difficult problem, namely the strange and mystifying attitude of Her Majesty's loyal opposition in connection with this matter. The Leader of the Opposition asked on the basis of some report from Washington, which he did not identify, whether or not Air Marshal Slemon could exercise authority over United States forces under NORAD. He wanted to know how much of the time NORAD would be under the command of the Canadian air marshal. This question was answered by the defence news branch of the office of the assistant secretary of defence and public affairs of the United States, Allan A. Howell, when in respect to the question whether Air Marshal Slemon could commit United States forces without consulting the United States government but be unable to commit Canadian forces without consulting the government of Canada, he used these words on January 10:
Air Marshal Slemon, in accordance with the agreement with the Canadians, is deputy commander in chief of NORAD, and in the absence of the commander in chief, exercises all prerogatives of command in the event of war or any other time.
There is no doubt about it. This was the defence news branch in Washington setting forth the position of the United States with regard to this matter. The only veto of any sort is that applied by the United States everywhere in the world, that nuclear weapons shall not be used excepting as authorized by the President of the United States, and that proviso applies everywhere in the free world in consequence of the position of the United States and of legislation in effect in that country.
The question was asked, does the agreement involve Canada in any action outside North America? The obvious answer to that is no.
Another question was, what will be the basis of financing the operations of the integrated headquarters of the command. The answer to that question is that the cost of the pay and allowances of the Canadians at NORAD is met by Canada, and no other costs have been considered to date.
Then the hon. member for Essex East asked -barring security-what was the relative strength of American and Canadian forces in the United States serving under General Partridge. An answer to that question had already been given on June 3 in reply to a question by the hon. member for Ottawa West, when it was stated that the strength of the Canadian forces serving at NORAD was eight officers, seven other ranks and two civilians, and in the reply it was also pointed out that the release of strength figures other than Canadian is not the responsibility of the Canadian government.
1424	HOUSE OF
NORAD-Canada-U.S. Agreement
Among other questions asked by the Leader of the Opposition was this. Did the original decision made last summer to establish NORAD take into account the entirely new strategic situation created by the intercontinental ballistic missile. Well, I would hope that the hon. gentleman had the answer to that question. As yet I have not referred to all the items in connection with the memorandum on steps in the development of integration of operational control. I referred to early discussions in connection with this matter on May 14, 1956, when the Canadian chiefs of staff and the United States joint chiefs of staff agreed to refer to the joint study group the integration of operational control. On February 18, 1957 there was a memorandum prepared to the cabinet defence committee on integration of operational control of Canadian and continental United States air defence forces in peacetime.
It is interesting to note that two days after that event of June 10, 1957, the following appears in the record, and it strikes me as passing strange, although it is not the first time the Leader of the Opposition did not know what was going on at the time he was secretary of state for external affairs in connection with military matters. He revealed that much in June, 1956, in connection with the shipment of arms to Egypt, but I will not refer to that unless forced to do so.


Go ahead.


But on June 12, 1957, two days after the election, an aide-memoire was forwarded to the then minister of national defence, Mr. Campney, by the chairman, chiefs of staff committee, outlining the position on integration of operational control with regard to the air defence of North America. I am not going back to the events when the matter was brought to the attention of the cabinet defence committee by memorandum on March 11, 1957, but even after the election this matter was raised; and it is passing strange that it did not receive any attention by the then government between those dates, when the aide-memoire provided the information necessary for the cabinet to act.
And then, on June 18, this memorandum reveals the degree to which complete consideration had been given to this matter by the chiefs of staff and also, I presume, by the minister of defence. The chairman, chiefs of staff, instructed Major General Sparling, Canadian joint staff, Washington, to see Admiral Radford, chairman of the United States joint chiefs of staff, and inform him that the Canadian chiefs of staff had placed the question of the integration of operational


control before the government on Friday, June 14; that the outgoing government regretted to state that they did not consider they were any longer in a position to finalize any international agreement, and that there would therefore be some delay in the finalization of the matter.
In others words, consideration had been given to this question as a result of two years' discussion between the chiefs of staff and also with the minister of national defence of the previous government, with whose activities one would think the former secretary of state for external affairs would have been fully conversant. Only in the last few days evidence was given before one of the committees of parliament-the estimates committee-by one of the officials of the Department of National Defence to the effect that there was the closest possible relationship in the matter of exchange of information between those two departments.
The question was asked, did the original decision made last summer take into consideration the strategic situation created by the intercontinental ballistic missile. Those documents show that every consideration was given to all those factors, and I summarize by saying that all factors relating to the strategic situation, including the improvement in the manner of delivery of nuclear weapons, was fully considered prior to the establishment of NORAD.
Another question asked by the Leader of the Opposition was what functions were being given to NORAD to prevent any mistake in intelligence or in detection of aircraft, a matter which could be vital. It was vital in 1956; it was vital in 1957, before June 10. Well, such precautions as are necessary are set forth in the rules of engagement and included in the document entitled "Authority to Intercept and Engage Hostile Aircraft" which I tabled on June 10.
Another question was, can the commander of NORAD at his discretion move reinforcements across the border to meet operational requirements and, if so, under what conditions. Again I was surprised at the questioning attitude of the Leader of the Opposition. These things had been discussed; these things had been fully covered over a period of almost one and a half years.
And yet the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson), with surprise in his eyes, says: "I wonder what was done in connection with this" when, as a matter of fact, he either knows what the minister of national defence in his government was doing or if he does not know it does not show that degree of co-operation which should exist between the Department of

National Defence and the Department of Secretary of State for External Affairs. It is just one bit of further evidence of the reason why, in January, 1956, the hon. gentleman did not know that Harvard aircraft were being shipped to Egypt. But we carried the thing on day by day and week by week and found out finally that there was an order in council which was passed on January 10, 1955. He said that it was considered by cabinet; that it was a serious matter and one wherein every consideration should be given to the realization of the danger spot in the Middle East. It was considered by cabinet and the decision was the decision of cabinet. Then, they ended up by saying, well, in the first place there is not an order in council; in the second place it was never considered; and in the third place we did not know anything about it until after the shipment took place. This is just one more example of that failure on the part of the Department of External Affairs to have a knowledge of what the Department of National Defence was considering in connection with a major international matter. I refer to the question of whether the commander of NORAD at his discretion can move reinforcements across the border.
I would refer the hon. gentleman to the exchange of notes tabled in the House of Commons on May 19, 1958, which we are now debating, in which it is set forth in full as follows:
Temporary reinforcement from one area to another, including the crossing of the international boundary, to meet operational requirements will be within the authority of commanders having operational control.
The next question he asked was:
Is Canada going to negotiate directly with Washington a bilateral pact for bases of nuclear projectiles.
That question has not been raised or considered.
In a very beautiful speech the hon. member for Mount Royal (Mr. Macnaughton) placed his views before the house. He asked two questions in particular in addition to those that have already been answered:
Will the United States commander of NORAD have authority to order the R.C.A.F. to shoot down planes which the commander considers hostile, without first clearing his order with the Canadian government?
... has General Partridge been given authority to shoot first and ask permission later from Washington and Ottawa? If so, where is this shown in the agreement?
I have already stated in answer to these two questions by way of anticipation that action against hostile aircraft is covered by the rules of engagement which I tabled earlier in this house.
NORAD-Canada-U.S. Agreement
I have had the questions gone through most carefully to ascertain what questions have not been answered. These have not been answered and for that reason I have taken the time of the house to answer them.
I am now going to refer to what I said in the beginning as to the dangerous and uncertain courses adopted in this matter by the Leader of the Opposition on behalf of his party. First, as a member of the government he knew what was going on. Since the minister of national defence who was negotiating throughout was a member of that same government, the Leader of the Opposition knew what was going on. If he did not know, there is only one conclusion one can come to. However, the attitude that he has taken on this matter since last September or October is to me out of keeping with what might have been expected. As far as the asking of questions, as far as the most careful analysis of every matter that could possibly be revealed, and within the limits of security may be asked, are concerned, in that he discharges the function of a responsible opposition. But, sir, when he produced straw men to knock down, bogeymen to scare and arouse suspicion in the hearts of Canadians, I say that he went farther than that.
On reflection, to use those immortal words of the hon. member for Essex East (Mr. Martin) I am sure he will regret it. I think it was Winston Churchill who once said, "I do not resent criticism even when for the sake of emphasis it parts for the time with reality", and I think that pretty well sums up the need of criticism and also the limitation. But I say it is an altogether different thing when criticism departs from the facts for obvious political purposes.
I intend to deal with the course taken by the Liberal party on this matter. First, in the fall of 1957 the arrangements in general were attacked. The hon. gentleman said that he had no knowledge of the arrangements when, as a matter of fact, if he had not, there was no connection between departments, or whatever information was available he for some reason or other was unable to secure it.
Then, the next step was to arouse fears in the hearts of Canadians by playing the tune in every part of this country that we had deserted Canadian rights by sacrifices of Canadian sovereignty and had brought about a state of United States control over Canadian forces. I have a number of speeches that were delivered by the hon. gentleman pointing out the dangers of this. Well, he knew that the position of affairs was no different from having a NATO commander with the power over Canadian troops as today the United States commander has power over Canadian and United States troops.

NORAD-Canada-U.S. Agreement Then he produced-and I have often wondered the reason for his doing it-that outrageous doctrine that Canada should notify the United States that unless their trade arrangements were brought in line with Canada's wishes we could not fully co-operate in defence. Not only he, but the former associate minister of national defence, Mr. Paul Hellyer, at the Liberal convention at the city of Ottawa said this:
I think that when they do come to us and ask for them-
And he was talking about defence concessions.
-we should be very tough with them and say to them: Look at our adverse balance of trade. You help by buying as much from us as we buy from you and we will go along 100 per cent in our mutual defence.
That is a strange doctrine, in a world where freedom is challenged, when we are in the position, as an hon. member said, of a Belgium, that we should advance to the United States a doctrine such as that. Is it the voice of responsibility to say that if we in Canada cannot have from the United States what we want in trade-and incidentally that tremendous trade in balance exercises the minds of my hon. friends opposite today to a degree that it did not when it was being piled up during their days of office-they should say to us that we in Canada should place ourselves in the position of committing international suicide and not be a partner unless the United States couples its actions respecting defence with those in respect of trade? I say I was amazed to hear the Leader of the Opposition raising a similar argument in this house.
What was the next step? First, we did not know anything about it. Second, we should act only under certain circumstances. Then, they said, "Well, you have got the agreement but it has not been sufficiently discussed, although they themselves had their experts and military officials discussing it, as I say, for a period of a year and a half. Then they raised the suspicion that war might start by the mistake of some officer although they themselves had produced the rules of contact in order to prevent that from occurring.
