Mr. Speaker, following my remarks yesterday I am now in a position to advise that Mr. Macmillan has accepted the invitation to come to Ottawa. He will arrive in Ottawa accompanied by the foreign secretary, Mr. Selwyn Lloyd, early in the morning of March 18, and the major portion of that day will be spent in consultation and talks with members of the government. They will leave for Washington on the morning of March 19.
I know that all hon. members will join in extending a warm welcome to Mr. Macmillan and Mr. Lloyd. By the time they visit us they will have completed a round of exploratory consultations which will have included discussions in Paris and Bonn.
The Prime Minister's visit will be unavoidably short, but plans have been made for a thorough, informal exchange of views on the international problems which confront us as interested members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. My colleagues and I look forward to the opportunity of discussing those matters in particular which resulted from the visit of the Prime Minister to the U.S.S.R.


Mr. Speaker, I welcome the remarks of the Prime Minister, and wish to say that the C.C.F. group look forward very much to the visit of Prime Minister Macmillan and Mr. Selwyn Lloyd to Canada. We think this visit is most important at this time because of the discussions Prime Minister Macmillan has had with Premier Khrushchev. I want to say for the C.C.F. that we admire greatly the courage and foresight shown by Prime Minister Macmillan in making his recent trip to the Soviet union. We agree with statements we have seen in the press in which he has said that he would consider a pull-back of troops from Germany, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and central Europe. We think these talks are most welcome, and we are very much in favour of continued conversations instead of the alternative of extermination for the world.


Mr. Speaker, I am tabling today the report, Private and Public Investment in Canada-Outlook 1959, which summarizes the results of a recent survey of capital spending intentions. The survey, conducted annually, is designed to cover all anticipated outlays for new plant and equipment, institutional and government facilities and housing. For the fourth year in succession capital investment in Canada will exceed $8 billion, a more than threefold increase in a period of 12 years. Present investment plans provide for total new capital outlays in 1959 of $8.3 billion, slightly below the $8.4 billion expended in 1958. The over-all total of intended outlays on construction and machinery, including repairs, gives a grand total for 1959 of $11.1 billion, exactly the same as for 1958. An examination of preceding survey results shows that in the past, in comparable situations to that now prevailing in Canada, stated investment plans at the beginning of the year have tended to underestimate the amount of work eventually realized. It is quite possible, therefore, that some further filling out of investment programs will occur during the course of the present year.
Within the total program, the principal increases appear in commercial and institutional building and government projects. Increased capital outlays are indicated for each of the three levels of government. Provincial and municipal governments and agencies are faced with steadily expanding requirements for roads, schools, hospitals and many types of local improvements. Somewhat easier supply conditions in the construction industry have helped in getting ahead with these programs. The federal government also is proceeding with an expanded program of public projects designed to meet the needs for defence installations and other services and to foster national development. Outlays made directly by federal departments are estimated to increase by 10 per cent, while expenditures by all three levels of government combined are expected to rise at almost the same rate.
Within the business sector, commercial construction will apparently go ahead more

Statement on Canadian Economy rapidly than ever. An approximately unchanged rate of capital spending is indicated for a broad range of industry, including agriculture, forest and mineral extraction and processing, secondary manufacturing and transportation and communications. Alone of the major business groups, fuel and power industries have indicated a somewhat lower level of capital expenditures in 1959. This reflects the near completion last year of a number of large scale undertakings, including the trans-Canada gas pipe line, the St. Lawrence seaway and power projects and other major power developments.
In recent months there has been a marked increase in the volume of new projects coming forward. Consequently a larger proportion of the 1959 program is comprised of work on newly-initiated projects, as opposed to the carryover of work on undertakings started in previous years. This change in the makeup of the investment program is indicative of new interest in expansion.
The rate of anticipated expenditures for 1959 indicates that Canadian industry is continuing to expand rapidly. As a proportion of total national output, anticipated outlays for new plant and equipment compare favourably with levels in most post-war years. This continuing build-up in the tools of industry reflects the underlying confidence of the businessman in the future of Canada, and is indicative of the strength and diversity of the expansive forces within the Canadian economy.
The physical impact of the anticipated investment program, in terms of its demands upon Canadian industry, will be about the same in 1959 as in the preceding year. Other types of demand, however, will be higher. Consumer purchases are rising. There are indications that inventory liquidation, which exerted a depressive effect on business activity for most of 1958, will soon give way to accumulation. With recovery proceeding steadily in the United States, export prospects are brightening. A sustained demand for capital goods, in conjunction with expanding markets in other fields, gives promise of further growth in production and employment levels in the period ahead.


Mr. Speaker, the minister has made an extremely important statement which, so far as one can gather from listening to it without notice, represents that in regard to investment intentions and capital expenditures this country merely is holding its own. That is a situation which is surely not satisfactory if we wish to have a dynamic and expanding economy. However, the statement deserves and will receive attention

from this side of the house. In due course there will be an opportunity to discuss it, possibly in connection with the budget debate which perhaps will be commencing before the Easter recess.


Mr. Speaker, knowing the tradition of governments and that the Minister of Trade and Commerce usually tries to put forecasts in the best possible light, it is my opinion that having regard to the need for a tremendous expansion in the Canadian economy, on a study little room will be found for comfort in the statement that has just been made. The statement, in effect, says we are going to be marking time; we will be holding our own, and there will be a reduction of expenditures in certain circumstances. There will be increases in certain other outlays.
When one considers the further increase in automation in this country and its further impact on employment, one can only come to the conclusion that now is the time for a great, dynamic development sponsored and promoted by government action. This is the time for the government, and governments generally, to increase expenditures on self-liquidating projects for the Canadian nation that will result in an increased standard of living and full employment instead of the current stagnation, recession and unemployment.


the first reading of Bill No. S-3 (from the Senate) to amend the Canada Shipping Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the order:	Government notices of
motion:
March 4-The Minister of Public Works-The following proposed motion:-That items numbered 127 to 145, inclusive, as listed in the main estimates for the year ending March 31, 1960, relating to the Department of Fisheries, be withdrawn from the committee of supply and be referred to the standing committee on marine and fisheries, saving always the powers of the committee of supply in relation to the voting of public moneys.
Stand.


Pursuant to section 2 of standing order 21 this government notice of

motion stands transferred to and ordered for consideration under government orders at the next sitting of the house.


On the order:	Government notices of
motion:
March 4-The Minister of Finance-The following proposed motion:-That the public accounts volumes I and II and the report of the Auditor General for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1958 and the financial statements of the Canada Council and the report of the Auditor General thereon for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1958 be referred to the standing committee on public accounts.
Stand.


Pursuant to section 2 of standing order 21 this government notice of motion stands transferred to and ordered for consideration under government orders at the next sitting of the house.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of National Revenue whether he has received a telegram from the C.B.C. producers in Montreal with regard to the settlement of the strike, and whether he proposes to take any action in regard to that telegram.


Mr. Speaker, I have not received the telegram to which the hon. gentleman refers. All mail and telegrams go to the departmental office first and then come up here. There may be one there, but it has not come to my attention this morning.


Can the
minister say whether there has been any change in the attitude of the C.B.C., and whether the C.B.C. is now prepared, as are the producers, to sign the original agreement to which initials had been attached and bring this strike to a conclusion?


There has been no change in the attitude of the C.B.C. I do not think I can amplify what I said yesterday. The C.B.C. is quite prepared to sign the agreement, provided that agreement means what it says and what it was intended to say when it was initialled early in February.


Would that not be the position the C.B.C. should have taken before they initialled the agreement?
Inquiries of the Ministry


There was no need to take that position before they initialled the agreement because it was fully understood at that time what the agreement meant, and it was only some weeks later that a new interpretation was put upon it.


I would like to address a question to the Minister of National Revenue. Is it a fact that the C.B.C. has now proposed a new definition of functions for its producers in Montreal after having refused to ratify the agreement it had accepted on February 7?


I am not accepting that premise at all. The C.B.C. has not refused to ratify an agreement which had been accepted. The producers have refused to ratify an agreement which they had accepted. So far as I know there has been no change such as the hon. member suggests.


A supplementary question. Can the minister tell us why the C.B.C. is making that proposal at this stage, when it had refused to accept a similar one on January 11, two months ago?


I do not know to what proposal the hon. gentleman refers. I am not in touch directly with negotiations or conversations which have taken place between the corporation and producers. If there is any substance in this question to which the hon. gentleman has called my attention, I will make inquiries and deal with it on Monday.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct another question to the Minister of National Revenue. I am sorry I did not have time to send him notice. My question can be taken as notice. In view of press reports indicating that Mr. Murray Hayes, vice president of the executive committee of the city of Montreal, received a phone call from a member of the C.B.C. board of directors in connection with the protection of the C.B.C. building in Montreal, can the minister tell us the name of the C.B.C. director who made the call and what was the nature of the representations he made to Mr. Hayes?


I certainly cannot, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Can the Minister of Justice say whether the attorney general of the province of Quebec has authorized the
1676	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry intervention of the R.C.M.P. for the alleged protection of C.B.C. buildings in Montreal? Can he also say why such intervention has been undertaken, and what has been done in this connection by the R.C.M.P. up to now?


So
far as I know the attorney general of the province of Quebec has not taken any steps in the matter. There is, however, an over-all responsibility on the R.C.M. police for the protection of federal properties. The C.B.C. building in Montreal is crown owned property, and some R.C.M. police have been inside the building, prepared to carry out their responsibilities should the need arise.


May I ask a supplementary question. Has this intervention of the R.C.M.P. been decided upon by the R.C.M.P., or were they ordered by the government to do so?


The commissioner of the R.C.M. police is responsible for the operations of the R.C.M. police, and in my experience I have not found that the commissioner requires to be ordered to carry out his responsibilities.


A supplementary question. Has the commissioner discussed this difficulty with the minister, and is this action taken with the approval of the minister?


The commissioner has discussed the situation with me, and as I have said the action referred to consists of the stationing of a small detail of R.C.M. police inside the radio corporation building to protect federal government property and the persons of those who may be using that property. But there has been, according to my information, no intervention. Nothing has actually happened in that regard calling for action by the R.C.M. police.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. My question arises out of the answers given to a question and supplementary question which I asked yesterday concerning the expiry of the trade treaty with Russia. The point to which X wish to address my question is this. The minister, in answer to the supplementary question, having indicated that there was no trade treaty with Russia at the moment, said this:


...but Russia enjoys most favoured nation treatment and has for a number of years now.
I would like to ask the minister if he would clarify the position as to the most favoured nation treatment with Russia at the present time?


I shall be glad to do so, Mr. Speaker. The trade treaty which was signed in 1956 expired at the end of February. That trade treaty, with which my hon. friends opposite are quite familiar, principally established the exchange of most favoured nation treatment between Russia and Canada. An order in council was passed in 1956 in this regard, and an order in council would have to be passed to revoke that most favoured nation treatment. In the interval, while negotiations are going on with the Russians, they have been informed that the most favoured nation treatment will be continued in effect. As hon. members are aware, that most favoured nation treatment does not entitle another country to any unique advantage but merely guarantees that the country will not be discriminated against in trade matters.
The main advantage gained by the treaty of 1956 was an agreement for the purchase of wheat from Canada to the amount of 50 million bushels or more. That was to be taken up over a three-year period at not less than 400,000 tons a year. We are in this position at the moment, that for the crop year 19581959 the third and final commitment under that arrangement is in process of being settled between the Russians and ourselves. So although the trade treaty of 1956 expired at the end of February, our trade relations in respect of Russia are unchanged.
Perhaps I was not clear in my remarks yesterday that the only restriction with regard to trade with Russia has relation to the strategic list.


I thank the minister.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether in view of the undertaking made by him last Tuesday in this house, and reported at page 1550 of Hansard, he is now in a position to supply the list of import controls established by the United States when the former Liberal government was in office, on Canadian oil as well as on other Canadian minerals?


Mr. Speaker, I have the list available. I had hoped the hon. gentleman would

let me know in anticipation that he would like to have it today. It is available, and I will see that the entire list of protests sent by Canada over the years will be made available to the house.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State. Has the minister received any representations from government employees in Hay River, Northwest Territories, concerning the discriminatory isolation allowances paid to civil servants there as compared with allowances paid to other civil servants in the north where the costs of living are comparable? If so, what do they intend to do about it?


Mr. Speaker, to my knowledge, no.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether I can ask the Prime Minister if it is his intention to attend the summit conference that has been called by the hereditary chiefs of the Six Nations Indians?


Mr. Speaker, I understand that the hon. gentleman is also an honorary chief, so I return the compliment and ask him the same question.


On a question of privilege, sir, I unfortunately am not a chief, honorary or otherwise. There is a provision that the superintendent general can never accept a chieftainship. I am sure that is the only reason I was not chosen.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Justice a question arising out of the interview I believe he had yesterday with Mr. Claude Jodoin, president of the Canadian Congress of Labour. Can the minister say whether it is the intention of the government to have the controversial bills now before the Newfoundland 66968-9-107
Supply-A griculture
legislature referred to any committee of the cabinet or to any body for study, and whether the government is doing this for the purpose of considering whether or not those acts will be disallowed.


As
the hon. gentleman says, I had a visit from Mr. Jodoin and Mr. Forsey yesterday. They indicated to me their concern about the reported legislation of Newfoundland. I advised them that full note was taken of their concern and of the point of view they then put forward and that the matter would be considered by cabinet, where it is now being considered. One of our difficulties, of course, is that the legislation has not yet completed its passage through the Newfoundland house and we do not know in what final form it may emerge, so it is not too easy to arrive at a final decision at the present time; but the questions referred to us are under active study.


I appreciate the minister's answer. Can he say whether the bills in their present form are before the cabinet?


I think the answer the minister has given makes it clear that to pursue this matter would be to pursue something that is hypothetical at the present time.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Sevigny in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Administration branch-
1. Departmental administration, including advisory committee on agricultural services, $747,531.


Mr. Chairman, in introducing the
estimates of the Department of Agriculture I think perhaps it would be appropriate for me to start by saying something about the reorganization which has been taking place within the department during the past several months and which will go into full effect at the end of this fiscal year, being the end of this month. The change shows up, of course, in the form of the estimates, and most hon. members who have looked at these estimates will no doubt have noted that they are in considerably different form than they were last year and in preceding years.
The physical growth of the department and the increasing dependence of farmers on the results of scientific research have brought about a need for changes in the form and direction of the departmental machine. There is no intention, however, of losing sight of

Supply-Agriculture
the primary objective of service to agriculture. Rather, the changes are aimed at bringing to bear on farm problems the full resources of the scientific and administrative staffs. I think perhaps I should note that there have been some stories and misapprehensions at one time or another as to what the results of this reorganization would be. Some farmers got the idea that they would no longer be welcome at experimental farms across the country, and so on. Nothing is further from the truth. We are very anxious at all times to have people interested in what is going on at the experimental farms and research centres come there, learn what they can and carry away the results of the experimental work we are doing and put them into practical operation on their own farms.
The main features of the present plan are the establishment of a research branch that will integrate the former experimental farms and science services, and the incorporation of the marketing service and the production service into a production and marketing branch. Each of these new units will have at its head an assistant deputy minister under whom will be a director general with appropriate supporting staff. An administration branch will take care of departmental administration and will also embrace the information division and the economics division, the latter formerly associated with the marketing service.
Undoubtedly the most radical feature of this reorganization is the development of the research branch as the principal research agency of the department. Its organization will differ markedly from the present pattern. The old divisional lines will disappear, and the program directorate will plan and coordinate the research program. It will be the duty of this directorate to search out problems, to study them from the standpoint of their effects on the farmers' economy, and to recommend appropriate action.
Another feature will be the establishment within the department of 10 research institutes organized on the basis of scientific disciplines rather than problems. I have a list of those here but I will not take the time at the moment to go over them. If anyone is interested, when we come to the particular item I will be very glad to give the information in connection with the 10 new research institutes which are being set up.
Apart from the research institutes, the research program will be organized on a regional basis with the type of establishment and the program of work varying with the area. There will be little actual physical change in the present regional establishments,
[Mr. Harkness.l
but rather a consolidation of effort and unified administrative control at each centre.
The second major arm of the reorganized department will be the production and marketing branch, bringing under unified direction all departmental activities in the fields of agriculture production and marketing. The largest single unit in this branch will be the health of animals division, which will remain unchanged as to organization. Livestock work in both the production and marketing fields will be centred in the new livestock division. Similarly, poultry work in both fields will be brought together in the poultry division. The present divisions dealing with dairy products, fruits and vegetables, plant products and plant protection will enter the new branch unchanged.
I think I should perhaps also say something about the plans for the central experimental farm here at Ottawa, which have been the subject of a good deal of speculation, not all of it by any means correct. The national capital commission is in the process of acquiring some 4,000 acres of land in the green belt to be used by the Department of Agriculture as an annex to the central experimental farm. It will accommodate the animal research studies, including the animal research institute of the research branch and the animal pathology laboratories of the production and marketing branch.
The commission has actively pursued its land acquiring program and will have the land available as required to carry out the department's plans. It will turn over the land progressively as it is needed to implement these plans. The animal research institute will require one main office-laboratory building to provide working facilities for approximately 80 research officers and satellite functional buildings for dairy cattle, beef cattle, sheep, swine, poultry and fur bearing animals. The animal pathology laboratories will require office-laboratory facilities, a special isolation unit for research on virus diseases, and limited functional buildings for livestock.
It is anticipated that the following work program will go forward during 1959-60: (1) surveys of the site will be completed and the site plan for the animal research centre will be agreed on; (2) plans for the installation of services will be completed; (3) land at and around the building site will be taken over from the national capital commission, the area being approximately 1,000 acres;
(4)	preliminary plans for the animal research institute office-laboratory will be completed;
(5)	phase 1 of the building program will be implemented, including the functional buildings for beef cattle and sheep and part of the requirements for poultry; (6) plans for

the functional buildings of phase 2 will be completed and will provide for dairy cattle and for the remaining poultry.
It is hoped that the architects can produce a plan for the office-laboratory building and for the functional livestock buildings which will fit into the agricultural setting and the highest ideals of the green belt conception. Speculations that a part or parts of the present experimental farm will be sold or given over to other uses are entirely without foundation at the present time. The agriculture department can use and intends to use all the present central experimental farm, and has no plans whatever for disposing of any part of it. In my view the farm is one of the great assets of Ottawa as a city, and the farm will be increasingly an asset as time goes on. I would envisage that 100 years from now the farm will be to Ottawa what Hyde park is to London or Central park to New York. I would certainly hope that it would not be used for building purposes, and the only big open space left in the city thus alienated and done away with.
I should like to turn to some of the economic matters in connection with agriculture. In the debate on the speech from the throne on January 23 I gave a general picture of the agricultural economy, and I do not intend to repeat what I said at that time. However, I think I should add some of the further statistics which have become available since that time and in this way complete the story of 1958 from the agricultural point of view.
Supply-Agriculture
I spoke in January about the gross cash income received by the farmers in 1958 as the highest on record, $2,869 million. I shall not repeat at this moment the gross cash income which I gave at that time in respect of previous years. However, I have here a breakdown of cash income as far as the provinces are concerned. It is quite interesting to analyse this and see what the effect has been in all parts of Canada. I might say these figures are from the dominion bureau of statistics daily bulletin of May 29, 1958, which gives the cash income by provinces for the years 1940-57. We have added the current figures.
In 1958, in Prince Edward Island, cash income amounted to $28,730,000 which was the highest cash income ever earned in Prince Edward Island except for one year. The same is true of Nova Scotia, where the cash income received was the highest except for the year 1956, when I guess they had a good apple crop. It was about $750,000 less than that year.


Would the minister put
these figures on the record?


I should be very glad to file this document and have the figures printed in Hansard. I wonder whether the committee would be agreeable to having this done?


Does the committee agree to having these figures printed in Hansard?


Supply-Agriculture


When we come to New Brunswick we find that the total of $48,147,000 was exceeded only in 1956 by about $1 million, and in 1952 by $100,000 odd. In the province of Quebec, one of our bigger agricultural provinces, the total is the highest in history, $424 million. The same is true of Ontario, with $873,287,000 of cash income.
The highest previous figure was in 1951, when it was $800 million. In succeeding years it has amounted to $770 million in 1952; $749 million in 1953; $726 million in 1954; $791 million in 1957. Last year it amounted to $873 million. In Manitoba there were only four previous years in which cash income was higher, 1948, 1949, 1951 and 1952. In Saskatchewan there were four years in which income was higher, 1951, 1952, 1953 and 1956. In Alberta there was only one year in which income was higher; that was 1952. In British Columbia, last year was the highest on record. For the country as a whole, of course, this is by far the biggest cash income we have ever had in Canada.
I think these figures are very significant Mr. Chairman. They indicate that a great deal of the talk we have heard about agriculture in 1958 being in a poorer condition than in previous years is incorrect. Agriculture in 1958 was in a better position than in any year since 1953, and I think the figures I have just given the committee are sufficient to indicate that this is the case. I should like to point out also that in 1958 cash income increased by 10 per cent in comparison with 1957; by 74 per cent as compared with 1956; by 20 per cent as compared with 1955, and by 20 per cent as compared with 1954.
At the same time the cost of the goods and services which farmers have had to buy or use increased in 1958 by exactly 1.2 per cent. In other words, the increase in the expenses which farmers have had to bear was considerably less than the increase in their gross income; which means, of course, that their net income has considerably improved. We have no figures yet as to net income, but when those figures come out there is no question but that net income will show a very considerable improvement.


Would the minister permit a question? That comparison of real income with 1951, 1952 or 1953 would not show an improvement?


As far as Ontario and Quebec are concerned I think it would. I have not calculated it. As far as the western provinces are concerned it would not. But real income and other incomes were certainly better in 1958 than in any year since 1953.
[The Chairman.]
It is interesting to look at the statistics with regard to the index of the prices of commodities and services used by farmers. I have had a list prepared which shows not only the index numbers but the percentage increase in costs from one year to another. When we look at these figures we see that a big increase in costs took place between 1946 and 1947 when the cost of the goods and services for which farmers have to pay went up by 8.5 per cent. The biggest jump of all was between 1947 and 1948, when the cost of goods and services went up by 16 per cent in that one year. Then follow two years in which they went up by a little more than 3 per cent each year. Between 1950 and 1951 we find they were up by 9.3 per cent, another big jump, and from 1951 to 1952 by 5.7 per cent. Then we find two years, 1953 and 1954, during which costs fell by about 1 per cent in each year. In 1955 we find costs going up a little, one half of one per cent, 3.9 per cent in
1956.	In 1957 it was 3.4 per cent and then in 1958, 1.2 per cent.
It is quite easy to see from these figures in which years the big increase in farm costs took place. It was during the years up to and including 1952. From then on the increase in costs has been nothing like as marked as it was before and, as I say, last year it amounted to only 1.2 per cent.
This table is of value because I think there are some very serious misconceptions with regard to the rate at which the cost of goods and services for which farmers have to pay has increased, and also in regard to the times at which these increases have taken place. There is one other point I think I should make. These index numbers respecting the prices of commodities and services used by farmers have been prepared for Canada as a whole. There is a separate index for western farmers. The figures it shows are similar to the figures in the index for Canada as a whole. They are a little bit lower. For example, as to the average in 1958 for all Canada, the index number is 258.9. For western Canada it is 256.6.
One thing I think I should point out is that the index for western Canada, which is the best official index that can be used, does not give the true picture with respect to grain production, particularly wheat production. The error in it is owing to the weighting which is given to the labour factor. The economics branch of the Department of Agriculture have produced another index which gives, on the basis of a sampling, how much labour cost western grain producers, wheat producers particularly, and how they are making use of the amount of labour they use. They have a labour rating of

1.2 per cent rather than the D.B.S. rate of 13.9 per cent. Actual investigation as to the amount of labour employed by wheat producers shows that it comes to 1.2 per cent of their expenses rather than the 13.9 per cent which D.B.S. assigns with regard to labour costs.
I might say, of course, that this D.B.S. index is the best official index. It is generally known, however, that the index is out of date and that it is being revised at the present time. I think that is the thing we should keep in mind. The actual true index of the cost of goods and services used by farmers as prepared on the basis of the sampling done by the economics branch is 211.4 rather than 256.5 which is given in the official index.
I have here an interesting table. I do not think I had better take the time of the committee to go over it. Besides, it is extremely difficult to put the point across unless you actually have the document in front of you or are using a blackboard. However, I have here quite an interesting table showing how these various indexes are arrived at and the weighting which is given to each of the factors such as machinery, labour costs, seed, fertilizer and so forth.
At this point I should just like to say that a considerable amount of work is being done in order to improve the statistics with regard to agriculture. There is no question but that a great deal of improvement can be made in that matter. I find that one of the complaints of delegations that come down here is that the statistics with regard to agricultural matters, and particularly with regard to production, are not adequate and thus do not enable them to form judgments as well or as correctly as they would like to be able to form them.
In connection with what I have just said about these index numbers I should like to say that of course no blame attaches to anybody for using the indexes which have been supplied. However, I should like to point out that they do not really give the true picture with regard to western grain production. They tend to distort the matter and show a worse situation than that which actually exists with regard to western wheat producers.
Speaking generally, Mr. Chairman, I make no claim that the farmer is in excellent shape. Anybody who did that would be foolish. I make no claim that there is no reason for concern over the farmer's economic situation. The very reverse is the case. The farmer was in a severe cost-price squeeze for several years up to 1958. Since we have been in office over the last 20 months we
Supply-Agriculture
have followed a long range plan to improve the farmer's position. It will, of course, take time to implement all of this plan, and it will take more time for the effects of the reforms we are making to be fully felt and fully apparent.
The first big step we took in our agricultural program was the passing of the Agricultural Stabilization Act, which during the last year has had an important effect in maintaining and improving the farmer's income. I will not say more on that matter at the present moment.
The other main features of our long range farm program have been mentioned here previously. I will merely indicate them once more. One is an improved system of farm credit. As everyone knows, its was indicated in the speech from the throne that legislation in that regard would be brought in during this session. The same thing applies to a system of crop insurance. Another important matter is soil and water conservation. We have already taken steps in regard to that matter. A final and extremely important matter is that of rural redevelopment in order to look after the farmers on small subsistence farms. According to the last census report, something like 38 per cent of all our farmers had cash incomes of less than $1,200 a year. That is gross income, not net. They had a gross income of less than $1,200 a year. As everyone realizes, that amount is not nearly sufficient to support a farm family. We must take measures to improve the situation of that large segment of our farming population.
The farm situation today, Mr. Chairman, is still far from satisfactory, but

and I should like to emphasize this point-we have made considerable progress. From some points of view 1958 was the best year agriculture has ever had. Certainly it is the best year since 1953 from almost every point of view. Some of the farmers on the prairies say this may be true for eastern livestock and dairy men but not for western grain producers. It is true, Mr. Chairman, that the western farmers had better years in 1951, 1952 and 1953, but those are probably the only years that were better than 1958 as far as western farmers are concerned.
I have here a table which gives the average cash income for farmers from 1951 to 1958 inclusive. It shows that in 1958 the cash income in Manitoba, for example, was better than in any year back to 1953, and was exceeded only in 1951 and 1953 and just barely exceeded in 1952 by about $30 a farm. In 1958 the average cash income in Manitoba was $4,814 a farm. In Saskatchewan the average cash income in 1958 was $5,958 a farm, which was higher than in any year except 1951, 1952 and 1953. In 1954, for

Supply-Agriculture
example, the average cash income was $4,406 per farm. In Alberta the average cash income in 1958 was $6,495 per farm. That figure is the highest on record. As far as Alberta is concerned it indicates the great value of diversified agriculture. In Alberta you have not the dependence on wheat that you have in Saskatchewan. You have a much greater diversification in agriculture, with specialty crops in the irrigated areas and so on. This diversification explains the fact that the average cash income in Alberta is considerably better than that in Saskatchewan and very much better than that in Manitoba.
These figures with regard to average cash income as far as the three western provinces are concerned I think indicate fairly well that 1958 was a reasonably satisfactory year, and particularly that it was a much more satisfactory year than 1954, 1955, 1956 and
1957.
All, this Mr. Chairman, makes one wonder why there is so much complaint at the present time, and in some quarters, so far as the situation of agriculture is concerned. A great deal of the complaint which is coming forward at the present time, I submit, should have come forward in past years rather than now, when the situation is considerably improved over what it was in 1954, 1955, 1956 and 1957.


May I ask the minister a question?


Yes.


Is the minister referring to net income or gross income?


Those figures are for gross cash income.


I should like to remind the minister at this point that a man's fuel and repair bill could easily amount to the figures he has given.


I beg your pardon?


A man's fuel and repair bill could easily amount to the figures the minister has given.


Mr. Chairman, all I can do is give you the statistics to indicate what farm income has been in past years, and to point out that the average cash income in 1958 is considerably better than it was in the four previous years. In the case of Alberta, at least the cash income is higher than it was in any previous year. So far as the figures I have are concerned, they indicate a better position with respect to cash income for farmers across Canada, and they are at an all-time high for this particular year.


Will the minister say what the forecast is for 1959?


I have not come to the forecast for 1959. We are dealing with the situation in 1958 now.


Your officials say it will be worse.


The officials, as a matter of fact, have not made any such prediction.


I have it in my hand.


I have the January bulletin, too, and they say the situation, so far as hogs are concerned, is not going to be as good as it was in 1958; that is quite correct.


They say much more than that.


As a result of that the net income, not definitely but probably, will not be as good as it was in 1958.


In other words it is getting worse.


We are talking now about
1958.	The hon. member for Assiniboia said all during 1958 that the situation was far worse than it had been before. He went all through the country in 1958 saying we had done nothing for agriculture and that the agricultural situation was much worse than it had ever been before.


I said you had not kept your
promises.


Every statistic shows the agricultural situation in 1958 was better than it was in 1954, 1955 and 1956.


These fabricated ones that were brought in this morning.


I regret having to interrupt the minister, but his time has expired. Has the minister unanimous consent to continue his remarks?


Agreed.


Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The stock in trade of the hon. member for Assiniboia is going around the country saying how bad conditions are, and he does not like to hear these statistics which show that 1958 was a considerable improvement over past years.


Is that why the mass delegation is coming to Ottawa.


I must remind hon. members on my left that the minister has the floor, and will they kindly make their remarks in as low a voice as possible.


I may say that all the statistics I have been able to get, and I am

sure all the statistics hon. members opposite will be able to get, indicate that 1958 was an improved year tor agriculture. For example, retail sales are a fairly good indicator. They are at an all-time high in the prairie provinces. I have a list of them here. Retail sales for the prairie provinces as a whole in 1958 were $2,905 million; in 1953, the year to which most people in the west look back as a very good year for agriculture, the retail sales were $2,509 million, about $400 million less than they were last year.
Then if we take the various provinces, we find that in Manitoba the figure was $755 million, the highest figure on record. In Saskatchewan it was $901 million, very considerably the highest figure on record for retail sales. The previous high was in 1957 when the figure was $859,800,000, in 1953 they amounted to $845 million. In Alberta retail sales amounted to $1,248 million, and in 1953 to $987 million. In other words, retail sales in that province were up $260 million.


Would the minister permit a question?


Yes.


Would those figures include retail sales made to everyone or just to agriculture?


No, those are the retail sales made in those three provinces. However, I should like to point out to the hon. member, as he is always pointing out and as is true, that agriculture is the basic industry of these three prairie provinces. The great majority of the people in the three prairie provinces derive their living, either directly or indirectly from agriculture. Therefore if agricultural income is not relatively good, there is not the money available in those provinces to buy goods and services. The fact that the amount of goods and services purchased there was considerably higher in 1958 than in previous years indicates that the situation was not nearly as desperate as the hon. member for Assiniboia is constantly trying to make out.
Now we may go to another statistic which is a pretty good indication of how good or bad the situation is, and that is passenger car sales. We can examine what they were for several years back and make a comparison. The value of new passenger automobiles sold is at a new all-time high in the three prairie provinces. Total sales were $208,708,000 in 1958; in 1953, $182 million; in 1954, $137 million; in 1955, $156 million; in 1956, $180 mllion; in 1957, $204 million, and last year, as I have said, $208 million. The only province in which sales are not considerably up over any previous year is Saskatchewan, where
Supply-Agriculture
they are higher than any time since 1953. These statistics indicate that the farm population is not starving to death; otherwise we would not have statistics of this kind.
Another thing at which I think we should look is the value of farm implements purchased in 1958. These figures are the highest since 1953. They do not, of course, go to anything like the levels of 1951 and 1952, when farmers were re-equipping themselves and completely mechanizing their operations. Most of that machinery is still in good shape and in operation. In 1958 the value of farm machinery purchased in the three prairie provinces was $94,578,000; in 1954 it was $80 million; in 1955, $75 million; in 1956, $92 million; in 1957, $77 million. Once again we find a very considerable volume of farm implements was purchased in 1958.
We have heard, JVlr. Chairman, in this chamber and in other places, a great deal about the cost of production of agricultural commodities. It has been taken for granted by many people, I believe, speaking on agricultural matters that the farmer was not getting the cost of production so far as many commodities were concerned. It may be true that some farmers are not getting the cost of production at the present time, and it may be true as far as some commodities are concerned that the cost of production as a whole is not being secured. But by and large that statement, from the investigation we have been able to make, is not correct.
During the last year and a half in the Department of Agriculture, particularly in the economics branch, we have done a good deal of work on cost of production, and other people have also been working on that problem. Quite a few surveys have been made as to what is the cost of production for raising wheat, for raising hogs, for producing milk, for producing eggs, and so forth. A series of studies by J. W. Clarke of the Kindersley vocational farmers provide information on cost of production as far as wheat is concerned. It shows a wide variation in cost between small and large farms. An allowance of 5 per cent interest on capital and a $3,000 operator's wage was made, in addition to other operating costs. In 1955 the cost per bushel varied from $1.39 for the group of small farms to 72 cents for the group of large farms. That is the cost per bushel of producing wheat in the area he was studing in that year. In 1956 these costs were $1.37 and 97 cents respectively; in 1957, $1.44 and $1.21 respectively.
I would like to emphasize what I said a little earlier, that these studies show a terrific variation in cost between small and large farms. When you come to the cost of

Supply-Agriculture
production per bushel you also have an extremely wide variation, depending on what the yield was in the particular year you are dealing with. If you had a high yield the cost of production per bushel is quite low; if you had a low yield the cost is high. These figures indicate some of the difficulties of trying to arrive at the cost of production per bushel of wheat. It varies terrifically from area to area, from farmer to farmer, from type of soil to type of soil, and from year to year.
The studies of the economics division indicated a variation similar to the studies conducted by Mr. Clarke. In these studies an allowance of 5 per cent on capital and $2,400 for the operator was made. In 1954, with high productivity soil-and in this case we put it on cost per acre rather than cost per bushel-the cost per acre varied from $36 on small farms to $22 on large farms. With medium productivity soil for the same year the cost varied from $28 on small farms to $16.50 on large farms. In 1955 with heavy soil it varied from $26.50 on small farms to $17.50 on large farms. These cost of production figures as far as wheat is concerned, Mr. Chairman, I think are quite interesting.
As far as the costs produced by Mr. Clarke in his studies around Kindersley are concerned, as I say he allowed in these costs 5 per cent return on the capital invested. In 1954 on farms up to 480 acres the cost per bushel was $1.26. In the range from 481 to 960 acres the cost was $1.14, and in larger farms of 961 acres and over it was $1.08 and an average of $1.16. That was with a yield on summerfallow of 21 bushels, and on stubble of 14 bushels. In the next year, 1955, with the same area farms the average cost instead of being $1.16 per bus