Mr. Speaker, ordinarily no reference is made to the presence in the gallery of distinguished visitors, but I am sure the house will allow me on this occasion to make reference to the fact that Right Hon. Harold Macmillan, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and Right Hon. Selwyn Lloyd are in the gallery of the house today, here for a stopover for this day while en route to Washington.
We regret that the Prime Minister found it impossible to address the house and Senate on this occasion, but I am sure I speak for hon. members everywhere in paying tribute to him for the tremendous inspiration he has given to the peoples of the free world, and also that conviction which he and the foreign secretary have given to the assurance of the maintenance of peace in the free world.


Mr. Speaker, may I join with the Prime Minister, on behalf of the official opposition, in the words of friendly welcome that he has just uttered to our distinguished guests, and assure him and the house that we share those feelings of admiration for what the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and his foreign secretary have been doing in recent weeks to safeguard the peace and security of the world.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the C.C.F. party I should like to add my words of welcome to Right Hon. Harold Macmillan and Right Hon. Selwyn Lloyd. We believe their work has been in the interests of world peace and in the interests of free nations everywhere. On behalf of all of us we wish them the greatest success in those endeavours.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday afternoon tragedy walked with the House of Commons. Today we are speaking in memory of Hon. Sidney Smith, the late secretary of state for
external affairs, not in his capacity as such but as one who in the short 18 months during which he was a member of this house earned the friendship of members everywhere in the house and the appreciation of Canadians as a whole for the contribution he made in international affairs on behalf of Canada.
Mr. Smith came into the house with a reputation fully established as one of the great Canadians of his time. One cannot look into the future with any certainty, but I know the house will agree when I say this. Here on the threshold of a new career, had he been spared, the brilliance of his contribution in other walks of life would have been repeated in large measure in this house.
His life was one of service, beginning in the first war when as a young man in his teens he went overseas and served his king and country in the artillery and subsequently in the Royal Flying Corps. On demobilization he continued his studies, first in his own locality at his birthplace of Port Hood and at Windsor in his native province of Nova Scotia. In 1921 he was called to the bar of that province. In the same year he was appointed lecturer at Dalhousie, and soon rose to a professorship. In 1929, after a period as lecturer at Osgoode Hall in Toronto, he became dean of law at Dalhousie.
He was a great university administrator and teacher. His record is enshrined in the hearts of the many thousands of graduates who came under his influence at Dalhousie, Manitoba and Toronto universities. I believe his greatest and most enduring memorial will be the lives of those who came under his beneficent influence in the course of that relationship, unique in its nature, which at all times existed between him and his student body.
His was a life of service and devotion. He had an instinctive genius for human relationships. After becoming a member of the House of Commons and a minister of the crown he visited various parts of the world. Today messages are being received from national and international leaders not only in Canada, in the United Nations and NATO but in the capitals of the world. All of them confirm the estimate that we formed of him and the respect, admiration and affection felt for one who gave so much to his country. Indeed, his loss is being felt throughout the

The Late Sidney E. Smith entire free world to the principles of which he gave unstinting devotion as a happy warrior for peace.
The range of his interests can only be appreciated by those who knew the capacity of his mind and the boundless energy which he possessed. At various times he held the position of president of the national film society, the national council of adult education, the national council of the Y.M.C.A., the national conference of Canadian universities, the United Nations association, the national council of Canadian clubs; as well as chairman of the Canadian youth commission and the national council of the student Christian movement. That is the busy life he led. He was able as well to win renown as a distinguished editor and author of learned journals and legal texts. He was a Queen's counsel in three provinces, a fellow of the Royal society of Canada, and the recipient of many degrees from leading universities in Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom. He was one of those who had the capacity for work above and beyond the normal limits of endurance. He was one who put the demands of duty at all times before other considerations.
I speak as the one who communicated with him in the latter part of August, 1957, when I asked him whether, in view of his experience and knowledge of international affairs and his relationship with the United Nations Organization, he would consider changing his mode of life and entering the cabinet. His answer, which was typical of him, was "If you think I can do something, I shall not fail". No day was too long, no burden too onerous, and all his tasks were undertaken with a cheerfulness and warmheartedness that will not be forgotten. He overtaxed his strength.
It was only a few days ago that I suggested to him that he slow his pace. That was not his nature. His end came suddenly, in a way that most of us would like to pass away, in harness and in the full possession of those attributes and capacities with which he was endowed in such great measure.
To Mrs. Smith and the three daughters go from the hearts of all of us the expression of our sympathy. The monument which Sidney Smith left behind is enshrined in the hearts of all of us.


Mr. Speaker, I would first like to join with the Prime Minister, on behalf of the official opposition and on my own behalf, in the expression of deep and sincere sympathy to Mrs. Smith and the family. I would also, if I may, like to extend our sympathy to


the Prime Minister and the government in the loss of a close friend and a valued colleague.
We are all, of course, very deeply shocked and grieved at his passing; so sudden, so untimely, but so peaceful. It was only last week, Mr. Speaker, that I attended a meeting of the committee on external affairs and Mr. Smith, the minister was there. Behind him to advise him was the assistant under secretary of state for external affairs, Mr. Donald Matthews, and within a week both those men have departed from us. One was a civil servant, quiet, unobtrusive, but dedicated to the service of his country as an official; the other, the minister.
The secretary of state for external affairs was a man who served his country with devotion and sincerity in war and in peace during all his days, from the time of his enlistment as a very young man in the Canadian army in the first war to the very last moment of his life. As an educator, especially, before he joined the government, he made a contribution to the development and progress of this country which will not be forgotten. He was a servant of the state and he was a servant of the people. He has died in action, and his name now appears on the honour roll of sacrifice to his country and to his duty.
His work, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, was both wearing and worrying, but he never spared himself. Yet his happy disposition tended to conceal the strain and fatigue he must have felt. He was that kind of person, smiling and not complaining. As perhaps I have some reason to know, his was an arduous and exacting portfolio and one which he accepted out of that sense of public service which dominated his life, at a time when years of unremitting service in other fields had perhaps given him the right to look forward to easier days. Instead, he began new service in a field in which he was achieving national and international recognition-* though he had only been in office a short time -through his calm good judgment and through his broadminded and forward-looking approach to international problems. It was a field made more difficult for him because, unlike his predecessors, he entered upon it without the advantage of previous experience in parliament or in the work of the department over which he presided.
Today we think of him not only, or perhaps not even primarily, as a minister of the crown, but as a friend, whole souled and great-hearted, with a gift for the bright and kindly word and a genius for comradeship and good companionship; a man who

made friends easily and who kept them just as easily. I was privileged to enjoy his friendship over many years, and that friendship continued without interruption or any lessening after he moved into the office where I once worked and took the seat on the other side of the house which I once occupied.
The country has lost a devoted, sincere and accomplished public servant, and we have lost a friend whom we will not soon forget.


Mr. Speaker, the passing yesterday of Hon. Sidney Smith was a tragic loss for the Canadian nation. I think the statements made by the Prime Minister and by the Leader of the Opposition will be endorsed by every Canadian.
Mr. Smith had a very distinguished career in the service of Canada, a career which began many years before he entered the Canadian House of Commons. He had a distinguished career in the field of education in Nova Scotia, in Manitoba and in Ontario. He possessed those qualities which recommended him to all parts of Canada, to the east, the west and the centre.
Coming in to head the Department of External Affairs was a very onerous and difficult undertaking. I sincerely believe that as the days and months went by during which he occupied that office he displayed a greater and wider grasp of these important world problems. I believe I may say both from the statements Mr. Smith made in public and from conversations I have had with him that in dealing with difficult situations around the world he sought to establish an approach based on common sense, negotiation and peace. I was extremely pleased to see that as his term of office lengthened, greater consideration was given to the emphasis of those things that I am convinced will build an enduring and permanent peace. I have particular reference to the emphasis he placed on the need for the expansion of economic aid. His death yesterday demonstrates to all of us that this man in a very real sense died in the service of his country.
In my association with Mr. Smith and in the association of my colleagues with him I may say that at all times he treated us with respect and as equals. Whenever he acted as our host he was most genial. On behalf of the C.C.F. group I wish to convey to the Prime Minister and to his colleagues our sympathy in their loss. To Mrs. Smith and the three daughters we extend our deep, heartfelt sympathy on the loss of a beloved husband and father.
The Late Sidney E. Smith


Mr. Speaker, I am sure that if all those hon. members who would like to pay a personal tribute to the memory of the late secretary of state for external affairs were to do so it would require several hours. I, too, could pay a personal tribute because I suppose I had known the minister longer than any other hon. member of this parliament. It was my good fortune to attend the first class which he conducted as a lecturer at Dalhousie University after his appointment to that position. I remember his warm personality and the impression he made that morning when to a rather hardbitten group, most of whom were veterans of world war I who had recently returned to Canada, he apologized for being a freshman in the presence of seniors. Over the course of the next month or two the students developed the use of the name Sid Smith by which he has been known ever since.
It is not on a personal basis, however, that I wish to speak this afternoon. I wish rather to speak on behalf of that ancient law school to which he contributed so much and where his name will be enshrined with those of Weldon and MacRae, the deans who predeceased him. I wish also to speak on behalf of that little, old province with its rich history from which he came, of which he was so proud and of which some of us heard him speak with such force and feeling within the last few days. I also wish to speak for that county from which Mrs. Smith comes, where her family and mine have been neighbours for years and where her forebears made such a significant contribution over the last two centuries.
On behalf of that law school, of that university, of that province and of that county I wish to express the sympathy of all those people to Mrs. Smith and to the daughters who, no matter how grievous the shock is at the moment, share the proud memory of a husband and father who attained the status of one of Canada's great citizens.


Mr. Speaker, with the leave of the house I would ask that we revert to motions in order to make a general reference to the state funeral arrangements for the late Hon. Sidney Smith.


Has the Prime Minister leave to revert to motions?


Agreed.


In keeping with the
general tradition, Mr. Speaker, a state funeral will be given for the late Hon. Sidney Smith.

Business of the House
The funeral will take place at 4 p.m. tomorrow at Chalmers United church. That being so, by unanimous consent of the house I move, seconded by the Minister of Public Works:
That when this house adjourns today it stand adjourned until 8 p.m. on Thursday, March 19, 1959.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, if you will hear me I should like to discuss a point of order in an effort to be of assistance in dealing with the business of the house. At the moment there stands in the name of the Leader of the Opposition an amendment to the motion to go into supply. Since that amendment has now been put under orders of the day, and since it concerns Canada-United States relations, and as I am sure the late secretary of state for external affairs would have taken part in the debate, I have this suggestion to make on behalf of the opposition. Out of consideration for the memory of the late Mr. Smith we on this side of the house would be prepared to waive the second day to which we are entitled for consideration of the amendment, and if the government wished to call this matter as the first item of business today we would be prepared to vote on it simply by Your Honour calling for the yeas and nays and without a formal division of the house. I realize, of course, that this suggestion will require unanimous consent.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the government may I thank the hon. member for Laurier for his suggestion, which seems to me to be very fitting. If it is the wish of all members of the house we would ask that this particular item be called as the first order of business today.


I think I called orders of the day, but we have not yet reached that stage on the order paper. If the house is prepared to deal at this time with the suggestion made, may I then ask if it is the wish of the house that the relevant order on the order paper be taken at this time and that the matter be disposed of as suggested by the hon. member for Laurier and concurred in by the leader of the house and the leader of the C.C.F. party? Is that agreed?


Agreed.


May I also make it clear for the guidance of the officials of the house that in disposing of the amendment and motion by a simple division it is the intention that

the supply motion will be considered to be disposed of as if there had been a two-day debate.


Yes, Mr. Speaker; and I
presume the house leader will want to call the various departments he intended to call.


And therefore there will not be a carryover of time under the rules. I appreciate this very amiable solution of a difficulty which was puzzling me to some extent. If it is agreed I shall now put the amendment and motion which stand on the order paper.


The house resumed, from Monday, March 16, consideration of the motion of Mr. Fleming (Eglinton) for committee of supply, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Pearson.
The question is on the
amendment. Those in favour of the amendment will please say "yea".


Yea.


Those opposed to the amendment will please say "nay".


Nay.
Amendment (Mr. Pearson) negatived on division.


The question is on the main motion. Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Sevigny in the chair.
The estimates of the following departments were first taken up and entered for consideration:
DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR General administration-
163. Departmental administration, including grants as detailed in the estimates and the expenses of the international labour conferences, $1,105,745.


261. Departmental administration, $866,273.
372. Departmental administration, $303,040.
Progress reported.
Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether the hon. gentleman will call this question again a week from now. I have information with respect to one person to whom he probably has particular reference, but I have had letters sent to each of the executive members to whom the question refers and I have not heard from them all. Therefore I would prefer to have the question stand for one more week and I will then give a complete answer.


I am willing to have the question stand.


Stand.
Question stands.


1.	Has the Canadian National Railways a retraining program in connection with personnel affected by automation and similar technical developments?
2.	If so, how long has the program been in effect, what is its general policy, and how much money had been expended on it to March 1, 1959?
3.	What numbers of employees have been retrained in the central region under such a program in the (a) running trades: (b) maintenance of way; (c) clerical branches?
4.	On what basis is the employee's income calculated when undergoing such retraining?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to part one is yes. In regard to parts 2 and 3, the management of Canadian National Railways advise that generally speaking a program went into effect as new techniques and forms of mechanization became available, and its aim is to retrain personnel as required. It is not possible to provide an exact breakdown of the number or the cost of the program.
The answer to part 4 is that the employees usually receive on the job retraining and are paid the regular rates of the position. [Later:]
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct to the Minister of Transport a question arising out of his answer to starred question No. 39. Would the minister consider informing the management of the C.N.R. that in the view of the questioner the answer is incomplete and evasive?


Mr. Speaker, I would make this suggestion to the hon. member. I believe he
Starred Questions
is a member of the special committee which meets every year to go over the operations of the Canadian National Railways, and which will be meeting in a few weeks' time, and I suggest that he take that opportunity to question the president, Mr. Donald Gordon, just as thoroughly as he would wish to question him. I know he is capable of such thorough questioning.


1.	Is there a welfare advisory board made up of officials of the Department of National Health and Welfare, plus representatives from the provinces, which meets to discuss and review regulations and procedures in connection with matters such as old age assistance?
2.	If so, how often and when has this board met since January 1, 1955?
3.	Is any consideration being given to having this board meet in 1959?


Mr. Speaker, the
answers are as follows:
1.	Yes.
2.	The advisory board has met once since January 1, 1955, the meeting being held in Ottawa on November 5 and 6, 1956.
3.	Yes.


1.	Has Robert Alexander Cecil Henry, of 1405 Peel street, Montreal, been in the employ of or used as a consultant by the federal government since January, 1952?
2.	If so, what was the nature of such engagements, how much remuneration did Mr. Henry receive annually, and what department or government agency was he paid through?
3.	In this particular period, what positions outside of the government service did Mr. Henry hold?


1.	Were any newspaper or syndicate employees transported to the United Kingdom and to Canadian bases in northwestern Europe during 1957 and 1958?
2.	If so, what were the names of such people, their employees, and the dates on which they were transported?
3.	Were services such as meals, accommodations, etc., supplied for these people? If so, to what persons, at what times, at what cost?
4.	Who arranges such transport and makes arrangements for visits?


Motion No. 23-Mr. Benidickson:
For a copy of all correspondence, and any agreements entered into between the federal government
Motions for Papers
and the government of Ontario since January 1, 1958, relating to the roads to resources program.
Stand.


Mr. Speaker, surely the minister should be able to bring down this return before the recess, perhaps next Wednesday. Can he say anything as to that?


I doubt
whether I will be able to bring down the answers to this motion for papers and motion No. 5 before the recess.


Stand.
Motion stands.


Motion No. 25-Mr. Robichaud:
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents exchanged between the federal government or any official thereof, and the provincial government of New Brunswick, or the New Brunswick electric power commission, with respect to the signing of an agreement for the construction of the East St. John thermo plant, for the period June 1, 1958, to date.
Stand.


This motion has been allowed to stand since January 27. Can the minister tell the house how much longer we will have to wait for the production of the papers?


This matter is still under discussion between the two governments. I can give no indication at this time as to when I will be able to produce these papers.


Stand.
Motion stands.


Motion No. 30-Mr. Argue:
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents exchanged between the federal government and each provincial government since April 1, 1958, regarding the "roads to resources" program.
I shall have to ask that the hon. member allow this motion to stand.
Motion stands.


Motion No. 70-Mr. Argue:
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, reports of other documents exchanged between the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources or either of his deputy ministers, and

Dr. James B. Griffin, director of the museum of anthropology of the University of Michigan, since 1955. relating in any way to the national museum of Canada and its scientific personnel.
Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 71- Mr. Argue:
For a copy of the report submitted by Mr. Jean Gabus to officers of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources on August 19, 1958, relating to the national museum of Canada.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce if he has any comment to make on a press report this morning from Washington to the effect that the United States government has decided that oil import restrictions imposed on the grounds of national security should not apply to Canadian oil?


I have seen the press report to which the Leader of the Opposition refers. We have been in communication with our officials in Washington, but have not had any confirmation of the report. We would welcome some arrangement such as is set out there, but we have no assurance that this will result.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask if the Minister of Trade and Commerce is now in a position to answer the question I directed to him on February 27 with regard to a report on the progress made by the interdepartmental committee to discuss salt fish marketing with members of the industry in Quebec, Nova Scotia and Newfoundland?


I can assure the hon. member I will make a statement on that matter before the house rises for the Easter recess.


On the orders of the day:
I
wonder if I might direct a question to the Minister of Labour which concerns the

Inquiries of the Ministry
labour-management situation at the Polymer forms used by the St. Lawrence seaway au-Corporation in Sarnia. If a strike has been thority are virtually identical with those used called, I wonder if the minister has any report by the municipal grants division of the De-to make to the house.	partment of Finance.


The latest report I have received is that the dispute has gone through the ordinary processes of conciliation and the parties have been carrying on negotiations without arriving at a settlement. There has been a threat of the stoppage of work which, if carried to its conclusion, would continue until Wednesday of next week. It is to be done in progressive stages.
I have been in close touch with this matter, and only this morning dispatched telegrams to both parties urging them to continue negotiations and offering them the services of mediation through the labour department.


On the orders of the day:
I should
like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance of which I have given him notice. At the present time grants in lieu of taxes under the Municipal Grants Act are payable to municipalities for canals, canal lands and properties, which are soon to be taken over by the St. Lawrence seaway authority. My question is, what steps if any must the interested municipalities take to ensure that similar payments will be continued?


I thank the hon. member for giving me notice of his intention to ask this question. The Welland ship canal property of the Department of Transport is to be transferred to the St. Lawrence seaway authority as of April 1, 1959. From this date the responsibility for payment of grants in lieu of taxes on the property transferred will lie with the St. Lawrence seaway authority.
Municipalities containing Welland canal property wishing to continue to receive grants should make applications annually, beginning with 1959, to the St. Lawrence seaway authority on the prescribed application forms. These forms may be obtained by writing to the secretary, St. Lawrence seaway authority, No. 2 building, 70 Lyon street, Ottawa. For the year 1959 it will be necessary also to submit application forms to the municipal grants division in order to receive grants in lieu of taxes for the first three months of the year. While two sets of application forms will be necessary for this one year, there should be a minimum of confusion since the application 66968-9-128


May I ask
a supplementary question. Is the formula in the case of the crown corporation the same as that in the case of the department for such municipal grants?


So far as I am
aware, but I think that question should be directed to the seaway authority.


May I ask the Minister of Transport if there is any difference between the formula for the payment of municipal grants by the corporation rather than by the department?


I shall check up on that detail, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
May I
address a question to the Minister of Transport. It has been announced that Western Airlines, which for many years used Lethbridge, Alberta, airport as its Canadian base, hereafter will bypass Lethbridge in favour of Calgary. Is this change of policy one formulated by the government or by the airline itself, or is it the result of pressure from civic and other groups? Has the contribution of the city of Lethbridge and various groups therein in initiating, and for many years supporting, this air traffic between western Canada and the United States been fully recognized in this decision?


I wish to thank the hon. member for his courtesy in advising me of his intention to ask this question. The hon. member for Medicine Hat has also made numerous inquiries about this matter. I am very glad to be able to answer as follows. In the discussions which took place last week the Canadian officials offered to retain, and urged the retention, of Lethbridge as a Canadian point of call on the trans-border route into Alberta, but the United States wished Calgary to be added as a Canadian terminal on this route in place of Lethbridge, rather than in addition to it. The agreement has had to be concluded on that basis. The position, however, is that if at any time a trans-border carrier wishes to serve Lethbridge I will be quite ready to make traffic rights available in Lethbridge for this purpose without any hesitation.

Inquiries of the Ministry


In
view of the very great interest in this subject on the part of many men in southern Alberta, I should like to ask the minister if this matter could not be reopened with a view to using both airports, at Lethbridge and Calgary?


As I just pointed out, in our discussions last week we urged the United States to include Lethbridge as well as Calgary, but the carrier concerned was not willing to do so. However, if at any time a carrier is willing to call at Lethbridge, we will be pleased to provide the traffic rights.


On the orders of the day:
My
question is to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. In view of the particular interest of some members of the house in the work and productions of the national film board, would the minister inform the house if arrangements could be made for the showing of documentary films in the railway committee room on Wednesday evenings, for the information of members, their wives and guests? In fact I am asking whether a very good practice of some years ago could not be revived.


As the hon. member has said, this was the practice some time ago, but the attendance at these showings was so low and the acoustics in the room were so poor that the showings were discontinued. Subsequently they were shown in another room in the house where the acoustics were a little better, but again the attendance did not warrant the time that was put on the showings.
Consequently this year the film board decided to make available showings of films in their own small theatre on Kent street, and invited small groups of parliamentarians. Since the hon. member himself was one of those who turned up, I am sure he will be interested to know that 30 persons were invited to attend the showing and three showed up. If there is any real indication that there is some support for such a program we shall be happy to resume showings, with the consent of Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of


National Health and Welfare. Having regard to the apparently serious aspect of the Berlin situation, will the minister tell the house if he has any further plans to step up civil defence?


Mr. Speaker, I had expected that a statement on civil defence would have been made to the house prior to this time. Owing to unavoidable delays the statement had to wait a few days. I fully expect that this statement will be presented to the house later this week or, at the latest, in the first part of next week. I think possibly the question would be better answered at that time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that we are to recess in a few days, may I ask the Minister of Labour whether or not he will be introducing the amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act which were referred to in the speech from the throne several months ago, a measure which, as he will understand, will give relief to many thousands of persons now out of work and who cannot qualify for benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows the Unemployment Insurance Act is based on the insurance principle. No such amendment is contemplated in the amendments that will be placed before the house for approval.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice is aware of the fact that the district court of Rainy River has been without the services of a judge for a great number of months partly because the nominal judge for that district when he was appointed formally to the court in Toronto, had been serving in Toronto for many months. In consequence there is a great backlog of judicial work to be done in that county. I would ask the minister to consider this as an urgent matter, and I would hope there is to be an early appointment.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I shall be glad to take into consideration what the hon. gentleman has said.


the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the Senate to Bill C-27, to amend the National Defence Act.


Motion agreed to, amendments read the second time and concurred in.
The house in committee of supply, Mr. Sevigny in the chair.
Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $616,654,878.69, being the aggregate of
(a)	One-sixth of the total of the amounts of the items set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1960, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, $606,770,511.84;
(b)	Five-twelfths of the amount of item 209 of said estimates, $791,666.67;
(c)	One-third of the amount of item 38 of the said estimates, $216,666.67;
(d)	One-sixth of the total of the amounts of items 175. 182, 183 and 358 of the said estimates, $713,163.17;
(e)	One-twelfth of the total of the amounts of items 64, 210, 259, 384, 451 and 454 of the said estimates, $8,162,870.34, be granted to Her Majesty on account of the fiscal year ending March 31 1960.
Mr. Chairman, the amounts proposed in the present resolution are those required to provide for the needs of the public service up to May 31. With the exception of 12 items, the proportion of the total item in the estimates is one-sixth or in other words the equivalent of a straight proportion of two months of the total.
In the case of the 12 items to which I have referred, there are special reasons why the amount is required in excess of the fraction of one-sixth, because these are expenditures of a type that do not fit the program of the year on an even, uniform basis, month by month. I point out to the house, Mr. Chairman, that even in the case of these dozen items in no instance is the total amount of the item being released by the present resolution and the bill to follow. The form of the bill to be presented is the same as that of interim supply bills passed last year.
I give the usual undertaking, Mr. Chairman, that the passing of this bill will not prejudice the rights and privileges of hon. members to criticize any item in the estimates
66968-9-128i
Interim Supply
when it comes up for consideration in committee of supply, and that the rights and privileges of hon. members in this regard will be respected and will not be curtailed or restricted in any way as a result of the passing of this measure.


Mr. Chairman, as the minister has indicated, only $10 million of the $616 million asked as interim supply for the first two months of the fiscal year starting April 1st involves more than one-sixth of the items appearing in the book of estimates for 1959-60. I am well aware that particularly today the house is not in a controversial mood. I am aware also that we are hoping very soon to have a budget which will give us a fairly extensive opportunity to discuss monetary and fiscal policies. On the other hand, despite that introduction I must tell the minister that inasmuch as he did on introducing the new estimates make a fairly extensive statement, which has not been made in that way for quite a number of years, not since 1954, I do take a little exception to the terms of his statement. I thought it was unduly slanted in a political direction, and I therefore feel obliged to say something to the committee at this time with respect to the 1959-60 estimates.
We all know that the minister was one of those who talked a great deal in the past about cutting expenditures. In the statement which he made, in the form in which he utilized the combination of figures, and in the place in his statement where he put what was a very interesting statement, I find that he made matters controversial and unduly political. I do not feel that this is desirable on the introduction of the estimates for the year, particularly as one knows that those who heard the statement on that occasion have had no advance notice of the items in the statement. They are very complicated and very difficult to reply to at that time.
One of the difficulties for members of the house hearing a statement of that kind is that a speaker often is not comparing oranges with oranges. The minister on that occasion directed his statement in such a way that we were really unknowingly, to many I am sure, comparing oranges with grapefruit, as one might say. He compared the first proposals of expenditure for the new year 195960 in the main estimates then tabled with the total expenditures in the main estimates of a year ago; with besides the supplementary estimates, plus supplementary estimates No. 1; and third, also supplementary estimates No. 2. He related the total of his proposed new expenditures for the forthcoming year to the main expenditures and these additional expenditures known to February 5 for the current year.

Interim Supply
If one were comparing equals, what we really should consider is the fact that the main estimates for this year total $5,595 million, compared with $5,179 million at the same stage of proposed expenditures a year ago. That is an increase of $416 million. This, in itself, is confusing and I think that the minister in addition, putting at the top of his second paragraph this statement, has done something which has resulted in publicity favourable to him, perhaps, but I do not think it presents the true state of the financial proposals for the coming year. These were the words of the minister, as reported on page 705 of Hansard for February 5, 1959. This was the emphasis, the impression, he wanted to give, not only to this house but to the country at large. He said:
The most noteworthy feature is that compared with those for the present year, 1958-59, these estimates provide for a decrease of $39.1 million in the non-statutory items.
Mr. Chairman, the minister and some of us on this side do at times find difficulty in reconciling our methods of calculation and arithmetic, but I would like the minister to tell us before the item is passed whether or not he has an explanation for what I consider to be a departure from a justifiable practice in arriving at his conclusion, namely that there was a reduction of $39.1 million in non-statutory expenditures. Because when I examine in the blue estimates book the statement that was prepared a year ago, presented to the press on May 13, 1958, it was calculated that the statutory items amounted to $1,788 million. This year when the minister is making a comparison between statutory items for last year and this year he refers to an item of $1,766.8 million. This I found very hard to reconcile; but afterwards I found that, differing from the similar press statement of last year, there has been omitted this year with respect to last year's statutory items an item of $12 million with respect to the C.B.C., which appears on page 10 of last year's estimates. In addition, in this new figure relating to last year's statutory items, the reference to $12 million for C.B.C., there is omitted $10 million with respect to a special statutory item of last year relating to taxation sharing with the provinces on electricity companies. The result is that you have $22 million which appeared last year as statutory but does not appear the same way this year. If the minister had used the same yardstick, he would not have been able to use the figure of $39 million, but it would have been $22 million less than the figure that he used so very conspicuously and prominently put at the masthead of his statement to the house and to the press, which was of course circulated to the country.

As I say, in addition to that he was comparing, not the main estimates this year with the main estimates at the same stage last year, but related to the main estimates plus all the known expenditures of last year up to date, which included supplementary estimates. This is certainly misleading, and with respect to the statutory item on the C.B.C. which was described as such in last year's estimates at page 10 I frankly cannot account for the failure to include that in the press release figure of approved statutory items for last year. With respect to the special compensation to the provinces of $10 million to which I have referred, I can see that there has been some change in the intended practice there because last year we did have a special statute which authorized this particular transfer of federal funds to the provinces. However, it had an expiry date limiting its application to one year. This year the item is apparently not intended to be a statutory item, because we have an item in the estimates presumably now non-statutory for this purpose.
The effect of this kind of bookkeeping is that the minister's figure of $39 million, representing so-called reductions of controllable or non-statutory expenditure, is larger than, I suggest, it is fair for the minister to use in deference to the house. I think matters of this kind should not involve sleight of hand or gimmicks, but that the minister should at all times be completely frank with the house and with the public. I should appreciate knowing why the two items to which I have referred were not included again in this year's press release and why the minister has changed the figure from $1,788.1 million, representing last year's statutory items, and used this year the figure of $1,766.8 million.
We have, of course, seen a great deal of inconsistency from the treasury benches this session in relation to what we were led to believe was to be the policy of the government and, in particular, the policy of the Minister of Finance in fiscal and monetary matters. I think the committee is well aware that the minister wasted no time after being sworn in to his present position in June, 1957 before meeting the press, and one of the many things he said would be accomplished under his guidance, as reported in the first paragraph of an article in the Ottawa Journal on June 26, 1957, at a press conference was an undertaking that he would declare war on waste and extravagance. I have indicated that comparing the main estimates this year with the main estimates last year we find an increase of $416 million. 1 recall some strong statements made by the minister when he was in opposition on this as on many other matters, and again I point out to the committee that he is unduly acrobatic, and that this is

another occasion when we are witnessing a very remarkable somersault.
I should like to make some general remarks to the minister in connection with interest rates, because in the statement he made on February 5 he pointed out that one of the chief items of increase in the estimates for the forthcoming year as compared with the current year was the item of an increase of $106 million accounted for by the necessity of paying larger amounts in interest on the public debt. It is in this connection that I find, in odd comments made by the minister during the present session, an unwillingness, again, to be frank with the house. I think that many of the minister's statements this session, particularly on the subject of interest rates, have been unduly fatuous and, indeed, vacuous. I will give the committee an example of what I have in mind. How can anybody either in this chamber or outside reconcile statements of the minister with his past onslaughts on tight money or, indeed, with the present facts in relation to high interest rates? On page 997 of Hansard the minister is reported as saying:
No one can accuse the present government of doing anything to create an increase in interest rates.
All right. Would the minister say something about what this government has done to reduce interest rates? He says he has done nothing to increase them. I should like to know what is different about the present government's performance in relation to the central bank, the method of selling treasury bills, marketable securities or any other type of government security, from that which he criticized when he was on the hustings and talking about the tight money policy.
I regret having to point out some of the very unfortunate circumstances surrounding the cost of money today, not only to the federal government but to other governments and to the private commerce of our country. I know that we have been told, not only in recent debates but even last year-and when the Conservatives were in power in the thirties they had the same argument to make in reply to any criticism by the opposition; they inferred that criticism was disloyal and that the communists might hear it-


Would the hon. gentleman permit me to interrupt him? Is he proposing now to embark on a full dress debate on these questions? I ask this because he, I think, must recall the words that were very often used in the past by my predecessors, particularly by Mr. Abbott, who consistently took the stand that a motion for interim supply was not an appropriate motion for opening up a general debate. Mr. Chairman, we are going to have a budget debate
Interim Supply
soon, and I call to the attention of all hon. members that an undertaking is always given by the Minister of Finance, when the present type of motion for interim supply is under consideration, that the full rights of all members will be respected and that they will be able to discuss any item of supply when it is called in due course in committee of supply. The whole purpose of such an undertaking is to avoid duplication of debate. It was never intended that a motion for interim supply should be the occasion for a full dress debate.
This is not a motion to resolve the house into committee of supply, upon which it would be appropriate to raise questions which might be called grievances, or to introduce amendments in relation to matters upon which the house might wish to divide. The hon. gentleman is familiar with these procedures, and has had experience with regard to them, having been parliamentary assistant to the minister of finance when this same position was consistently taken by my predecessors. He will appreciate that if a motion for interim supply is to be made the occasion for a general debate, it will simply mean that there is bound to be a very extended discussion. Is it not the wish of the committee that this course is the one which should be taken, having regard to the program which is still before us and the number of items to be passed before the Easter recess?


Mr. Chairman, may I refer to Beauchesne's Fourth Edition, page 192, 59(2), which simply says:
Speeches in committee of the whole house must be strictly relevant to the item or clause under consideration.
As we are voting one-sixth of the whole budget for 1959-60, I think the remarks which are being made on the general nature of the administration are relevant, and even if it has been the custom in the past, on certain occasions, not to have a full-fledged debate on these matters I think the hon. member should be permitted to continue his remarks on the general nature of the estimates now before the committee.


Mr. Chairman, the Minister of Finance has done as his predecessors have done, and is pointing out that subsequent debate will not be denied to members of the house, because no one item is being completed under the resolution he is presenting. That never in the past restrained the Minister of Finance and his associates when they were on the opposition side of the house from debating particular items which they felt could not wait for the estimates to come up.


That is not true.


That is certainly true. It reduced debate undoubtedly because we were

Interim Supply
not going to discuss every item with respect to the numerous entries in the blue book but there never has been a denial of hon. members' rights at this stage to speak if they felt the requirement, on a particular item which in their opinion they felt was of sufficient urgency that discussion should not be delayed. I say that an item in the new estimates of expenditure that involves almost 25 per cent of the increase in expenditures amounting to some $400 million odd to which I referred is worthy of a little consideration at this stage. I am not trying to be unpatriotic in making some reference to this very important question. I intend to be brief with respect to it but I must point out to the committee that the bond market of this country is indeed in a real crisis with respect to confidence respecting federal government securities.
The interest rates that are being paid for federal bonds are at a differential in relation to those paid by high grade private corporate bond issues that was never so narrow as at the present time indicating that the traditional premium of confidence in federal government bonds does not prevail at the present time.


Mr. Chairman, may I ask the hon. gentleman a question. Does he think it is a very responsible course to pursue the line he is following now knowing that the effect of it can only be to hurt the credit of this country when we have to go to the bond markets?


Mr. Chairman, on that point of order-


That was not a point of order; it was a question.


I should like to answer the ques