Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. In committee on Wednesday I claimed that bonds were advertised in units of up to $1 million, and the Minister of Finance said, "How ridiculous can you become?" I have here a pamphlet from the Bank of Canada, authorized by the Minister of Finance, indicating that these bonds were available in units of up to $1 million.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member, in referring to this matter of the issuance of bonds in denominations of $1 million as well as smaller denominations, used this to base a statement that the government was interested in obtaining borrowings from big interests. The fact is that the denominations in which the last bonds were issued are precisely the denominations which have prevailed in government issues for some years. It suits the convenience of some purchasers of bonds-insurance companies, banks and others-to take them in these larger denominations; but the denominations are precisely those which have prevailed for some years. There are smaller denominations as well as the larger ones, and we are glad to have the opportunity of doing business with everybody who wishes to buy Dominion of Canada bonds on the terms on which they are offered. There is no justification whatever for the statement made by the hon. member that this was an attempt to tailor this issue to larger interests.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will be in a position soon to announce the appointment of a commissioner of the R.C.M.P., and whether he can give the house an assurance that the appointment will be made from within the force?


Mr. Speaker, I think that question should be appropriately asked of the Minister of Justice.


Mr. Speaker, I have had indications of concern about this matter from other hon. members, particularly the hon. member for Athabasca. In reply I should say that no consideration whatsoever has been given, or is being given, to the appointment of someone from outside the force as commissioner; no consideration whatsoever. We expect in the immediate future to be making a recommendation for the appointment of a commissioner from within the R.C.M. police, and as soon as the recommendation has been dealt with an appropriate announcement will be made.


The reason I asked the question of the Prime Minister was that the commissioner, as I understood it, has the status of a deputy minister; that therefore the appointment was to be made by order in council on the recommendation of the Prime Minister.


Mr. Speaker, I can understand that, but this matter comes particularly under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice, and I know the Leader of the Opposition will be very pleased at the answer which represents the viewpoint of the government.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if the Prime Minister could tell the house whether, following the important visit of Prime Minister Macmillan and Mr. Lloyd to the United States, arrangements have been made with the Canadian government for further consultations on the ministerial level, or what steps will be taken for further consultation on these very important questions?


Mr. Speaker, at the moment I have nothing to report in that connection. I outlined last evening something of the general situation. Of course this is a matter which is constantly before us, and we intend to exert every influence to the end that tensions may be relieved or diminished.

Inquiries of the Ministry


I wonder if the Prime Minister can say whether a report will be made to him following these important discussions, in any event?


There is continued communication, Mr. Speaker, and this government is kept fully advised as to those things which are happening which are of world interest and are known to other allied countries.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of Trade and Commerce if he is not now in a position to say that there was no foundation in fact for the story suggested the day before yesterday, and referred to by the Leader of the Opposition by way of interrogation, to the effect that the United States government was going to relax its mandatory curbs on Canadian oil imports on the ground of national security? Is it not a fact that there is now found to be no foundation for the story whatsoever?


I can find no foundation in fact for the story.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Is the minister in a position today to give the statement on salt fish marketing which he promised would be given before the Easter recess?


Mr. Speaker, this is a
repetition of a question which was asked me on March 18, when I gave an assurance that I would make a statement on this matter before the house rises for the Easter recess.


When does the minister propose to make it?


Before the Easter recess.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, last evening the hon.

member for Laurier directed a question to me which will be found on page 2050 of Hansard. The question was as follows:
I should like to know if arrangements have been made or are being made to renew the commonwealth air agreement. The Prime Minister will probably remember that the late secretary of state for external affairs on two occasions said that the air agreement had been extended first to February 6 and later to March 11.
On February 6 and February 17 the house was informed that Canada was pressing for a continuation of air services between Australia and Canada which were endangered by technical considerations concerning the frequency and capacity of flights. Full discussion of the present bilateral air agreement will take place in Australia early in April, and my hope is that the Australian government, like the Canadian government, desires to maintain and perhaps extend this tangible and mutually beneficial link between the two countries. Meanwhile authority has been granted to extend the temporary permits for weekly flights while discussions take place.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Has the minister noticed in this morning's press a statement emanating from Toronto with respect to compensation for animals lost through rabies? If so, would the minister evaluate these reports and perhaps give the house any further information he has concerning this matter?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I saw this statement, and I may say that we have been carrying on negotiations with the Ontario department of agriculture with regard to working out a joint dominion, provincial and municipal form of assistance to those who have lost animals as a result of rabies. The federal Department of Agriculture will share in a county-provincial program to indemnify Ontario farmers who suffer heavy livestock losses from such epidemics. Other provinces which may wish to enter into a similar scheme would, of course, be eligible.
Responsibility for initiating the plan will rest with the county authorities. They will value the animals, pay the owners, and then will be eligible for reimbursement to the extent of 80 per cent of the amount paid, which will be shared equally by the province and the federal government. In short, the

cost will be shared 20 per cent by the county, 40 per cent by the province and 40 per cent by the federal government.
Compensation will be paid on animals certified by federal veterinarians as having died from rabies on or after April 1, 1958. Maximum values for compensation purposes will be $250 for cattle, $100 for horses, and $40 for sheep, swine and goats. The livestock toll recorded from April 1, 1958, to February 28 this year included 1,149 cattle, 48 horses, 122 sheep, 19 hogs and 1 goat.
The indemnification program is not being undertaken as a disease control measure under the provisions of the Animal Contagious Diseases Act. The arrangements will, however, help to offset heavy economic losses, and encourage farmers to report suspected rabies infection. This in turn will aid federal veterinarians in locating disease outbreaks and instituting control measures.


On the orders of the day:
Hon.	J. W.	Pickersgill (Bonavista-
Twillingafe): In view of recent press reports I wonder whether the hon. lady, the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, could report to the house on the peace negotiations she has been carrying on with the Six Nations Indians.
I think they were faithfully reported in the press. It is my hope that the matter has now been settled amicably. I cannot make any report with regard to prosecutions that are under way because, as the hon. member knows, they are being handled this morning in Brantford, but it is our expectation that these also will be handled in a manner that will meet with the approval of those concerned. The elected council will be meeting shortly and we will have a report from them, but my understanding of the situation is that all is now quiet on the Six Nations reserve.


Mr. Speaker, I congratulate the hon. lady on her capacity to make peace, but I was a little disturbed and I think perhaps other hon. members were disturbed by a report that I heard about which I should like to ask the hon. lady, to the effect that she has directed the magistrate's court to give suspended sentences. I am sure the hon. lady would like an opportunity to deny that report.


Mr. Speaker, at no time did I see or hear any such report, and I would never have the temerity at any time
Inquiries of the Ministry to interfere with the courts. I did agree to suggest to the Minister of Justice that he might care to handle the matter in whatever manner was appropriate within his own department.


Perhaps I should ask the hon. lady if she would not like an opportunity to correct the reports that were broadcast on the C.B.C. this morning.


Mr. Speaker, I have no desire to correct something that I have not seen nor heard.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the announcement yesterday that our government's treasury bills are bearing an all-time high interest rate, namely 4.22 per cent, can the minister explain the reason for the growing spread between interest rates on United States and Canadian treasury bills, and is the government contemplating any action to reduce our bank rediscount rate so as to aid economic recovery and provide employment?


Order. This is a very large order the hon. member is proposing. I do not see how it could possibly be dealt with in a short reply and I suggest that it be reserved for a more appropriate occasion.


Mr. Speaker, on the point of order you have raised, I would suggest that this question about central bank rediscount rates is an important question and one that should be raised in the house. In addition to that, over a period of many years the Minister of Finance himself very frequently raised this very important question. While it may be true that the phrasing should have been more direct, that is for Your Honour to decide, but with great deference I would submit that the subject matter of the question is very much in order.


I am dealing only with the question which was proposed. It was a series of questions, bringing in unemployment as well as interest rates, and I do not see that I could really allow that question to proceed as phrased.


In that case, Mr. Speaker, may I reword what I am after. I would ask the minister if the government is contemplating
2072	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry any moves that will halt our rapidly rising interest rates on government treasury bills.


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member on reflection will realize that this is not the sort of matter that is dealt with on the orders of the day. So far as measures are concerned that would be of interest to people operating in the money markets, I think he will appreciate that we do not give out that kind of information publicly. As to matters pertaining to government policy, those will be made known to the house on the proper occasion.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the hon. Secretary of State a question?
Could the Secretary of State tell this house if cabinet approval was required for the printing of bilingual House of Commons letterheads for the use of hon. members?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is no.


In that case, Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the minister a supplementary question.
Is the issue of negotiable government instruments subject to the approval of the cabinet and of parliament?


The answer is yes.


Oh no, it is not.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the hon. Secretary of State a question arising from the answer he gave a moment ago. Could he tell us if special legislation was needed for the issue of bilingual stamps, under Mr. Veniot, and the issue of bilingual money under the Mackenzie King administration?
(Text):


Order. It seems to me that the hon. member is asking questions about a matter on the order paper which is before the house for determination.


No, Mr. Speaker.


Did he refer to bilingual stamps or bilingual cheques?


Mr. Speaker, an answer was given to a question a while ago-


I would ask the hon. member to address himself to the difficulty which I raised, namely that this matter is on the order paper for determination by the house.


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, may I say this. The question which the hon. member asked is not one which is now on the order paper. He was directing his question to bilingual stamps and bilingual money, and it was in reply to a question answered already by the Secretary of State. I therefore submit with deference that his question is in order.


Then I withdraw the objection I raised. I thought the translation was perhaps faulty in referring to bilingual stamps, because I understand we have bilingual stamps.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, that is precisely the point. In view of the earlier answer by the hon. Secretary of State, I wanted to know from him, because he has the relevant records on hand, if special legislation was needed for the issue of bilingual stamps under Mr. Veniot, and the issue of bilingual money under the Mackenzie King administration.


Under the Bennett government.


Under the Bennett administration there were two issues of coins, one in French and the other in English.


Mr. Speaker, I shall check the facts and inform the hon. member later.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question.
Has the minister considered the possibility of stabilizing maple product prices?
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, I should like to thank
the hon. member for giving me notice of this question, and in reply would say that in 1958 there were extensive discussions between the groups producing maple sugar and maple products and the stabilization board. As a result of those discussions it was agreed that the Agricultural Products Co-Operative Marketing Act provided the most appropriate

basis for dealing with marketing problems in the Quebec maple products industry, rather than putting those products under price supports under the Agricultural Stabilization Act.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Transport whether he is aware of the press report this morning that the Canadian National Railways firemen intend to strike? If so, has he any comment to make on it?


I saw the report, Mr. Speaker, and I have no comment to make on it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. The Toronto press of March 12 carried stories of Canadian National plans for the creation of a large freight marshalling yard and new railway lines required to give access to this yard. Is the minister in a position to make a statement with regard to these proposals, and can he advise the house respecting the improvement in commuter services which can be made when these facilities have been completed?


I wish to thank the hon. member for advising me of his intention to ask this question. For some time now the Canadian National Railways has been studying its freight handling facilities serving metropolitan Toronto, and has included in its 1959 capital budget an item covering the acquisition of land required for the construction of a large marshalling yard in the township of Vaughan, together with necessary connecting trackage. Parliament in due course will be asked to pass enabling legislation.
With regard to commuter service, when the new yard and access lines have been built the present congestion in the approaches to the terminal area will be lessened, which should make physically possible additional commuter operations. The management of the railway has already initiated preliminary studies in anticipation of an approach on behalf of the Toronto area commuters, and is prepared to discuss with the authorities concerned the question of increasing its commuter operations in the greater Toronto area on the understanding that the railway will
Inquiries of the Ministry be able to recover from fares and otherwise the full costs of such services.


May
I ask a supplementary question. Did I understand the minister to say in his statement that if the municipalities concerned offered to subsidize this operation the railway would inaugurate additional commuter services?


That is correct.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Has the minister read the news report in the Regina Leader-Post, dated March 16, headed "No Defence Is Claimed". I raise this question because it is a most disturbing news report. It states in part:
The report, prepared by Lieutenant General Howard Graham, is also said to claim that the Canadian civil defence organization, for practical purposes, is non-existent.
Would the minister inform the house if there is a basis in fact for this news report?


Mr. Speaker, I have not actually seen the news report referred to, but I can assure the hon. member that there is no basis in fact for such a statement.


May I ask
the Minister of National Health and Welfare a supplementary question, arising out of that posed by the hon. member for Kootenay West. Can the minister confirm whether or not it is true that part of the functions of civil defence, now under his authority, are to be transferred to the office of the privy council, and certain other portions of his responsibilities to the Minister of National Defence?


Mr. Speaker, in answer to a question on Wednesday last I said that a statement would be made in the house either by the end of this week or, at the very latest, in the first part of next week.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question to direct to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources, and I regret that I was not able to give him notice of it. I wonder if the minister is able to indicate

Inquiries of the Ministry whether the Fraser river board will be reappointed so that it may continue its existence and activities beyond the end of this month which, under present arrangements, is the date upon which the board must cease to function.


This matter is under discussion and negotiation between the two governments, and when this process has been completed an announcement will be made.


I wonder if the minister has any hope that the negotiations or discussions will be completed before the end of this month. Could he give any indication of that?


Yes, the minister is hoping that the negotiations can be completed by the end of this month.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if I may ask the minister from Newfoundland whether he was invited by the mayor of Bell Island to visit Newfoundland to discuss the impending lay-offs in the iron mines, and if so what his intentions are in this regard.


Mr. Speaker, I did receive an invitation from the mayor of Bell Island, after he had thanked me for the services I had already given in connection with the matter. I might say that if the ferries are operating between Portugal Cove and Bell Island I intend to visit there during the Easter recess.


As a supplementary question, may I ask the minister whether the lay-offs, which I believe were scheduled to take place tomorrow or the next day, are going to take place, or whether the minister has been successful in having them postponed?


I am not sure under what heading of the minister's responsibility this comes.


Perhaps I might clarify it. The minister said he had received thanks from the mayor of Bell Island for services he had rendered. I was seeking to find out what the services were.


If I may be
permitted to reply, the mines are not going to close tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if the Prime Minister could bring the house up to date as to what progress has been made in obtaining additional contracts for the A. V. Roe industry, and more particularly what success he has encountered in doing those things which would provide more employment for the unemployed persons?


Mr. Speaker, I think this is one of those questions that are totally inappropriate on the orders of the day.


I would ask the Prime Minister if he does not think the widespread unemployment in the Avro industry is an important matter upon which to rise on orders of the day.


I would ask the hon. gentleman whether the impropriety of asking a question that is inappropriate on orders of the day justifies the kind of observation he has made.


Mr. Speaker-


Sit down.


I would remind the Prime Minister that the Minister of Finance, in the Prime Minister's absence on February 27, made a comprehensive statement of actions the government was taking with regard to unemployment in this industry. I suggest it is most appropriate to ask whether or not any further developments have taken place since that time.


Mr. Speaker, that is a question that is proper, and I have no hesitation in saying there has been further and continued consultation in respect of this matter, and there has been a canvass made with the principals of the company for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not available contracts might be assured to that company, and that is the position of affairs. The company is engaged in endeavouring to secure contracts which would be available or should be available to that company if it is able to meet the competition that exists.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question of the Prime Minister. I think last week he promised me an answer


as far as the civil service commission was concerned and as to the jurisdiction of the Postmaster General in connection with the mail carriers. As the newspaper says today, there will be a large meeting again in connection with the civil service commission and the salaries of the postal employees. Possibly the Prime Minister could give us an answer as to who is going to see about the matter of those grievances, and who is going to try to settle them before it is too late.


I thank my hon. friend for the very courteous way in which he has presented a question that I should have answered the other day. However, I will let him have an answer on Monday, and I think that will satisfy him.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. It is a repetition of a question I asked on February 13. The fact that he took it as notice and has not answered it might indicate that it was not urgent. However, it dealt with shipping and trade and the question of United States subsidization of ships calling at Canadian ports in this coming season. The season is very close to us. Not only one line but another line is being considered in the United States for subsidization. I would ask the minister whether any consideration has been given to protecting Canadian shipping interests against this particular kind of subsidized competition.


Mr. Speaker, I will look back at the question that was put forward on February 13. I think the matter properly lies with another department, but we will give this matter consideration.


the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the Senate to Bill C-26, to amend the Northwest Territories Act.


Motion agreed to, amendments read the second time and concurred in.
20, 1959	2075
Supply-Labour SUPPLY
The house in committee of supply, Mr. Sevigny in the chair.
The house in committee of supply on further supplementary estimates: Department of Labour, vote 751, found at page 5 of further supplementary estimates, the details on page 19. Shall vote 751 carry?


Mr. Chairman, may I suggest that we revert to vote No. 750, which was the one allowed to stand last night.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR Special services-
750.	To provide for expenses of the special services branch including expenses for the promotion of a program for combating seasonal unemployment, the organization and use of workers for farming and related industries and assistance to the provinces under agreements entered into with the provinces by the Minister of Labour with the approval of the governor in council, and the movement, reception, supervision and welfare of workers from outside Canada to work on farms and other essential employment where Canadian labour is not available to meet the need-further amount required, $100,000.


Shall vote 750 carry?


Is the minister going to give the answers now?


Mr. Chairman, I was asked questions last night concerning expenditures and commitments to date in connection with the publicity program undertaken with a view to assisting in meeting the problem of seasonal unemployment in the winter, in the light of recommendations made last summer by the national winter employment conference which was convened in Ottawa. The information as to expenditures and commitments to date is as follows. The amount actually expended to March 20 is $127,579.36. That amount was devoted to the following purposes.


Can the minister just tell us what was the total of the vote?


The total amount proposed for the item will be $297,500. I have indicated that of that sum the amount expended to March 20 is $127,579.36. The balance required to March 31 is estimated at $169,920.64. I shall now give the breakdown of the amount actually expended to March 20.


I am trying to get these figures accurately. If the minister would not mind an interruption, I should like to get confirmations of my understanding. He said that $127,000 had been spent.


Yes.

Supply-Labour


And that the vote was $297,500?


Yes.


Can the minister tell us how much was spent out of the unforeseen vote?


I propose to do that. I am dealing now with the amount actually expended: newspaper publicity, $29,350.40; radio, $33,860.02; television, $31,507.64; films, $250; posters, streamers, staffers, postal dies, recording tapes, etc., $32,611.36, making a total of $127,579.36. The commitments to the end of this month-that is the end of the fiscal year-including those sums actually expended amount to $295,000 at this present time. That sum is divided as follows: newspaper publicity, $121,000; radio, $38,500; television, $33,500; films, $8,000, and posters, streamers, staffers, postal dies, recording tapes, advertising production costs, $94,000, making a total of $295,000.
This total of $297,500 estimated to be required to March 31 is proposed to be provided as follows. The sum of $62,300 was transferred within this item from surpluses from other allotments within the scope of the vote at the last session. That has left actual requirements of $235,200. I pointed out last night that in the main estimates an aggregate of $140,200 had been provided, and we are now proposing to add $95,000 to this sum by the present item.
The remaining question was as to the advertising agency which had been engaged for this purpose. That agency is the McKim agency of Toronto, and the expenditures to March 20 are $95,140.06 for their work in relation to the program. The expenditures for the publicity undertaken and arranged by them and the commitments to March 31 through that agency will amount to $242,500. The balance of the proposed aggregate appropriation is being spent by the department itself on outlays through the queen's printer, unemployment insurance offices, and media of that nature.


Could the minister tell me at what date the department first engaged the services of the McKim agency?


I cannot give my hon. friend the date on which they were retained for this particular purpose, but I Will find out and communicate with him.


Mr. Chairman, may I ask what is the percentage on which McKim is working on this particular contract?


I think my hon. friend is aware that advertising agencies do not make any charge or fee direct to the

person who engages their services. In all these cases their services are recompensed by arrangements which they make with the medium with which they deal. There is a standard percentage, but that is no part of any agreement which the government has made with the agency.


Mr. Chairman, I feel that this is a fundamental part of the cost. I understand that there are different rates not only for a single campaign but for different media within the campaign, and I am wondering whether any consideration has ever been given to checking or establishing a set rate for government work in that regard.


The government does not pay any fee for this service. It is standard practice in the advertising business, I am informed, that the regular charges are made by the various publicity media, in this case to the government, and the advertising agency simply collects its fee by arrangement with those who are proprietors of the media themselves.


Just to clarify this point, Mr. Chairman, if the minister would inform me, I understood he said that the figure of $295,000 would cover not only commitments but expenditures made in the past, and commitments to March 31 of course, under the items of newspapers, radio, TV, films, posters, and so on. Is that correct?


Yes. The figure of $295,000 represents commitments made to March 31, including expenditures already made. This will leave $2,500 out of the $297,500 aggregate to take care of any possible additional commitments that might be made between now and the end of the month. But at the present time it would appear that the $295,000 will cover all commitments up to March 31 which have been entered into at this time.


The detail in the main estimates at page 258 presented the original forecast for newspaper, radio, film and other publicity as $140,200. The $295,000 which we refer to will be made up of this $140,200 plus the portion for that item which comes in this item for $100,000. Is that correct?


There is the sum
of $95,000 in this item for that purpose.


Yes, $95,000 plus certain surplus funds which were not used for other functions within the item?


Yes,


That being so, I did not
understand when the minister said that under this item $95,000 had already been paid for services which were handled by the McKim

agency. I took him to say that there would be additional commitments to be paid to this agency. Did I get him right that it was $242,000, or was it $142,000?


No. The commitments through the McKim firm to March 31 of $242,500 of course include the expenditure already made through that firm to March 20 of $95,140.06.


I wonder if the minister could tell us if all the moneys being spent or committed for newspaper advertising is spent in regard to newspapers printed in either the English or French languages?


I do not know that I quite follow my hon. friend's question. Is he asking me if it is all spent on newspapers which-


If I may put it another way, is any part of it being spent in other than English or French language newspapers?


I will have to make inquiries about that. At the moment I do not think I can tell my hon. friend whether this type of advertising is confined to the larger dailies, which would mean English and French language newspapers, or whether any part of it has gone to the so-called ethnic press; but I will be glad to make inquiries about that and inform my hon. friend.


Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask a rather hypothetical question and would like an opinion from the minister. I think it will be worth while to have some idea of the per capita cost of getting men back to work through such a campaign. If we accept the figure given I believe by the hon. member for Essex East, the winter work program has managed to employ approximately 30,000 people this winter. If the cost involved in putting 30,000 people to work is approximately $295,000, we have an approximate per capita cost of around $10 for each man put back to work under this winter work program.


My hon. friend very properly said his question was a hypothetical one, and I think it illustrates the danger of attempting to ask or deal with hypothetical questions. We are not dealing here with the government's own winter work program. We are dealing here with a publicity program that was undertaken by the government at the request of the national conference last summer, which included groups of employees, groups of employers and others, with a view to bringing home to Canadians in all walks of life the fact that there is work which can be done in
Supply-Labour
the winter months, thus providing employment. It was hoped that people would address themselves to the desirability, and very often the advantages, of having work done in the winter rather than in the seasons when in times past it has been more customary for people to have that type of work done.


Mr. Chairman, what we are dealing with, of course, is the expenditure of money for the purpose of putting people to work in the winter. I would ask the minister if he feels that the expenditure in question, which I think now totals $158,000 or some such figure, has been justified by the results achieved.


Naturally as chairman of the treasury board I have made it my business to inquire of the Department of Labour as to whether in their view the results have been commensurate with the expenditure. There can be no doubt that in their view the results have thoroughly justified this expenditure. I emphasize that this expanded publicity program was strongly recommended by the national conference which met last summer. That conference felt that a great deal could be accomplished if, by a publicity campaign, every effort were made to bring home to the average individual as well as to potential employers of all kinds the desirability of doing in the winter months all the work that could be done during those months, taking into account climatic factors, often with advantage as compared with other seasons of the year.
No one can isolate the results which flow from any particular effort of this kind. No one can say that because we spent $10,000 in publicity, certain jobs are created. It would take an army of mathematicians to gather information and then collate it before a result of that kind could be achieved. But it certainly is the view of the Department of Labour that this expenditure has fully justified itself and fully vindicated the recommendations of the national conference which was held last year.


While we are dealing with this subject I might mention one aspect of the campaign which gave a great deal of pleasure to certain people who live on the west side of Toronto. At the approaches to Royal York road there was one of those brilliant billboards in fluorescent red and blue saying "Do it Now." And on an accompanying billboard there was portrayed a very lithesome creature dressed in a glamorous satin gown and leaning back in a reclining posture. The impact of these two posters together delighted a great many people in that district, and

Supply-Labour
gave one the impression that whoever was responsible for this particular piece of advertising was showing initiative.


Last night, discussing this item, I had occasion to mention that earlier this session a complaint had been registered against the manner in which some of the unemployed in certain sections of this country, notably in a particular constituency in Manitoba, were given the opportunity to take advantage of the government's limited winter work program. The particular item now before the committee, while it is not concerned with the winter work program in a formal sense is, as the minister has indicated, connected with it as being supplementary to that work. Since this matter was raised we have had no satisfactory explanation of the stories which have circulated with regard to the manner in which these jobs have been handed out in some cases. I have here a copy of the Winnipeg Free Press of January 12, 1959. The heading is "I Hand Out the Jobs, says Minnedosa Tory" and the article says, in part:
Walter Weir, a prominent Minnedosa Progressive Conservative, says Nicholas Mandziuk, Conservative M.P. for Marquette riding, has given him the authority to hand out winter work jobs in Riding Mountain national park.
Mr. Weir, Minnedosa florist and undertaker and Conservative campaign manager in the Minnedosa riding for the last provincial election, heads a constituency-wide organization which has processed at least 80 of the 125 men now working on winter projects in the park.
Only a handful of the workers have been referred to the park by the Brandon employment office. Work projects in the park this winter are valued at $400,000.
If that story is true it certainly deserves some comment from the Minister of Labour or from the Minister of Finance who is now speaking on behalf of all government departments in presenting these estimates. For instance, here we have a story in the Toronto Star of February 19-


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman; the hon. gentleman is dealing with matters which, if they have any accuracy at all-and I am not making any comment on that at the moment-relate, I take it, to jobs provided by the government. This present item has nothing to do with jobs provided by the government. It is an item designed to provide sums for publicity to ask persons outside the government entirely to provide employment during the winter season. This has nothing to do with the government's employees at all, Mr. Chairman. The hon. gentleman will have his opportunity at the proper time to raise his question. He will have his opportunity when the estimates of the Department of Labour are before the

committee of supply, but his point has no relevance at all to the present item.


The minister may make his argument on procedure, as he did last night, and I am prepared to make mine. I take strong issue with this attempt on the part of the Minister of Finance to abridge the discussion of items which have relevance to this particular matter.


The chairman will rule whether or not.


The item before the committee is a request for moneys to assist in the promotion of schemes designed to give work to men and women in this country, and I am now dealing with an allegation that some of the jobs made available as a result of a number of efforts, in-including this particular promotional scheme-


Not this scheme.


I say that abuse and discrimination which are not in the national interest have resulted. That is the gist of this complaint, and the hon. gentleman does not further the passage of this estimate by taking this narrow procedural position.


Can we have a ruling on the point of order, Mr. Chairman?


We are not discussing or debating employment by the government itself, or the giving of government jobs. We are discussing, as mentioned in the item, the expenses of the special services branch, including expenses for the promotion of a program for combating seasonal unemployment. This has nothing to do with the normal employment practices of the government, and consequently I suggest to the hon. member for Essex East that he delay his remarks until the estimates of the Department of Labour come before the committee, at which time the raising of the matters to which he has referred would be in order,


I have great confidence in your chairmanship of this committee, and I am not going to press the matter further. I take this position without in any way binding myself with regard to future action, for I find it difficult to accept this ruling.
In commenting upon your ruling I simply express regret at this time that the Minister of Finance takes the position that this is not a matter to which a reply should be given at once. Undoubtedly the reason is that the minister has not available the necessary information to make the kind of reply that should be made, information that would be

available to him it he would meet the demands of the opposition and have the responsible ministers in their places replying to questions instead of the Minister of Finance undertaking to reply on behalf of every department of the government of our country.


Mr. Chairman, the hon. member for Trinity asked a few moments ago about the placing of newspaper advertisements in newspapers published in languages other than English and French. I am informed that the advertising has been published in English and French newspapers and magazines.


Mr. Chairman, I am sure the minister will recall that some time ago, over the objections of this side of the chamber, a starred question was made an order for return. That starred question asked among other things what was the total number of contracts given to the McKim advertising agency. I wonder if in view of the very large amount of business given it by this department the minister could tell us how much this company is receiving from other departments?


Mr. Chairman, I have not that information. If it is a starred question I presume it will be asked in due course.


It has been asked and made an order for return.


Then it will be brought down in due course in accordance with the order of the house. I do not have that information here.


Does the minister not think this is precisely the kind of information which surely should not have taken more than an hour of the time of his staff to assemble, and that should have been given to the committee before we were asked to vote this large sum of money to be spent by the McKim advertising agency?


Item agreed to.
Vocational training co-ordination-
751.	To provide for carrying out the purposes of the Vocational Training Co-ordination Act and agreements made thereunder; to authorize the Minister of Labour to enter into agreements with any province on terms approved by the governor in council to provide financial assistance to vocational schools, and training under youth training projects and to provide for the expenditures thereunder and under vocational training agreements entered into in previous years-payments to the provinces-further amount required, $854,856.
Mr. Chairman, last evening in reply to a question I asked the Minister of
Supply-Labour
Finance, as reported at page 2064 of Hansard the hon. gentleman stated:
The fact is that Quebec does receive its full share.
I raised this question when we were discussing item No. 751. I would like to know if the minister is now in a position to tell us the exact amount received by the province of Quebec with respect to this item?


Mr. Chairman, I have further information to give my hon. friend and the committee on this subject. As the statement on page 2064 of Hansard indicates, Quebec does receive its full share. These agreements under the Vocational Training Co-Ordination Act are of course available to all provinces.
Following last night's discussion I checked up particularly in regard to Quebec's participation in the plan. I find that Quebec entered into a ten-year agreement originally in 1945 which provided for both capital and operational expenditures. Quebec participated fully in that agreement and in the two-year extension in 1955-56 and 1956-57 which followed. A new five-year agreement called the vocational and technical training agreement No. 2 was entered into, in the fiscal year 1957-58, with all the other provinces, but 1 am told that Quebec did not sign this agreement. Therefore there are no expenditures for Quebec contemplated under the item unless the Quebec government should decide to come in now and sign the agreement. Quebec did have a small expenditure in the fiscal year 1957-58 under the training of persons to fit them for the armed forces, but there will be no expenditure in 1958-59 for Quebec as far as can presently be determined.


What is the actual amount that was received by Quebec in 1957-58?


In the fiscal year 1957-58 it was $2,849, Mr. Chairman, for the training of persons to fit them for the armed forces.


It was not youth training.


No, the training of persons to fit them for the armed forces.


Mr. Chairman, can the minister tell us how he reconciles the statement he made yesterday to the effect that Quebec does receive its full share? Are we to conclude from this that last evening the minister was speaking through his hat?


No, Mr. Chairman, I was not wearing any hat last night. When I spoke last evening I was not aware of the fact that Quebec had not extended the agreement within the past year. As I have indicated, the payments to Quebec ran up to

Supply-Labour
a year ago, the end crl the fiscal year 1957-58. Unless the Quebec government should suddenly come in between now and the end of the present fiscal year it is indicated that there will be no payments accruing to Quebec during the present fiscal year. I do emphasize, however, that the terms of this act and the agreements for which it provides are open to the province of Quebec as they are to all other provinces. I stressed last night that all the provinces are on an equal footing in this respect.


In other words, when the minister said Quebec was receiving its full share, he meant after all zero, or that it was receiving nothing. It received nothing this year or in the previous year. In 1957-58 I believe the province received not one cent. I base this statement on an answer given by the Minister of Labour to the hon. member for Papineau on March 3. On that occasion the hon. gentleman inquired about the amounts paid to Quebec each year since 1942 to date under the provisions of the Vocational Training Co-Ordination Act. In reply the Minister of Labour said that nothing was received in the fiscal year 1957-58 for youth training, vocational training school assistance, apprenticeship training or for unemployed workers. Of course we have no unemployed workers in the province of Quebec, and we do not need any money from Ottawa.


That information is correct, Mr. Chairman, but may I point out that there are various headings under the schedule. This payment to the province of Quebec in the fiscal year 1957-58 came under a later item, the training of persons to fit them for the armed forces. The amount was $2,849.


But we are discussing item No. 751 referring to vocational training coordination.


It comes under that.


The question addressed to the Minister of Labour was under the same item, and his answer was that nothing was received by Quebec. On the other hand the Minister of Finance says there was a payment of a few thousand dollars out of a possible $8 million total. I think these hon. gentlemen should compare their figures before it is too late.
This is the third set of supplementary estimates we have had. I believe the present government is using supplementary estimates rather too freely with respect to somewhat

large sums of money. I was reading Beau-chesne's fourth edition yesterday with respect to supplementary estimates, and this is what I find in citation No. 240:
Supplementary estimates, when treated as customary and as a matter of course, instead of being restricted to occasion of unforeseen contingencies, do more to destroy effectual parliamentary control than any other indirect method that could be devised.
And later:
The introduction of supplementary estimates of any considerable amount is really a breach of contract between the government and parliament, for when this is done the budget statement is destroyed, and in effect a supplementary budget is set up.
These are the words of a gentleman who is supposed to know something about these matters. The sum of $1 million out of a total of $8 million represents more than one-tenth of the whole amount. Those who are looking for suggestions from this side of the house say that we never give any suggestions. Next year the Minister of Finance should see that these supplementary estimates are reduced to the minimum so that the government, the house and the country will know exactly the amount of money that we are called upon to vote. That might change the picture altogether. If a few items in the supplementary estimates for every department were calculated in the millions of dollars, instead of having a deficit of $700 million we might go over $1 billion. This is one suggestion I humbly submit to the Minister of Finance.


I humbly receive
the suggestion of the hon. member in the same spirit.


Thank you. I would like a
vote on this item.


Call the yeas and nays.


Before it goes to a vote I wish to ask the minister whether he can tell us from his intimate knowledge of provincial-federal relations that the reason Quebec is not taking advantage of this particular vote is its stand on autonomy and its general attitude toward those questions.


I have no specific communication as to the reasons the Quebec government has not seen fit to enter into the new five-year agreement.


Shall the item carry?
(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, I would like the yeas and nays to be recorded before this item is passed.
(Text):
I would like a vote called.


Question.


All those in favour of
the item will please stand.
Item agreed to: Yeas, 91; nays,