Mr. C. A. Cathers (York North) presented the fifth report of the standing committee on banking and commerce and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is in a position to give the house the intention of the government with regard to the resumption of the discussion of capital punishment.


The hon. gentleman sent me no notice of this question, so I speak entirely on the basis of my recollection of the situation. I believe when the matter was last before the house on a private member's motion we found ourselves in the position where, at the request of the Leader of the Opposition, it was provided that an extra day would be made available in the event that there were still some hon. members who had a desire to speak but who, were the debate to be concluded on that day, would be denied an opportunity of expressing themselves on so important a matter.
What I will do is look over the record and ascertain the position of affairs and the nature of the discussion at that time, and be in a position on Monday to report in general as to the course the government has in mind.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if I could ask the Minister of Finance whether his attention has been directed to an editorial in the Globe and
Mail this morning which makes a bitter attack on the whole principle of equalization in federal-provincial financial relations, and whether this is a forecast of the attitude which the government will take in July.


Perhaps I can conclusively and comprehensively answer the hon. gentleman's question, and perhaps set at rest his blossoming fears, if I say I have not seen the editorial in question. I have not had time yet today to read editorials. I presume the editorial is the responsibility of the editor of the newspaper. When government policy is declared it is the practice of the government to declare it in the house when parliament is in session.


Can the minister reassure the house that the government has no intention of abandoning the principle of equalization?


I can direct the hon. member to the statements that have been made in the house, I believe both by the Prime Minister and myself, I think the most recent one being during the debate of a few weeks ago on the amendment to the Federal-Provincial Tax-Sharing Arrangements Act, when I pointed out that in that measure the present government had carried the principle of equalization further than it had ever been carried before for the benefit of those provinces which were not in as strong a fiscal position as others.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Skeena asked me a question with regard to an attack on the matron of the prison for women at Kingston. At approximately two o'clock in the morning on March 29, 1960, one of the matrons on duty at the prison for women, Kingston, was assaulted by a female inmate while carrying out her normal patrol through a dormitory occupied by some of the inmates. She was struck on the head with a soft drink bottle and received several jabs in the arm with a cooking fork. She was taken to the Kingston General hospital where the

Inquiries of the Ministry wounds she had sustained were stitched up and returned to her duties on April 19.
Investigation has not disclosed any reason for this sudden attack, although the inmate was questioned at length by the warden and the psychiatrists who are in attendance at the prison for women. The inmate was placed in disassociation as a disciplinary measure and will forfeit all earned remission. She has subsequently been released from disassociation and is now serving her sentence in a normal manner.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Acting Secretary of State. I should be grateful if the minister would advise the house whether he has received an application from the Boy Scouts Association to change the name of the Canadian general council of the Boy Scouts Association to the Boy Scouts of Canada. If so, what action has been taken?


Mr. Speaker, notice of this question was just brought to my attention as I was coming into the house. I will make the proper inquiry and have an answer on Monday.


On the orders of the day:
On June 8 the hon. member for Essex East asked me whether it is a fact that the Bank of Canada is now selling long term bonds held in the portfolio of the unemployment insurance fund and buying treasury bills with the proceeds.
Yesterday he repeated the question, and added this gloss upon it in remarks which he smuggled in with his question. As reported at page 4710 of Hansard he said:
-because if the Bank of Canada is selling long term bonds this is an indication that the Bank of Canada is greatly concerned about unemployment in the future.
The hon. gentleman is just about as wrong as usual, Mr. Speaker. The fact is that the unemployment insurance fund has not been buying treasury bills. As a matter of fact, it has not held any treasury bills now for the past several months. Any transactions in its security portfolio are simply routine ones that have been carried out in accordance with
plans made for some time. These are available as of the end of each month if hon. members ask for that information. It has never been the policy to give this information on a day to day or week to week basis but as of the month end.
I think all hon. members of the house will be pleased to know that the borrowings from the Minister of Finance on behalf of the unemployment insurance fund have recently been reduced. As of May 31 the total of loans outstanding from the Minister of Finance was $37 million. As of yesterday they had been reduced to $25 million.


If I may, I should like to ask the minister a supplementary question. Can the minister tell the house what the official rate of duty is on remarks included with questions?


Oh, oh.


Perhaps the hon. member had better ask the Minister of National Revenue.


I shall be pleased to do that.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. McGee in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORT Marine Services-
410. Aids to navigation-Administration, operation and maintenance including fees for membership in the international organizations listed in the details of the estimates, $6,015,938.


This item will be found at page 73 of the blue book, the details at page 518.


Under this item, Mr. Chairman, I think we can discuss a subject which has been before the House of Commons on previous occasions and which has interested members of parliament for some years, particularly the members from the province of Quebec. It has to do with keeping navigation open on the St. Lawrence river during the winter months.
As hon. members well know, there have been many technical difficulties in keeping the river open because of the extremely rigorous winters we have had. That is one reason this project has been postponed for some time. I think it is understood that all hon. members from the province of Quebec are extremely-


Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was saying that all hon. members representing the province of Quebec are extremely interested in this subject and anxious to have the St. Lawrence river open during the winter months. However, it has been known- and it is a fact, of course-that the St. Lawrence river and navigation on that river are definitely a federal government responsibility under the constitution.
Recently statements have been made in the province of Quebec by the premier of that province to the effect that the provincial government would build an icebreaker and that the provincial government of Quebec would keep the St. Lawrence river open for winter navigation. The question I would like to ask the minister-


-who is not here-


-and it is an extremely important question, is whether the government of the province of Quebec consulted with the federal government before making the statement, indeed the promise, that they would keep the St. Lawrence river open for winter navigation.
As hon. members will recall, on many occasions the province of Quebec has been very definite about the wording of the constitution and its application, and of course that works both ways. What comes under federal responsibility must be left to federal responsibility, and what comes under provincial responsibility must also be left to provincial responsibility. If it were not we would have chaos. I think the minister could certainly help a great deal by informing the committee, first of all, whether there has been any consultation between the province of Quebec and the federal government concerning permission being given to the province to keep the St. Lawrence seaway open during the winter months.
Mr. Chairman, may I ask the minister to answer these two questions; first, whether there has been any consultation between the province of Quebec and the federal government concerning the proposition made by the premier of Quebec about keeping the St. Lawrence river open during the winter months. Second, would the minister care to comment on the constitutional aspect of a project whereby a province, in this case the province of Quebec, would keep the St. Lawrence open for winter navigation?


First of all, Mr. Chairman, I would like to correct something the hon. member said a moment ago. He said I was not present in the chamber. Well, I think it is obvious-
Supply-Transport


Mr. Chairman, I interjected that observation because I looked and could not see the minister in his seat. However, he was with the chairman, and I apologize for saying that; the minister certainly was in the chamber.


I heard that the remark had been made. Mr. Barrette, the premier of Quebec, and I have discussed on a number of occasions the question of winter navigation on the St. Lawrence in Quebec, and I know of his great interest in it. I did not have a specific discussion with him immediately prior to the announcement he made regarding winter navigation.
In answer to the second question, about whether it is constitutional for a province to go into winter navigation, I am advised that it is perfectly constitutional to do so.


I wonder if I might ask the hon. member a question. Does the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres consider it constitutional for the federal government to keep the St. Lawrence open during the winter months? Does he consider it an obligation on the federal government?


As to the first question, I understand that all navigable waters come under the jurisdiction of the federal government, and if the government should decide that it can keep the water open during winter it would certainly be constitutional to do so. As to whether it is an obligation, I would say it certainly is not an obligation.


Does the hon. member consider a river frozen over with two or three feet of ice during the wintertime to be a navigable river during that time?


If the ice could be broken and ships could be made to pass I would say it was navigable; and if it was in the interests of a province that this should be done I would say it would be not only constitutional but desirable.


Do you mean naturally broken by the elements, or by icebreakers?


By icebreakers.


I do not think that would be approved in certain parts of Canada.


May I ask the hon. gentleman whether he considers it desirable for the federal government to have icebreakers for this purpose?


I do not think the federal government should have icebreakers to keep the St. Lawrence open all winter, especially when we have two winter ports in the maritime provinces, Saint John and Halifax.

Supply-Transport


I should like to ask the minister a question or two, because he seems to be keenly interested in this matter and I know he has a very good reason for being interested. Is he in agreement with the policy of the Minister of Transport of keeping the ports open along the north shore of the St. Lawrence for winter navigation right up to the city of Quebec?


My understanding is that it is only local trade in Baie Comeau and Seven Islands. It has nothing to do with the transocean business of the winter ports.


But the minister stated on one occasion that he was willing to keep navigation open in wintertime right up to and including the port of Quebec. Does the Minister of Veterans Affairs agree with that?


You won't get me on that one.


What was that?


I understand the minister never said any such thing.


Mr. Chairman-


Order.


On a question of privilege, it has been stated that the minister did not make that statement. I have put that statement on the record. I have not got it with me at the moment, but not only has the Minister of Transport stated it but the parliamentary secretary to the Minister of Public Works has stated it, and it is on record in Hansard. Does the minister now deny that statement?


I am not speaking for either.


It is clear the hon. gentleman is disagreeing with his colleague.
(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, I would like to clear up a point with the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres (Mr. Cardin). Would he tell me whether, in his view, the fact a river, such as the St. Lawrence river, is navigable is sufficient reason to bar the provincial government from the jurisdiction required to establish winter navigation on it?


Mr. Chairman, according to the constitution, all navigable rivers come under federal jurisdiction. In my opinion, this is the only point that should be considered in this case. Under the constitution itself, all navigable rivers are under federal jurisdiction.
(Text):
If I may, I should like to repeat the ques-fion I asked a while ago as to whether the minister said that the provincial governments can constitutionally maintain the St. Lawrence open during the winter months.


As I understood it, the question was whether it was constitutional for the province to do icebreaking on the St. Lawrence river. My advice is that it is; that there would be no objection to it if they wished to do it.


I should now like to put on the record what I had reference to a moment ago so there will not be any doubt about my statement and so there will not be any doubt about the discussion which has taken place between the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres, the Minister of Veterans Affairs and myself. On January 22, 1958 the Minister of Transport, speaking before the Dominion Marine Association and the lake carriers association at the Seigniory club, Montebello, Quebec, had this to say:
With this group of ships available it should be possible within the next few years to meet virtually all requirements in the St. Lawrence and gulf areas, including such winter shipping as may wish to proceed to the various ports in the lower St. Lawrence, even as far up as Quebec, and in the gulf and Atlantic areas generally.
The parliamentary secretary to the Minister of Public Works, speaking at the Ritz Carlton hotel on September 24, 1959, in a speech which he delivered in French, referred to the statement made by the Minister of Transport before the Dominion Marine Association and quoted it, leaving out one small part. I will read what the parliamentary secretary said at that time. It goes as follows:
With this group of ships available, it should be possible, within the next few years, to meet virtually all requirements on the St. Lawrence and gulf areas, including such winter shipping as may wish to proceed to the various ports in the lower St. Lawrence, even as far up as Quebec.
This is clear enough, surely, and needs no comment.
Well, now, judging by the statement made by the Minister of Veterans Affairs, it would appear to me that there is a clear difference of opinion between himself and the Minister of Transport. If that is the case I think he should clear it up at once and tell us why the division does exist.


Certainly there is a difference of opinion between you and me; I would say that.
(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, I should like to express disagreement with two statements made just now. Before taking exception to the assertions made by the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres, I want to make sure what he meant by his first statement. I want to know whether he was prepared to declare to the house that the province of Quebec is acting altogether unconstitutionally in enacting legislation to promote winter navigation on the St. Lawrence river

up to Quebec city. If I have misinterpreted the hon. member's statement, I am sure he will want to dispel the false impression he has probably created. I understood him to say that navigable rivers come under federal jurisdiction.
The member should realize that the constitution limits the federal government's authority to navigation, and that is something different.
The provincial government certainly has jurisdiction, at least up to a certain point over navigable rivers, and the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres must know that the constitution is to be interpreted in this way.
I should also add that, I have a feeling that this intervention, arose out of a statement said to have been made two days ago in the city of Quebec by the premier of the province of Quebec to the effect that members of the Liberal opposition are not yet aware that we are here, in this federal parliament, to deal with federal matters. It is high time the Liberals stopped proving, here in this house, that statements by the Quebec premier are outlandish or are just so many senseless promises. It is also high time that our Liberal friends stopped playing politics in this house for the benefit of Mr. Lesage, their branch manager in Quebec.
Mr. Chairman, I am sorry I cannot see eye to eye with the Minister of Veterans' Affairs on the matter of winter navigation. Quite candidly, I am sorry I cannot agree with him in the matter, but I cannot let his statement go on record without rising in protest.
(Text):


Mr. Chairman, having regard to the hon. member who has just spoken and having regard to the statement made by the Minister of Veterans Affairs, which discloses a shocking breach of cabinet solidarity on a very important matter, may I ask the minister directly concerned whether he has any comment to make on this, in the light of the statement which he had previously made, which has been put on the record again this morning and contradicted by his colleague?


If the Leader of the Opposition had been in the house when I was dealing with these estimates about a week ago he would have heard the very clear discussion that went on. My position and the position of the government were made very clear indeed. I do not think it is necessary to do so again. He can look back in Hansard. It is
Supply-Transport
all there to be read and understood, and I think he can understand it very clearly.


I read in Hansard what the minister said last week, but I am asking him now, in the light of what has been said this morning by his colleague, whether he has anything to add to what he said.


No, Mr. Chairman.


I think it is rather unfair for the Minister of Transport to be chippy in this way about his position on the St. Lawrence seaway. I think he was quite clear last week; I think he told us he was not going to encourage any development which would have a bad effect on any part of the country. Now, I think that is one principle we can all understand; certainly socialists can understand it. The only doubt that rises in one's mind in this regard is something that I should like to put to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. He has been a long time in this house and a long time member of the Conservative party, and is aware of its principles and the things it stands for.
It seems to me that one of the principles that may be in conflict in this situation that we tend to agree with, as enunciated last week, is the principle of business efficiency and national interest, getting things moved at the lowest possible cost to the shipper and to the receiver. This, it seems to me, is the question that we could perhaps ask the minister from New Brunswick and also the minister in charge, as to whether they think it is even worth while to determine the relative saving that may be possible through winter shipping out of Montreal and Quebec and strike some kind of economic balance. It seems to me that such a move and such an analysis would be more in keeping with the free enterprise principles of the party than this rather socialistic principle that was advanced last week by the Minister of Transport.
It is from that academic point of view that I should like to have an opinion from the minister from New Brunswick, and I should also like to have some assurance from the Minister of Transport about this conflict, which I think he knows exists within his own party among his own party members. I think it is always nice to have a conflict going on within a party. We know there is a conflict within the government party. There probably is one within the Liberal party on this matter, or between the Liberals in Quebec and the Liberals in New Brunswick and Halifax.
What is the suggestion? What is the way out of this contretemps? Quebec wants winter

Supply-Transport
navigation. The minister says it should go so far and then no more, because it is going to be a great disadvantage to Halifax and Saint John. How do you resolve this kind of contretemps? It seems to me that one of the first things we need to do is to find out just how much potential shipping there is for winter carriage to Quebec that would be taken away from Halifax and Saint John. We need to find out whether it is worth while in terms of cost to move this shipping in that way. I should like to know very much from either of the ministers what their views would be on this kind of program.


I should like to make it very clear that there is no controversy between the Minister of Transport and myself. I agree entirely with the statement which was made last week by the Minister of Transport. As far as the hon. member's academic question is concerned, I am not a theorist at all. I know it is of great practical benefit to the maritime provinces to have our winter ports in operation as they have been since the days of confederation. We are very jealous indeed with respect to anything which might interfere with what we consider to be and to have been our rights ever since the days of confederation. That is the only comment I have to make.
(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, I should like to add a few words to what has just been said by the hon. member for Chambly-Rouville (Mr. Johnson) to the effect that we, in this house, are given to deal with matters which are a provincial responsibility. May I tell him that if any of us used provincial politics to get elected, they are the Conservative members in this house.
Mr. Chairman, I find it strange that members who got elected in the province of Quebec on the claim that they would recover Quebec rights do not stand up now to repeat in this house what they said on the hustings in the election campaigns of 1957 and 1958, about winter navigation, a matter of special concern to the Quebec area.
It has now been shown that winter navigation to the port of Quebec is possible, because 22 ocean-going ships did get there.
I am now wondering why the minister has changed his mind on this matter? As a matter of fact, in conjunction with the hon. member for Laurier (Mr. Chevrier), in this year's debate on the speech from the throne, I quoted parts of a speech in which the Minister of Transport (Mr. Hees) said the government would do everything in its power to

insure winter navigation, not only to north shore harbours, such as Baie Comeau and Sept-Iles, but also to Quebec.
The hon. member for Quebec East (Mr. Tasse) was a great promoter of that idea in the Quebec area when he was in charge of the metropolitan office, as evidenced by the many excerpts I have quoted from the talk he delivered in Montreal in 1959. Why does he not rise today in defence of the interests of Quebec city? Why do the ministers from the province of Quebec remain silent, particularly when they see their colleagues from the maritimes quite rightly looking after the interests of their area, why do they not rise in defence of the interests of Quebec?


Mr. Chairman, I rise on a point of privilege.


When you hear the premier of Quebec, Mr. Barrette, say he will build not just one, but two icebreakers-
(Text):
The Depuly Chairman: Order. What is the hon. member rising on?


A question of privilege.


What is the privilege?


You will find out in a minute.


You will find out there is no question of privilege.
(Translation):


The hon. member for Levis (Mr. Bourget) stated that no Quebec Conservative member had protested against the intervention of the Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Brooks). Well, Mr. Chairman, I must say I did intervene to object to the opinion expressed on that matter.
(Text):


Order. That is not a matter of privilege but a matter of opinion.
(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, I am not an expert in constitutional law, but I have been sitting in this house for twenty years already -of course there are others too, who have been sitting here longer than I have and I cannot recall the federal government having left to the provinces the responsibility of looking after navigation on a navigable river such as the St. Lawrence.
Besides, as I said a moment ago, before the election, winter navigation up to Quebec had been promised and now, in order not to do any harm to some other part of the country, it is said that icebreakers cannot be built.


That new attitude on the part of government members is rather strange; it was not the one they took before the election.
I hope the Conservative members from the province of Quebec will rise in their places here, or that the ministers will speak up in the cabinet, in defence of Quebec rights.
I am not opposed to the interests of other provinces. Besides, as the hon. member for Laurier (Mr. Chevrier) said, in reply to the question put to him by the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin), we want every part of Canada to benefit from federal government grants to each province. That is our view.
It is not a matter of being unfair to anyone, but to help the various areas that need help. As I see it, you cannot stand in the way of progress, and I ask the hon. member for Quebec East to keep that in mind.
Did we oppose the dredging of the St. Lawrence to stop ships with deeper draught to sail to Montreal? We did not-no more than we opposed building the St. Lawrence seaway. In my view it is a matter of logic. It would be illogical to object to further technical developments being of benefit to Quebec city, and perhaps later even to Three Rivers and even to Montreal.
That is, Mr. Chairman, the situation which I wanted to point out, and I hope that the minister will reverse his decision and not let the provincial government build one or two icebreakers that would cost about $12 to $15 million each and cause us to lose the $25 million we recovered through university grants.
Once more, I ask the minister to reconsider the matter more particularly as it would be of assistance to the shipyards in Lauzon, Sorel, Montreal or elsewhere.
I ask him to consider the question in the light of facts, in the light of what happens during the winter. I am sure that the people in the district concerned would appreciate it.
(Text):
Mr. Chairman, if I may answer the hon. member who has just spoken, he has referred to what went on last winter in the port of Quebec. As he will know very well if he has followed the figures with respect to shipping in and out of that port, there was a very large and important increase in shipping at the port of Quebec last winter.
Supply-Transport
A great many more ships reinforced against ice are being built especially for this trade, and that is having quite a marked effect. My department came to the aid of any ships that requested aid during the winter if they were held up in the ice.
I think the department followed the proper course during the past winter. As I say, the port of Quebec benefited very materially by a marked increase in winter shipping, as the hon. member will know if he has examined the figures. I see a very promising future for the port of Quebec, which is what we would like to see for that port and all other ports in Canada. If the hon. member really thinks the matter over I believe he will agree that what the federal government is doing in this regard is to follow a sensible policy having in mind its obligations to all parts of Canada and all ports in various provinces of Canada.


Mr. Chairman, it is a little difficult to discuss what the policy of the Canadian government is in this matter because of the division between two members of the cabinet which has been made so clear this morning. The Minister of Transport has put on the record that it is the policy of the government to keep the river open in winter as far as the port of Quebec. Then there was the statement this morning by the Minister of Veterans Affairs that that is not his policy. When we brought this contradiction to the attention of the two ministers, the Minister of Veterans Affairs got up a second time and said there was no contradiction between them. Now the Minister of Transport tells us about the policy of the Canadian government. It is the policy, perhaps, of one minister but apparently not the policy of the other minister; so our confusion in this matter, Mr. Chairman, is understandable.


I should like to say that there is no difference of opinion at all between myself and the Minister of Veterans Affairs, who takes a serious view of the affairs of his province and the welfare of the maritime provinces generally. He and I are in agreement, and I think if the Leader of the Opposition will read what I said when my estimates were up a week ago and read what the Minister of Veterans Affairs said, he will see very little, if any, difference. I do not think there is any difference.
I should like to ask the Leader of the Opposition, since he seems to have taken an interest in this matter, and since it is obvious that a concerted effort to keep open the St. Lawrence river for winter navigation at great cost to the federal government would undoubtedly take trade from the maritime ports

Supply-Transport
-because after all there is just so much trade coming into Canada by water during the winter months and if it goes into the port of Quebec it will be taken away from the ports of Halifax and Saint John-is his party in favour of taking business from two ports in Canada in order to favour one?


Mr. Chairman, the minister has asked me a question. I would remind the minister that his estimates are being considered and it is the policy of his government in this matter which is being considered.


Answer.


When the government or any minister gets into difficulty, as he is now, it seems the only recourse is to say, what would you do? The minister has just indicated that there is only so much trade to go around and we must be very careful to divide that equitably among the various ports. I would tell the minister that if there was a Liberal government in power there would be enough trade to go around and keep the St. Lawrence river open in winter, without interfering in any way, shape or form with the maritime ports.


Why didn't you do it?


We did that. During the years we were in power trade increased; year by year port business increased, and now the minister says there is just so much trade to go around. The minister says there is no difference between him and his colleague the Minister of Veterans Affairs. I ask him to read the record of what has gone on this morning and then say there is no difference. The minister says we will keep the St. Lawrence open in winter down to Quebec, while the Minister of Veterans Affairs quarrels with the use of icebreakers for that purpose and asks whether we have any constitutional right in this country to use icebreakers to keep the river open to Quebec.


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman; I ask the Leader of the Opposition, did the Minister of Veterans Affairs say that? Did the Minister of Veterans Affairs say-


Order. I cannot hear a point of order. At the moment I just hear a question.


We could very well consider moving the parliament buildings closer to the St. Lawrence, and perhaps the heat that is generated might enable us to keep the St. Lawrence open. You know, Mr. Chairman, eventually I believe we will have to get to the point in this house where the Liberal party will have to refrain from telling the house how good things were under their

regime, and the Conservative are going to have to stop slamming the Liberals for the things that were not done when the Liberals were in office. We will have to deal with the various items on their merits rather than have this petty bickering that goes on back and forth between the parties as to which one is most beneficial for Canada.
Apart from that, I should like to mention a matter that is of concern to the west coast, where we do not have the St. Lawrence seaway. It is a matter of local and personal concern, and is a matter of which the minister is aware. I have a copy of a letter dated December 18, 1959 to the Minister of Transport from the Prince Rupert fishermen's co-operative association. This letter contains a resolution that was passed at the annual meeting of the association last year. It makes reference to the establishment of range lights in place of spar buoys in Metla-katla pass. This was forwarded to the minister, and subsequently discussions were entered into among the Prince Rupert cooperative, the minister and myself.
The minister replied to the Prince Rupert fishermen's co-operative under date of January 26, 1960. The letter is addressed to Mr. Harding, secretary of the board of directors, and I should like to read a part of that letter:
We have investigated the possibility of installing range lights to assist passage through Metlakatla pass as requested at the annual general meeting of your association. It is proposed to install a set of range lights on the east side of Venn passage and another set on Dundas point. In addition, we will install two additional lights on dolphins off Venn pass in Shkgeaum bay.
Then he goes on to indicate that a vessel entering from seaward would pick up certain lights, and so on. He says it is expected that when these new aids are installed, night navigation through the pass will be facilitated. The interesting part of this letter is that there is a footnote at the bottom which says, "carbon copy to A. D. Vance, Esq." and a carbon copy to myself. Frankly, I do not care whether the minister mimeographs his letters and sends them to people all over the country; that is entirely his business. However, I would point out that A. D. Vance was the Conservative candidate in the electoral district of Skeena in 1958. I just wonder whether this indicates a policy of this government of maintaining a liaison with every constituency in the country through members of the Conservative party, and especially through candidates of that party who were defeated.
I would point out that I communicated with the Prince Rupert fishermen's co-operative with a view to ascertaining whether Mr. Vance had some association with the Prince

Rupert fishermen's co-operative which would occasion this letter being sent to him. I was advised by the co-operative that Mr. Vance had no connection whatever with the Prince Rupert fishermen's co-operative, neither with respect to the range light question nor in any other way, for that matter.
Prior to the date of that letter the minister wrote to Mr. Harding of the Prince Rupert fishermen's co-operative regarding another matter. It was about the question of tenders for an airport at Digby island, indicating that they would be called and so on. I understand they have been called and that tenders have been received within the last week or two for the terminal building there.
On February 5 the minister wrote again to the Prince Rupert fishermen's co-operative association and he dealt then with the establishment of a light on the south end of Williams island, another navigational aid, indicating that the request has now been investigated and that it seems that a light would be most useful to vessels using Lewis passage and that it is proposed to establish that light at the first opportunity this summer. Then on February 24 the minister wrote to me with regard to other things and stated:
-and I am indeed sorry that I neglected to send you copies of my letters to the Prince Rupert fishermen's co-operative association, with regard to Williams island and Digby island.
At the time I sent copies to Mr. A. D. Vance, defeated candidate at Prince Rupert, but overlooked keeping you posted.
Of course it was most kind of the minister to write me this letter, and I appreciate his eventually getting around to keeping people informed as to what has occurred. As I said, I do not care whether the minister has these letters mimeographed or printed and sends them wherever he wants to send them. That, of course, is his business. I have no complaint about keeping Mr. Vance or anybody else informed about what activities are transpiring either there or anywhere else. But it seems to me that this is a practice which is not isolated or confined to the Department of Transport because last year, Mr. Chairman, you will recall that we had another instance.
While this is another subject matter, still and all it is the same individual, the defeated Conservative candidate, who is involved with respect to the building of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police barracks on the Queen Charlotte islands. When I attempted to discover from the Minister of Justice whether any communications had been entered into between Mr. Vance and himself and so on, I was unable to get that particular information although, according to information in Prince Rupert that was made available to me-
Supply-Transport


I rise on a point of order. We are really not on the R.C.M.P. estimates. I think the hon. member has made his point.


Yes. When I started I said that while this was another subject matter, the same individual is involved. I merely mentioned that as an aside and to indicate that this practice of maintaining liaison with the defeated Conservative candidates is not concentrated in the Department of Transport but exists or has existed, to my knowledge, in other departments.
I do not want to go any further than that into the matter. The point is, Mr. Chairman, that if this is the manner in which a government is going to maintain its relationships with communities-that is, to maintain them through its own party structure and organization-may I say that I do not think this procedure is conducive to the welfare of those communities or to the welfare or interest of the government, and I believe it is not in keeping with our concept of a democratic government.
As I said, I do not complain one bit about the minister writing to Bill Vance or to anybody else, so far as that goes, about these matters. However, I would not want to see this practice-and I raise the matter only in this way-develop into an arrangement such as that which has existed in the past under other governments, where the entire public service functions, operates and is channeled through a political party organization rather than through the elected responsible members and organizations in the community.


Order. I think the hon. member has made his point with reference to this item, and I do not think he needs to go into the procedure of other departments. Shall vote 410 carry?


I should like to ask the minister a question in relation to the administrative thought that has been given to the possibility of dividing up the agency jurisdiction that I believe now runs from Parry Sound northward to the head of the lakes. I should like to know what would be involved in terms of cost of administration.


This matter of agency boundaries is still under consideration, but no decision has been made as to any change.


I recognize the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres.


I should like something further in the way of information from the minister on that matter. The northwestern Ontario chambers of commerce put forward a representation to the minister a few months ago

Supply-Transport
in this regard. I was wondering on this subject whether there were any other representations of which the minister or the deputy minister knows, and what factors are taken into account.
What I mean is this. I can sympathize with the chambers of commerce. They think we would have better service if we had an agency at the lakehead. What is necessary in order to get an agency at the lakehead? Should the harbour commission make a request? Has the harbour commission made a request? Another question is this. What would be the advantages of having it at the lakehead and what would be the cost to the government of setting up a new agency? Have there been any changes in the traffic pattern out of Parry Sound?


This is basically a matter of operation. Some representations have been made. I believe the hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River made representations as well as some other people. These representations are all being considered. However, no decision has been arrived at yet.


Mr. Chairman, I want to raise a matter that probably has more general application, and I think it is suitable to do it here. I have written letters to several ministers in this government complaining about the inordinate length and detail of their annual reports, and the fact that they have in them far too much information. I do not know what has gone into the gradual pruning down of this report over the years, but the situation has come to the point that in the annual report of the Department of Transport we get very slight information. I think every hon. member, in reading the annual report, likes to correlate it to the estimates, both in their item form and in their detail. On this particular matter here, where we have a vote for administration, I doubt whether we have a total of more than 250 words of information in the annual report. I do not want to go to the extreme of advocating a great deal of detail. However, what consideration has gone into this matter so that we wind up with such a slight source of background information?
I should like the minister to remember that he has one of the biggest and fastest growing departments. It is certainly one of the biggest spenders. Can we not get a bit more information? I should like to find in the report something about these agencies, shifts, changes and that type of thing. Perhaps it would be possible each year to concentrate upon a different part of the minister's department and to give more details. We know what the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources has been doing recently in its annual report. It has been taking a

section of the department activities and blowing them up in detail. I wonder whether we could have the minister's comment.


We used to produce an extremely lengthy and detailed report, and there were many criticisms of that report because it was too detailed and too lengthy. In order to try to meet those criticisms we have now produced a shorter and more concise report. However, the hon. member finds fault with it. We would really appreciate it if at any time the hon. member would come and see my deputy minister or any of our officials and make suggestions, which we would welcome with regard to how the report could be better done. At any time that he or any other hon. member wishes any information on any subject that is handled by my department, as I think he and all other hon. members know very well, they are welcome to come to the department. I will send them to the proper officials and will endeavour to get any detail on any matter that any hon. member of parliament wants to know about dealing with my department.


The hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres.


May I just follow up-


Order. I recognized the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres because I thought he was going to follow the hon. member for Skeena with a question. The Chair recognizes the hon. member for Richelieu-Vercheres.


While listening to the discussions which have been taking place on this very important matter, I was struck by the fact that we are going into a situation which in the past has proven to be very delicate indeed and very controversial. What is happening now is this. According to section 91 of the British North America Act, navigation and shipping is definitely within the federal field. Within the past few days the province of Quebec has announced that it intends, according to speeches we have heard from the premier himself, to enter into the field of icebreaking in the St. Lawrence river, and in so doing it is coming to the help or aid of the federal government. As a matter of fact it is assuming a responsibility which comes definitely within the federal sphere.
This is a situation which is very similar to that of some years ago when the federal government, after being asked by the universities, aided the universities in the province of Quebec; where one level of government was helping out the other level of government. The hon. member for Chambly-Rouville stated that what we were trying to do here was deal with a question of policy.

It appears to me that it we analyse the reversal of policy which the hon. member and other members of that group have followed, that is where you can really see the political interests.
What is happening now is rather extraordinary. The provincial government of Quebec is now helping the federal government to assume its responsibilities in the matter of shipping and navigation on the St. Lawrence river. I am rather anxious to hear some of the hon. members opposite try to explain why so many accusations were made in 1951, and why the government of the province of Quebec now proposes to assume a responsibility which definitely comes within the field of the federal government.


In answer to the hon. member's question I would like to point out to him that this government controls and regulates shipping. We are required to regulate but not to operate shipping. Any private company can operate an icebreaker in our navigable waters, and many private companies do so. May I cite two examples which come to mind; the paper company at Bathurst, New Brunswick, and the Canada Steamship Lines at Midland. Other companies also operate icebreakers. There is no objection to any company operating an icebreaker or to a provincial government operating an icebreaker.
Mr. Chairman, I find it very hard to understand the hon. member's objection to a very progressive and constructive step which has been proposed by the premier of Quebec to assist shipping-


And to assume federal responsibilities.	.


It is not a federal responsibility at all. It is a responsibility which can be assumed by the federal government, a provincial government or a private company, and as I have stated many private companies do this kind of work for themselves. What the hon. member is trying to do, as I see it, is to object to progress being made by the very progressive government in Quebec headed by Premier Barrette, who I believe has made a very progressive suggestion indeed. I find it hard to understand why the hon. member objects to this very progressive suggestion and policy which would assist shipping in his own province.


The minister cannot take objection to any words of mine so far. What I have been trying to bring out is the fact that the government, and particularly those members from the province of Quebec, had a
Supply-Transport
completely different idea of what the constitution meant in 1951, and it is a complete reversal of policy.


Mr. Chairman, all I can say is that if the province of Quebec wishes to operate icebreakers it has a perfect right to do so, and it is a further example of the very progressive attitude adopted by that very progressive government.


If I can follow up the remarks of the hon. members for Richelieu-Vercheres, I would like to ask a question of the minister. If navigation on the St. Lawrence river in Quebec is kept open by icebreakers owned by the Quebec government, can the minister say whether in such case the federal government would maintain the buoys and other facilities relating to navigation, and also say which government would bear responsibility in case of damage?


I would like to point out to the hon. member that we do now maintain buoys for winter coastal shipping. If navigation is to be extended in any area of Canada, why naturally we would be very glad to look into the whole situation and carry out the same progressive policy that we have maintained over the past three years in this and other fields.


I would like to add a word or two to what the hon. member for Port Arthur said about the annual report of the Department of Transport. I know there are agencies under the department, such as the Canadian maritime commission, which make their own annual reports which go into quite some detail, and I am sure that what the minister has said about this is quite true. It has always been the case that any member of parliament who may want to inquire in the most extreme detail into activities within a department may do so, but the circulation of the report of the Department of Transport is confined to members of parliament. Other people may obtain the report from libraries, and it is referred to quite regularly by interested people. It would seem to me that some expansion of detail and explanation of the activities of the department in its annual report would be beneficial.
The minister said, as I understood it, that there were in the past extensive departmental re