the first reading of Bill No. S-4 (from the Senate), to amend the Windsor Harbour Commissioners Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


the first reading of Bill No. S-5 (from the Senate), to incorporate the Oshawa harbour commissioners.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


the first reading of Bill No. S-10 (from the Senate), to incorporate the Nanaimo harbour commissioners.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the order:	Government notices of
motion:
That a joint committee of the Senate and House of Commons be appointed to continue the examination and consideration, begun by a joint committee of the Senate and House of Commons, pursuant to a resolution of the house on April 29, 1959, of the Indian Act, chapter 149, R.S.C. 1952, and amendments thereto, and to suggest such amendments as they may deem advisable, with authority to investigate and report upon Indian administration in general and, in particular, on the social and economic status of the Indians;
That twenty-four members of the House of Commons, to be designated at a later date, act on behalf
of the house as members of the said committee and that standing order 67 (1) of the House of Commons be suspended in relation thereto;
That the records, exhibits and evidence received and taken by the joint committee during the last session of parliament aforesaid be made available to the said joint committee and made part of the records thereof;
That the said committee have power to call for persons, papers and records and examine witnesses under oath; to sit while the house is sitting, and to report from time to time; and to print such papers and evidence from day to day as may be ordered by the committee and that standing order 66 be suspended in relation thereto;
And that a message be sent to the Senate requesting that house to unite with this house for the above purpose, and to select, if the Senate deems advisable, some of its members to act on the proposed joint committee.
Pursuant to section 2 of standing order 21, this government notice of motion stands transferred to and ordered for consideration under government orders at the next sitting of the house.


that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Trans-Canada Highway Act to extend until March 31, 1964, the period during which contributions or payments may be made to the provinces under the act and to prolong until December 31, 1963, the period in respect to which construction costs may be incurred under this act; and to provide also that the aggregate of all expenditures under the act may be increased to a maximum of four hundred million dollars.


Motion agreed to.
that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act to extend its application to the years 1961, 1962 and 1963; and to provide also for certain changes in connection with the administration of the act.


Motion agreed to.
Inquiries of the Ministry AIR TRANSPORT
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the very serious crash landing of a T.C.A. plane at Malton airport last night, and the disturbing report attributed to radar operators that practice attempts in the United States to jam Russian radar screens are fouling up commercial radarscopes at the airport, can the minister say whether such jamming contributed to this crash and whether the Canadian government has objected to the United States that the operation of the Canadian commercial radarscope at Malton airport is being interfered with?


I wish to thank the hon. member for having given me notice of his intention to ask this question. I understand that in this accident the plane went off the end of the runway after touching down, but I am not in any position to comment on the causes of the accident. Both departmental and air line investigators are already at work looking into the situation, and this inquiry will be -carried forward.
With regard to the hon. member's reference to the jamming of Malton radar, it is known that theoretically United States military exercises in radar jamming within the boundaries of the United States might in some circumstances interfere with Canadian air traffic control operations which are located close to the United States boundary, but in fact this has not happened.
This situation is being kept under review, and should anything serious develop there exist in the standing arrangements for consultation between my department and the United States federal aviation agency adequate channels through which this type of problem can be dealt with.


A supplementary question. I wonder whether the minister would care to tell the house whether the report in the Montreal Gazette this morning is correct, which states:
Radar operators at suburban Malton airport reported to the federal transport department that-
-such jamming was going on. My supplementary question is this. Was it stated to the department by those radar operators that jamming was taking place?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think I can state the answer any more clearly than to say that this jamming theoretically can

take place; but, if the hon. member was listening, I said that in fact this has not happened.


Mr. Speaker, did the radar operators at Toronto report that it was happening when presumably the investigation showed it was not?


Mr. Speaker, I have said several times now that it did not happen.


There is no report that it did happen?


Can the
minister tell us whether the plane was making a ground controlled approach immediately previous to the accident?


As I said, I am not aware of any more of the details than I have given already.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday, Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Laurier asked two supplementary questions regarding air traffic control and my answers are as follows.
I assume that the hon. member referred to air traffic control rather than SAGE control, and in this event a full answer to his question would be highly technical. I will content myself with saying that this would depend on the nature of the air traffic control arrangements which may be worked out.
The answer to his second supplementary question again depends upon the interpretation of his question. I do not believe there are SAGE directional centres in Boston or Atlantic city. At Boston a research program of importance is being carried forward with regard to the use of radar and electronic computers and related to the type of equipment -which may be involved in SAGE for control purposes; while at Atlantic city are located the new major research and development facilities of the U.S. federal aviation agency, covering all fields of aviation. My department is maintaining close and continuing contact with the work at both places through frequent visits as well as meeting for the exchange of information with F.A.A. officials.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of

Agriculture this question. When a provincial minister of agriculture assures him that the cattle breeders of a prescribed area want the test and slaughter plan inaugurated for brucellosis control, does the minister's department pay compensation on animals condemned on the first test? If not, when does compensation payment commence?


Mr. Speaker, once an area has been designated as a brucellosis control area for the eradication of brucellosis, livestock owners are eligible for compensation for cattle which prove positive to the test and are ordered slaughtered by this department. The compensation is available for all official tests, starting with the first.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I can ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration whether the hon. lady has received any protest from Chief Joseph Logan and other members of the Six Nations band protesting the use of trust funds belonging to the band to pay the children's aid society. If so, has the minister any comment on this protest?


Mr. Speaker, I have received no protest. The Indian affairs branch does have agreements with some 20 or 25-I am not sure of the exact number- children's aid societies, and the children's aid society of Brant county is one of them. This agreement has been in effect for about three years now, after receiving the approval of the provincial government, and was instituted in order to ensure that the children on Indian reserves receive as adequate care as that extended to children who occupy non-Indian residences. We are quite happy with the agreement as it exists. A member of the Six Nations band council is on the children's aid society committee which operates the service in Brant county.


Can the hon. lady say whether the children's aid society is in fact paid from trust funds or by the department?


If they receive any funds at all they would be received with the approval of the band council which has control, as the hon. member knows, of the funds that are expended.
Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
In the light of exchanges which took place in the Ontario legislature on Tuesday, I wonder whether the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration can confirm to the house the information which she gave last June 4. At that time I asked this question:
Did the minister receive an application from Ontario hydro for permission from the governor in council to institute expropriation proceedings on the Chippewa Indian reserve at Sarnia?
At that time the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration answered categorically no. I wonder whether she could confirm that answer ax the present time.


Yes, Mr. Speaker; the original answer I gave is correct.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Has the minister seen the news item in yesterday's Toronto Globe and Mail indicating that Australia is opening the door for 3,000 refugees? Can the minister inform the house whether the government will consider similar action to enlarge the number of refugees admitted to Canada?


I answered a similar question in the latter part of January. There have been a great number of refugees enter Canada within the last year. Of course when you relate this 3,000 to the 100 tubercular refugees, that makes a little different story; but I told the house that close to 3,000 refugees came into Canada last year over and above the number who, with their families, came in as tubercular refugees.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, because I like the sound of the minister's voice may I direct another question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration?


A change of pace.


Can the minister give the reasons why guests invited to the opening of the national gallery will have to wear white ties

Inquiries of the Ministry where the ceremonies will take place and where presumably the Prime Minister will he, while black ties or no ties at all will be acceptable in other parts of the building?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Postmaster General is jealous. In answer to the hon. member's question, the only thing I can say, after having answered this question two or three times now, is that I propose to attend the ceremonies myself and may I say for the hon. member's information that I do not propose to wear a white tie or any other tie.


May I ask the minister another question. If I do not wear a white tie may I have the pleasure of meeting her there?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Order. I am afraid we cannot conduct such an agency here.


should like to ask a supplementary question which springs from some telephone calls I tried to put through before coming into the house. As a result of my attempts to telephone the family allowances division I find that the number given in the new telephone book is actually the number of the national gallery. Would the minister see that this added embarrassment to the national gallery is corrected as soon as possible, so that white ties will not be confused with three cornered ones?


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the hundreds of millions of dollars being spent importing into Canada automobiles and consumer goods of a kind already made here, has the Department of Trade and Commerce given any consideration to sponsoring a national campaign to make Canadians "Buy Canadian" conscious?


I doubt the urgency of this question, Mr. Speaker. The problem of encouraging Canadians to buy goods made in Canada is one which is of importance, and that type of campaign has been going on under the auspices of business organizations for some considerable time.


Has the department given any consideration to a national campaign sponsored by the government? That was the question.


There is no consideration being given, at the moment, Mr. Speaker, to a national campaign under the auspices of the Department of Trade and Commerce. The hon. member's suggestion will be taken under advisement.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Revenue (Mr. Nowlan).
On Thursday, January 28 last, I asked the minister why an important interview with the new premier of Quebec, which had been scheduled for 9 p.m. on January 24, was cancelled without any reasons being given. On Tuesday, February 2, the minister answered that the cancellation arose as the result of a misunderstanding between the office of the premier and the office of the C.B.C.
According to a report just issued by the Quebec information service the premier of Quebec had informed the C.B.C., nine days previously, that he could not take part in this program.
Could the minister ask the C.B.C. authorities to inquire further into this matter?
(Text):


If the hon. member will send me a copy of his speech I shall attempt to reply.


I should like to ask a supplementary question.
(Translation):
Could the minister also inquire of the C.B.C. whether, in fact, the program was cancelled because the premier was afraid he might put his foot in it, during this live broadcast, as was done by some federal ministers?
(Text):


Order. The hon. member is taking advantage of the opportunity that is given to him to ask questions to attempt to give information.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of National Revenue, to whom I have not been able to give notice of this question, whether he would take up with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation the desirability of televising over the C.B.C. some or all of the hockey games at the Olympic winter sports in which the Canadian team takes part, notwithstanding the fact that the Columbia Broadcasting System seems to have the rights for such televising on this continent.


I shall be glad to take the matter up with the C.B.C. management; but as the hon. member says, or as I gather, there is a prior contractual situation there which makes it very difficult.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In view of the fact that in several parts of the country hospital accommodation could be offered in sanitariums where such space is available, would the government be prepared to consider the payment of grants for the conversion of such institutions in order that they may provide general hospital care?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. My department would be pleased to hear from any province on projects of this type under the hospital construction grant, either for new construction or major renovation.


May I ask a supplementary question. What advice would the minister give to the people of Ottawa with respect to the provincial institution here, which is underemployed in so far as hospital beds are concerned, and is very close to the Ottawa Civic hospital?


I do not know to which institution the hon. member is refer-ing, but my previous answer applies in all cases.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister
Inquiries of the Ministry of National Health and Welfare. In view of the fact that many Canadians are presently suffering from silicosis, and in view of the fact that a number of these people have moved from province to province, making it difficult to establish in which province the disease was contracted, with the resultant refusal of each province and each compensation board to grant assistance, would the minister try to arrange at an early date a conference of ministers from each of the provinces dealing with health and welfare in order to bring about a satisfactory settlement of these problems?


This problem in my estimation is purely of a provincial administrative nature. I would suggest that possibly the hon. member might wish to bring the situation to the attention of the association of provincial workmen's compensation boards.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Montmagny-L'Islet put another question to me yesterday about the position of air terminal superintendent at the Montreal airport.
As I have already said, the services of a bilingual person are required. I also mentioned that the position is filled by the civil service commission. I suggest to anyone wishing to apply that he send in his application to the civil service commission, quoting competition No. 60-489.


I think the minister is mistaken. This question was put by the hon. member for Drummond-Arthabaska, and not by the hon. member for Montmagny-L'lslet.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Finance whether he noticed in yesterday's Ottawa Journal an article headed "$72,000 from government has them in a fog" which has reference to a $72,000 "program of improvements to the Porcupine airport" included in the estimates which is said to have "aroused confusion in Timmins, Ottawa and

Inquiries of the Ministry Toronto". Can the minister tell the house whether or not this is one of the items which passed that careful and detailed review by the treasury board which he reported to the house on February 4?


Order. Is that matter not better left to be dealt with on the estimates, when the item comes before the house?


Surely we should get out of the fog in the meantime.


You will never get out of your fog; it is self created.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I do not want to make the Postmaster General jealous. I should like to ask him this question. Is he aware of another robbery which took place at Ste. Rose on Monday last, involving an amount of over $50,000? If so, does he consider that this is a regular and ordinary part of the service he gives to the general public?


Order. This recurring question I think I shall have to deal with by putting a prohibition on it. I have expressed my view on it previously. Unless there is some unusual circumstance, it is not proper to bring so often before the house as an oral question the ordinary administration of the criminal law dealing with robberies, whether in connection with post offices, banks or any other institutions.


Surely the hon. member should not be discouraged in his efforts to protect the taxpayers' money in this way, and to persuade the Postmaster General to stamp out these practices.


The hon. member certainly has the right to make those efforts, but I think he is exercising it in the wrong way.


All I want to know is whether the Postmaster General intends to change the present system in order to protect the general public.


I understand that the hon. member asked this question earlier. I think asking it once should suffice.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade

and Commerce, arising out of the continuing and worsening cash shortage on the prairies. Could the minister say whether he is in a position to announce the interim payment on wheat? I would point out that he promised the announcement would be made before the end of January. I wonder if he could now say when an announcement will be made, and how much the payment will be per bushel?


I am not in a position to make an announcement today, but I think an announcement will be made in the course of the next few days.


A supplementary question. Is the minister delaying this announcement so it can be made at the time the Prime Minister gives his final answer, or his complete answer, to the western farm delegation? Will these two announcements be made simultaneously?


There is no such purpose at all in the alleged delay.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if I could ask the Minister of Agriculture whether he has yet heard from the minister of agriculture of Manitoba about the correspondence we have asked to have tabled; and, if not, could he get in touch with his friends and expedite a reply?


The answer to the first part of the question is no. I have been in touch with my friends, and I expect I shall be receiving an answer shortly.


The house resumed, from Wednesday, February 10, consideration of the motion of Mr. Green:
That items numbered 75 to 106 inclusive, as listed in the main estimates 1960-61, relating to the Department of External Affairs be withdrawn from the committee of supply and referred to the standing committee on external affairs, saving always the powers of the committee of supply in relation to the voting of public moneys.
Mr. Speaker, the announcement made this morning by the President of the United States of a new proposal-which will be discussed at the nuclear conference of three powers now under way in Geneva-together with the speech yesterday by Chairman Khrushchev to the

parliament of India in Delhi, emphasize the relevancy and the urgency of the position Canada should take in this all-important question, to use the words of the Secretary of State for External Affairs disarmament.
The President's statement as announced this morning is that the United States is proposing to end forthwith, under assured controls, all nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere, in the oceans, in those regions in space where effective controls can now be agreed on, and beneath the surface of the earth in cases where they can be monitored. Then the President made a significant observation, when he said the achievement of a workable nuclear test ban was by far the most important and difficult beginning to be made on the general subject of disarmament.
It is interesting to note that the position taken by Canada with regard to the unqualified banning of tests is to be contrasted in part with the proposal announced by the President of the United States, I do not need to spend needless time in justification of the consideration of disarmament in this debate.
I formed the impression after reading the minister's remarks this morning that, unintentionally, I am sure, he did convey the impression that this government was concerned with disarmament as its foremost objective. He also left the impression that not much had been done in this field in the period immediately preceding the time when hon. gentlemen opposite took over the responsibility of government in Canada.
That, of course, would be a wrong impression for anyone to have, because it will be recalled that almost at the very end of the war Canada and the government of that day, together with the friendly associated powers, did take immediate and comprehensive steps to bring about a solution to the problem of atomic armaments. In 1945 the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada offered to reciprocally share information concerning the practical application of atomic energy as soon as effective safeguards were devised against its use for destructive purposes. It will be remembered that at the first meeting of the United Nations Canada was made a member of the atomic energy commission. Following this joint declaration by the three heads of government, including Canada, there was presented a comprehensive, a most selfless plan for disarmament, and particularly nuclear disarmament, by the United States through Mr. Baruch, as the intermediary in the atomic energy commission.
It is important to remember what that proposal was. It suggested an international atomic development authority to which-
-would be entrusted all phases of the development and use of atomic energy, starting with the
External Affairs
raw material, with managerial control or ownership of all atomic energy activities potentially dangerous to world security, and power to control, license and inspect all other atomic activities, and which should itself be the world leader in the field of atomic knowledge and development so as to enable it to comprehend and therefore detect misuse of atomic energy.
The record now demonstrates that the Soviet union rejected this proposal and countered with one of its own, in which it was insisted that there should be an immediate prohibition of the use, production and accumulation of atomic weapons. That remained until 1954 the cardinal principle of Soviet policy on disarmament. There can be no doubt that the failure to make any progress in disarmament until 1955 was due, in my judgment, to the intransigence of the Soviet union with regard to this proposal and to its subsequent modifications, and other later proposals made by the western powers.
After 1955 the Soviet union did agree to a measure of international inspection and control, but never in specific and definable terms. The house will recall, too, that in 1954 the United Nations decided to create a subcommittee of the disarmament commission. As an indication of the interest Canada took in disarmament at that time, to the United States, Great Britain, France and the Soviet union as members of that committee was added the name of Canada.
The Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson) took part in the initial work of that subcommittee. If the subcommittee did not succeed-and it did not-the fault certainly was not that of Canada. The fault, generally speaking, was not that of the west, although I must say in an effort to be objective that the fault does not entirely rest on the Soviet union from that period on.
It is significant that France and Great Britain put forward at one of the early meetings of the subcommittee a comprehensive proposal for disarmament, a plan known as the Anglo-French plan. It was a three-stage disarmament scheme providing for a freeze on military establishments, in the first phase; for a second phase including the first half of agreed reductions in conventional forces and arms plus a cut-off on the production of nuclear weapons, and a final phase which was to see the completion of the remaining half of the agreed reductions of conventional arms. This was to be followed-and this was an answer to the Soviet union-by total prohibition and elimination of all nuclear weapons, and the conversion of all stocks to peaceful uses.
That memorandum represents one of the important landmarks in the discussions on disarmament. This Anglo-French initiative

External Affairs
was rejected by the Soviet union. It was supported by the United States and by Canada as members of the subcommittee.
In 1954 the then permanent delegate at the United Nations, Mr. Andre Vishinsky, made an important statement when he announced in the general assembly that the Soviet union had altered its traditional attitude. No longer would it insist on a ban on the manufacture and use and accumulation of atomic weapons as a condition precedent to entering into efforts to reach a solution on disarmament. And as a further evidence of the position of Canada in these discussions, the recognition of the useful role she had pursued, Canada was selected by the United States, France and Great Britain to carry on negotiations with the Soviet union which led to a resolution that stood in the name of the five powers and received the unanimous endorsa-tion of the general assembly of the United Nations.
Last night the Secretary of State for External Affairs said the resolution on disarmament put forward by the five great powers at the last assembly received unanimous support by all the United Nations, and he interpreted that as an indication of hope for the future.


Mr. Speaker, may I point out to the hon. member that I said it was cosponsored by all 82 nations.


Yes. I do not want to be unfair to what my hon. friend said, but I would suggest that if that was an achievement-and it was merely a procedural resolution-so too was the achievement of 1954. But the significant point is that there was no constructive result arising from the unanimity. We should not draw unwarranted conclusions from unanimity on procedural resolutions, asserting that as a result we have cause to think we are now entering a more successful chapter in disarmament discussions. I hope we are, but I think it is well for us to curb our optimism with realism and give careful scrutiny to steps that may be taken which may represent more form than substance. Let us hope that the situation is otherwise.
It seems to me the next important step was the summit meeting in Geneva in 1954, when President Eisenhower, Sir Anthony Eden and Prime Minister Faure of France confronted Mr. Bulganin and Mr. Khrushchev and when, as the result of a week's talk, four proposals on disarmament were put forward.
I would again suggest to hon. members that the spirit of Geneva that flowed from that summit meeting, giving hope as it did to all of the peoples of the world, has its counterpart

in the kind of possible false hope that could ensue as a result of discussions now under way. We must not be misled by generalizations of any kind. In our efforts to bring about disarmament we must recognize the value of a healthier international climate, but before giving final judgment we must see whether or not we have the acceptance of positions which we think are necessary for the maintenance of our security and for the successful pursuit of our objectives in the field of disarmament.
At this summit meeting a number of proposals were made, and for my present purposes the significant one was that put forward by President Eisenhower. He said to Mr. Khrushchev and Mr. Bulganin, "It is now scientifically impossible to detect undisclosed or secret nuclear weapons. You admitted that in discussions in the subcommittee only a few weeks ago. That being the case, since we cannot at present have full control on disarmament I make a proposal to you. Let us exchange our military blueprints. Let each give the other the opportunity of carrying out an aerial inspection survey in the territory of the other". The Soviet union did not accept that proposal. Canada was the one country, recognizing the scientific fact and the desirability of creating a, healthier international atmosphere, that did give support in principle to the Eisenhower proposal.
I think it is significant to note that as a result of the four-power meeting the subcommittee were instructed by the heads of the four governments to resume their discussions. They did not decide anything on disarmament. That was left once again to the subcommittee. It will be remembered that the subcommittee had its first meeting after the summit meeting on August 14, 1955. It will be remembered, too, that in September of that year the President of the United States suffered a serious heart seizure. From that moment on the Geneva spirit disappeared or dissipated. From that time forward there was no evidence of any progress, in spite of the good intentions and the healthy atmosphere that prevailed at the meetings in Geneva.
Canada at that time took a position, one that reflected the independence of Canada in foreign policy, as a result of the initiative and the character given that policy by the present Leader of the Opposition. We took the position that because we were apparently not able to resolve any of our differences, if we could not agree on some measure of disarmament on existing weapons, conventional or nuclear, could we not try to arrive at some agreement with respect to weapons

which were not then in existence? We of course had reference to the intercontinental ballistic missile.
It is not the fault of Canada-the record is there for everyone to see-that even more terrible weapons of war now confront us on an increasingly alarming scale. If our point of view had been pursued and accepted by all concerned it is possible that we would not be talking today of missiles that are capable of bringing about even greater destruction than other instruments of war.
This is perhaps what the Prime Minister was thinking about when at the general assembly in 1957 he said:
Experience has taught us that no country ever possesses a monopoly on any device. What one country has today, the other nations will have tomorrow, and the day is not far distant, if this continues, when there will be armouries of these rockets.
So we did take this position, even though it was a position which we alone took. We took another position. Because of the statement made by the President about the scientific fact precluding the complete control of undetected nuclear weapons, the United States reserved its position on all matters to which it had given its support up to that time. I -have referred to the Anglo-French memorandum of March, 1954 which was, apart from the Baruch plan, the first comprehensive proposal. The United States, through Mr. Harold Stassen, on September 6, 1955 stated:
The United States does now place a reservation upon all of its pre-Geneva substantive positions taken in this subcommittee, or in the disarmament commission, or in the United Nations on these questions in relationship to levels of armament.
Canada sought to persuade her -close and friendly associate in these matters that this was an unnecessary position to take, but other members of the subcommittee also took this position. The result wat that the agreement on manpower ceilings, the disarmament program produced by Britain and France, the 50 per cent arrangement about the cutoff, the 75 per -cent arrangement about the elimination of nuclear stocks, the detailed plan for inspection and control were all withdrawn. I believe that was at that time an unnecessary step. The Soviet union certainly did not make matters easy by taking the position it did with regard to bases and the like. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, there -can be no doubt that during all of this period Canada has pursued, I believe diligently, its policy of trying, in concert with -other countries, to bring about an agreement on disarmament.
There was no want of independence; there was no reluctance to take a responsible position when it had to be taken, and I suggest to the Secretary of State for External
External Affairs
Affairs that if this is the important matter he says it is in current international affairs, Canada will have to do more than rely on its popularity as -a substitute for policy. Canada will have to do more than make generalizations with regard to this important matter if it wants to make the kind of contribution which I believe all of us want Canada to make at this time; and I am sure "all of us" includes the hon. gentleman who spoke yesterday. But I complained yesterday -and I think with some right-that in a matter of this sort, having in mind the importance which the hon. member attaches to this problem, it was regrettable that the government did not put forward some of its proposals or, at least, the principles on which those proposals are based.
I mentioned that Great Britain had taken that course in September. Chairman Khrushchev outlined the Soviet union proposals. Today we have the President of the United States making a proposal with regard to the banning of tests and saying that this is an essential prerequisite to a comprehensive system of disarmament, or to a system of partial disarmament. There are other proposals, namely the proposals put forward the other day by the French government, in which they emphasized the importance of controlling -production and the means of delivery of nuclear weapons.


May I ask the hon. member
whether he is suggesting that the French proposals to which he refers were detailed proposals in any way whatever?


I said they were detailed proposals in the sense in which the proposals of Mr. Khrushchev and the proposals of Mr. Lloyd were detailed proposals. They did not spell out every "i" and every semi-colon, but the proposals in main outline are there. What have we got from the hon. gentleman? I am saying this only because I do feel keenly about this subject, as I know he does; but all we have got from the hon. gentleman is his declaration-and I admit that is important-that he believes in disarmament; that the government believes in disarmament and intends to pursue the matter. All I am saying is that as an earnest, as a demonstration of his good intentions, we should have had from the hon. gentleman a statement that would at least outline the basic program or the basic principles of that program.


May I ask the hon. gentleman whether he thinks it would help to attain the ultimate objective in those negotiations which are to take place between the east

External Affairs
and west if the Canadian government were to come in today and give in detail all its proposals before the negotiations commence?


I have no hesitation in saying that the time has come when the west should seek to dominate the position in terms of influencing world public opinion on this subject. The way to do this is for the western powers not to hesitate to express their positions, as was done by the government of the United Kingdom on the floor of the assembly of the United Nations last September, and as was done from his point of view by Chairman Khrushchev at the same assembly. I say that Canada speaks not only for herself, as the minister acknowledged yesterday, but for a whole series of nations.
We are no less interested in disarmament than is Chairman Khrushchev, perhaps more so; yet he has been able, by the disclosure of the details of his proposals, to give the impression, particularly to the uncommitted peoples of the underdeveloped areas of the world, in Asia, that he more than anyone else is interested in disarmament, when the record clearly shows that the Soviet union has been more intransigent in this particular than any other country. Surely it would not be exposing our flank if the minister, in discussing this matter yesterday, had said that he concurs in the principles, for instance, in April 24, 1952 in the disarmament commission.
Are these principles still the policy of the government of Canada? We do not know. I have no doubt they are; I would find it very difficult to believe that they could not be; but those principles, setting out clearly the attitude which this country and other countries took, were not even referred to by the hon. gentleman yesterday. I can only assume that there would be no exposing of one's position by reciting principles that were referred to time and time again by spokesmen for Canada in discussions in the general assembly, in the main outlining principles which established our position in the matter of controls, our attitude on reductions in conventional forces, our attitude as to when there should begin a prohibition of atomic weapon use and manufacture.
Surely we are entitled to know whether these are still the principles. This is important, because apparently they no longer represent the principles to be adopted by France, particularly in the matter of nuclear weapons. Therefore it would be important -certainly it would be important for the people in India, for other people who have been influenced by what I think oftentimes on the part of the Soviet union has been propaganda-not	always-to convince those

people that the west is seriously dedicated to the prosecution of disarmament, in the hope that we can transfer tremendous sums of money for purposes of defence, and capable of being used for purposes of destruction, into constructive purposes of national development and health and welfare. There is so much involved in these principles that I want to say to the minister that he will find that unless he is prepared to give more than lip service to this question, we will not make the contribution which we should and which I know we want to make.


Would the hon. member permit a question? I gather from the line of approach he is taking that he places chief reliance for the solution of the disarmament problem on some plan or other which may be produced by a particular nation, either of the west or of the east. Is the hon. member not aware that at the basis of disarmament plans lies the desire of establishing some measure of confidence between the west and the east, and that that is the principle upon which any disarmament plan must be based?


My hon. friend and I are not at issue on that at all. Of course confidence is important. If there is no confidence there will be no agreement. But I am speaking of proposals. The Secretary of State for External Affairs said that Canada had proposals. I am not inquiring whether these proposals embody the six principles that were laid before the United Nations on April 24, 1952. I am asking whether or not these proposals are designed to create the very kind of confidence of which my hon. friend has spoken.
Then there is the discussion that is now going on at Geneva among the three nuclear powers. President Eisenhower said without any equivocation today that this particular conference has a bearing upon the outcome of the disarmament discussions that are about to begin. So it is important for us to know what is the position of the government in these matters. The Secretary of State for External Affairs the other day, in answer to a question by the Leader of the Opposition, unhesitatingly acknowledged that the position of Canada with regard to the cessation of tests was that the government was in favour of a ban on tests without qualification. That is a statement of great importance. It will be interesting to see, because of the position taken by the United States today, What the position of Canada will be when these discussions are ultimately projected in the committee room of the ten-power committee.


Would the hon. gentleman allow a question, because he is being very helpful? Would he say what his view is as to whether or not that is the proper position for Canada to take?


The Leader of the Opposition has clearly stated our position. Of course we believe unreservedly in disarmament. We believe that at this period there can be only one way to disarm, and that is by mutual understanding based on conditions of control that will give each side the firm confidence that there will be implementation of undertakings solemnly committed. That is a position which I would unhesitatingly take.


Perhaps the hon. gentleman will now answer the question. Is your party against any further nuclear tests?


I take it that my hon. friend is as helpful in his question as the Prime Minister said I was in my comment. This is a matter that does not invite frivolity, and I am sure the Secretary of State for External Affairs would be the last man to be frivolous in a situation like this. Our position has been stated over and over again by one who is certainly one of the very few to have received international recognition for his work in trying to bring about a cessation of tests and in trying to bring about peace in the world.
We are not at odds on this basic principle. Of course we want to see tests banned, and we want to see them banned in such a way as not to give an advantage to any country that is prepared clandestinely to violate undertakings solemnly committed. That is the position this party takes, and I am sure that on reflection that is the position which hon. gentlemen opposite take. But I ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs, in view of the statement of the President that these discussions in Geneva have relevancy in terms of the discussions of the ten-power committee, does Canada agree that there should not be any use of nuclear weapons in any kind of war? Does Canada agree that there should be no tests of new weapons in experimental research? Does Canada agree that there should not be any new fissionable or fusionable material made for war-like purposes? Does Canada agree that there should not be stockpiling of nuclear weapons, and that there should be conversion of existing stocks to peaceful uses at the dates and by the methods which a disarmament treaty might lay down?
In the British proposal will be found some of these principles. I ask, why could they not have been at least outlined in some general way by the Secretary of State for External Affairs; or does the government take
External Affairs
the position that these various facets of the banning of nuclear tests must all be taken together, that one cannot be accepted without the others? These are questions which I think the country and parliament are entitled to ask.
I believe a mistake was made by some of the western powers in unduly linking the solution of political questions to disarmament. I do not say, and I applied this in answer to the hon. member for Saskatoon (Mr. Jones), that we can fail to take into consideration the political controversies as between the great powers particularly. But does the government take the position that we cannot proceed, that we cannot have a comprehensive system of disarmament, in the absence of a solution of the major political problems of the day? Do we take the position, for instance, that there is no hope of making a real start on disarmament unless there is suspension of tests under adequate control, unless there is a major disengagement of conventional forces and armaments in Germany and her neighbours, unless there is an agreement regarding the status of West Berlin and some progress with regard to the German question? Is that our view? There was not a word about this from the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
I am saying this only because I believe that in a matter of this sort, with a country like Canada that no longer, in the language of the Secretary of State for External Affairs, is going to pursue the course of an honest broker, a country that is going to maintain an independent position, that is going to prosecute this question as it thinks it should be prosecuted, we have a right to expect more from my genial friend the Secretary of State for External Affairs than we got yesterday from his tour around the world that did not last 80 days but only about 90 minutes.
In conclusion I suggest to the Secretary of State for External Affairs that Canada should have a plan of its own. That may be a synthesis of other plans. The minister said yesterday that Canada has such a plan. I take it that it will be a plan that will enable us to look at the whole problem in terms of what might emerge as a comprehensive treaty. Such a treaty, even if it were put forward as an objective apart from the difficulty there is in the absence of settlement of some political controversies, would have wide interest in this country and in the world. I am sure if the Secretary of State for External Affairs of Canada put forward at least in general terms, in general principles, the point of view of Canada with regard to this matter it would evoke in countries like India, Indonesia, Malaya, Indo-China, Cambodia and the countries he spoke of yesterday a great deal of

External Affairs
interest. It would reveal to these nations that there are countries determined to try and do something about this problem. However, I regret that the Secretary of State for External Affairs did not take advantage of this particular debate to do so.
I suggest that at this time Canada might work toward bringing about some agreement with regard to weapons not now in existence. We tried to do that with regard to the
I.C.B.M., and that was a gigantic problem to face. I say to the Secretary of State for External Affairs that with all the sincerity he possesses, with all the honour and integrity of character he possesses, he could play a great role in trying to impress upon all the powers concerned that if we cannot get an agreement on disarmament generally, might we not at least, in addition to agreement on the cessation of tests, get agreement with regard to some of these vehicles and instruments of war not yet fully created. Could we not urge the elimination of vehicles that might carry atomic weapons, such as satellites, rockets, supersonic aircraft, ocean-going submarines and launching pads that are capable of adding to human destruction way beyond the fancy and imagination of man?
There are ways by which this could be done. We could suggest a first stage of getting the nations to report their existing weapons and programs to an international disarmament commission. There could be a second stage when prior notice would be given, and when there would be some control of tests. There could be another procedure devised for the destruction and control of stockpiles. These are suggestions that come to one's mind. In any event, Mr. Speaker, I say there are many problems that the nations of the world have to face today. I believe the Prime Minister was right when he said at the general assembly of the United Nations that this is the foremost problem of all. Wars are not necessarily caused by arms but, as Mr. Churchill said in 1912 and in 1936, the existence of these tremendous weapons in itself is a potential danger to peace among the nations.
I say, Mr. Speaker, th