Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce to the house the resignation from the ministry of the Secretary of State, the hon. member for Labelle (Mr. Courtemanche). I express my personal deep regret as well as that of my colleagues that the state of the minister's health has made it necessary for him, in his own interests, to tender his resignation.
The hon. member has had a distinguished career as a member of this house between 1949 and 1953 and again since June 10, 1957. He has given of himself unselfishly in the service of parliament and of Canada, both as deputy speaker in this chamber following his appointment on October 14, 1957, and as a member of the administration since May 12, 1958.
I am sure the house will join with me in expressing the hope that in the days ahead he may be able to continue his public service in whatever capacity his health will permit.

On the orders of the day:


I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will the resignation of the Secretary of State delay the nomination of the queen's printer?


The answer is no.


On the orders of the day:
May I address a question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister in a position to tell the house what are the duties and responsibilities of the new Associate Minister of National Defence as compared with those of the Minister of National Defence?


I am not sure whether that is a question asking for a legal opinion. I suppose the hon. member is asking for an interpretation of the act establishing the ministry.


I believe you are aware, Mr. Speaker, that this position is a new one-


No.


Where have you been?


Order. I have some doubt about the question the hon. member asked, and he is endeavouring to explain what he has in mind.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker-


A point of order is already before me. Is this the same one?


Yes.


I will hear the Minister of Justice as soon as I have heard the hon. member for St. Denis.


May I point out that when I said this was a new position I meant that last year there was no associate minister.


I am not concerned about that. I am asking the hon. member why he should ask that question. I have given him some reasons why he should not, according to our practice.


I did so because it seems to me there is some confusion as to the responsibilities of the two ministers. I want to know this. When an important question of national defence arises, which minister attends to it?


I should have thought that the answer to why a question of this sort is not in order on the orders of the day, where questions of urgency are supposed to be asked, was self evident to the hon. member. A request that the Prime Minister make a statement as to the difference between the duties of two ministers-a minister and an associate minister-is surely not a question of a nature which should be asked on the orders of the day.


On this point of order, Mr. Speaker, is it not important, in order to assist us in the direction of our questions, to know how these two equal ministers in one department have divided their duties?


I think it is undoubtedly important to know the division of responsibility as between the two ministers, but I doubt if this is the proper time to inquire into that subject, and I rule the question out of order.
78	HOUSE OF
Colombo Plan-Statement on Aid to India

On the orders of the day:


May I direct a question to the associate minister of defence. Would the minister tell the house the date of the provincial election in Quebec?


Order. I am sorry, but I cannot accept that question as being within the administrative responsibility of the associate minister. I rule it out of order, and refuse to allow the question to be answered.


Mr. Speaker, I have a short statement to make concerning Canadian Colombo plan aid to India.
The house will wish to know that under the 1959-60 Colombo plan program Canada has agreed to make available to India $25 million, which will be used to provide Canadian commodities and equipment requested by the Indian government to help carry forward its second five-year development plan.
This $25 million will be used for the following purposes: $11.5 million for the provision of industrial metals including aluminum, copper and nickel which are required to maintain an adequate level of industrial activity and employment for the balance of the current five-year plan; $7 million for the provision of wheat to meet urgent food shortages; $2.55 million for fertilizers which will be used to help meet one of India's most urgent problems, increased production of food; $2 million which will be used to purchase diesel locomotives; $130,000 for three cobalt beam therapy units; $700,000 for further work on the $8.7 million Canada-India reactor which is being built near Bombay; $250,000 for radio teletype equipment to assist India in expansion of its meteorological facilities; $120,000 for raw asbestos required for the construction of factories and industrial housing; $750,000 which will be used to carry out feasibility studies on four hydroelectric projects which India has requested Canada to consider for financing under the Colombo plan.
In addition to the foregoing capital aid allocations, Canada is continuing its program of technical co-operation in India as part of its over-all Colombo plan program for south and southeast Asia.
With reference to the 1958-59 program for India, it has now been agreed that $380,000 which had not been allocated to specific projects in that program will be used to provide


$250,000 worth of copper and $130,000 worth of equipment for a scheme to improve the milk distribution system in Calcutta.


Mr. Speaker, the house will, of course, welcome any measure of support under the Colombo plan to assist underdeveloped countries in the world, particularly in Asia and especially India. The Colombo plan was not established within the last two years but is a program that has now had an opportunity of exercising a very beneficial effect, along with the assistance of other countries in the commonwealth and the United States.
The assistance to provide for diesel motors, the assistance given to India by way of purchase of equipment, particularly such things as cobalt 60, likewise does not mark a new effort on the part of the Colombo plan. One can only say that in so far as it is within our power to join with other countries in assisting underdeveloped countries in the world, we are making a very definite contribution to the peace of the world.
However, we would want to be sure that the initiative, for instance, in respect to wheat, came from India itself, and that it was not as the result of a policy created by the government for the purpose not so much of carrying out the main objects of the Colombo plan but of relieving the government from some of its own domestic embarrassments. It would therefore be interesting to know whether or not the initiative for wheat came from the government of India.
Mr. Speaker, the house generally will approve of the main objects of a program designed to assist a country with which Canada has such close traditional and mutual interests.


Mr. Speaker, as always we in the C.C.F. group welcome and support any move by the government to make moneys available for the operation of the Colombo plan. We think that economic assistance of the type the minister has outlined for a country like India is a service to democracy, and is very much in the interests of the peace of the world. India today faces very grave economic difficulties. Tens of millions of people in that country live on the edge of starvation. For a country like ours, with all the huge surpluses we have of food, this kind of move is one which is not only in the interests of India but is one that we could readily make, and I am hopeful that Canada in the days ahead will be much more generous in this field.
I am not now speaking in criticism of the government, but I hope the Canadian nation


and parliament itself will expand our operations under the Colombo plan and that we shall do far more of this kind of work which is so vitally necessary for the peace of the world.
On the orders of the day:
I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs with a view to clarification of his statement made earlier today on the subject of the Colombo plan. My question is this. Does the contribution of wheat to the value of some $7 million by Canada involve the setting up of counterpart funds by India to be used by that country to develop her economy, or is it meant as a direct gift without the necessity of setting up counterpart funds?


I will have to take that question as notice.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to table copies in English and in French of a report which I have received from the chairman of the tariff board. It covers that part of reference 123 which relates to automatic record changers. I am tabling also a transcript of the evidence presented to the board at its public hearings.
Reference 123 was sent to the tariff board in 1957 by my predecessor. The list of tariff items which he referred to the board covered a wide range of products of the radio, television and electronics industry, as well as automatic record changers. Subsequently it developed that the sector of the Canadian industry which produces automatic record changers was anxious that the board proceed as soon as possible with hearings in relation to its products, but that other sectors of the industry wished to have more time to prepare their proposals for presentation to the board. Accordingly I requested the board to deal with record changers separately from the remainder of the reference. The present report has been submitted pursuant to that request.
As hon. members will see from the report, automatic record changers are at present included in tariff item 445o(i). This item provides for free entry of a long list of parts and components, most of which are of a class or kind not made in Canada, when
Tabling of Tariff Board Report imported for use in the manufacture or repair of radios, record players, combinations, etc. The item is at present bound free under GATT.
Automatic record changers have been manufactured in Canada since 1947 by Audio Tool and Engineering Limited or by Seabreeze Manufacturing Limited, an affiliate of Audio. From 1947 to May 1958 Audio produced changers for sale to both Seabreeze and to other Canadian record player manufacturers. Since May of 1958 Seabreeze has been making automatic record changers for its own use, using tooling and manufacturing facilities leased from Audio.
In its presentation to the tariff board, Audio Tool and Engineering requested that the provision for automatic record changers be deleted from item 445o(i). If this were done, both automatic record changers and finished parts thereof would become dutiable under tariff item 597a(2) at the same rates of duty as complete record players and combinations. These rates are 15 per cent under the British preferential tariff and 20 per cent under the most favoured nation tariff.
On the basis of its examination of the evidence the tariff board came to the conclusion that without tariff protection Audio would not be able to resume the production of automatic record changers for sale to record player manufacturers other than its affiliate, and that in time the production of such changers in Canada would be likely to cease entirely. On the other hand the board found that the imposition of a tariff on changers and parts at the rates proposed by Audio would increase the cost of changers to Canadian manufacturers of record players and combinations, and that this might reduce their ability to meet competition from imports of complete record players and combinations. Moreover, the board saw little advantage in the imposition of a duty on parts. It concluded that if parts continued to be admitted free, Audio could be assisted effectively without the imposition of duties on changers as high as those which had been requested.
The tariff board's recommendation, which is set out on page 24 of the report, is to impose a duty of 7J per cent under both the British preferential and most favoured nation tariffs on automatic record changers, while leaving parts of such changers free of duty.
I can assure hon. members that the board's recommendation will receive careful consideration by the government. In this case it would not, of course, be possible to implement the board's recommendation without first securing a modification of our commitment under GATT with respect to item 445o(i).

Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if the Prime Minister could let the house know how soon the government will table the 1959 edition of his favourite secret publication, the "Canadian Economic Outlook"?


Before the Prime Minister
answers, I should like to assure him that if he will table it we will circulate it.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-31, to amend the Old Age Security Act.


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, the short explanation is that this bill, by way of amendment, would remove the restrictions upon outside residence of those pensioners who are Canadian citizens.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Department of Justice Act to provide for the appointment of two associate deputy ministers of justice.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Labour a question arising out of the joint press release issued today by his department and the Department of Trade and Commerce with regard to the unemployment situation in Canada as of December 10, 1959 in which it is reported that on December 10 there were 549,084 persons on the list of unplaced applicants for jobs as compared with 355,565,


according to the release, on November 12, an increase of 194,319. Will the minister tell the house how many unplaced applicants for jobs there are as of the latest date for which figures are available and in the hands of the minister?


Mr. Speaker, the jump between the two figures from November 12 to December 10 referred to by the hon. member is the result of the seasonal benefits coming into effect on December 1. I do not have with me figures more recent than those that were released by the national employment service as registrations. I do not know the date in which the hon. member is interested.


Mr. Speaker, I know the minister may not have available any figures other than those that are in this release of the unemployment insurance commission and the minister's department, but I am asking him if he will give to the house now, particularly in the light of the important debate that began yesterday, the latest figures he has at his disposal showing the number of unplaced applicants for jobs in Canada. I suggest that he give us the figures, let us say, for January 6.


The number of persons registering at our offices and applying for unemployment insurance was 722,834 as of January 7.


Mr. Speaker, that is the kind of figure I have asked for, and I am grateful to the minister for giving it. It is a figure which as he knows represents a tremendous increase-


Order.


I am sorry the hon. member went on to make a positive statement which is not in accordance with the rules.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister give us the number of active claimants for unemployment insurance benefits as of the same period, that is January 7, the date he has used, in the figure he has just produced for the house of 722,834 people who are applicants for jobs in this country?


I have not that information available, but I will be glad to supply it to the hon. member.


I thank the minister. Would he be in a position to say whether the figure would be between 600,000 and 700,000 persons?


Mr. Speaker, I am not in the same habit as the hon. member for Essex East of projecting figures or even taking guesses.


On the orders of the day:
would like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the recent announcement of the closing of the United States base at St. John's, Newfoundland, the Pepperrell air force base, would the Prime Minister advise this house if his government has any plans to offset the unemployment which will follow as a result?


All I can say is that everything possible will be done to alleviate the resultant unemployment consequent upon the withdrawal of the United States force in that area.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Transport if there is any truth in the rumour that 50 to 60 Department of Transport employees at Gander airport have received notices of dismissal.


I did not hear the question.


I could not hear it either. Perhaps, if the hon. member still thinks it is in order, he would repeat it.


Perhaps we could hear the question.


Is it true that 50 to 60 employees of the Department of Transport at Gander have received notices of dismissal?


Would the hon. member mind repeating the number?


Fifty to sixty.


I wish to thank the hon. member for having given me notice of his intention to ask this question. The answer is that 30 employees at Gander received notice that their services would no longer be required; and if the hon. member will look back in his file to June 23 he will find a three-page letter from myself explaining in great detail why at this time it would be found necessary to dispense with the services of these employees.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister
Inquiries of the Ministry whether he has had further requests from officials of farm organizations with regard to the need for deficiency payments on western grain. Can the Prime Minister say when he will give farm organizations a reply to this submission?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to the first question is yes. The answer to the second question is that the matter is receiving most extensive consideration in the light of all the circumstances.


A supplementary question. Can the Prime Minister say whether it has been brought to his attention that farm unions on the prairies today are engaged in a buyers' strike in an endeavour to get the Prime Minister to come to an early decision?


I did not know, Mr. Speaker, that they were engaged in a buyers' strike. Not knowing that, of course, I am unaware of any reason for such a suggestion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Can the minister tell the house whether the icebreakers stationed in Quebec city harbour and in the lower St. Lawrence are there to maintain ocean shipping in wintertime up to Quebec city?


No, Mr. Speaker, we do not have sufficient icebreakers to perform that task. As the hon. member knows very well, the small icebreaker in Quebec harbour has three specific tasks: first, making sure that the ferry goes across from Levis to Quebec city and back; second, to make sure that ice does not accumulate under the Quebec bridge; and third, to see that much needed supplies are delivered to certain island communities that otherwise would not receive supplies. Other icebreakers are working farther down the river and in the maritime area and in the gulf. They are kept busy all the time, and our icebreaker force is taxed to capacity at all times during the winter months.


This government is used to being taxed to capacity.


Is the minister aware of the statement made by Captain T. N. Beaton, commander of the British ship Granwood, to the effect that winter navigation to Quebec city requires a definite undertaking that icebreakers will be available to assist the ships?

Inquiries of the Ministry As I understood the answer given by the minister, there are not enough icebreakers. The minister must know that there are shipyards at Levis-


Order.


Does he mean by this answer-


Order.


I think the hon. member has given sufficient of his question now to get an answer.


May I answer the question and say that the rate of production of icebreakers since this government came into office is considerably greater than when the government of the hon. member's party was in office.


A supplementary question. Is the minister not aware that with respect to most of the icebreakers that have been built, all the plans were prepared by the previous government?


Order.


I was unable to hear that question. If the hon. member wishes to repeat it, and if the house will remain silent, I will determine whether it is in order.


It was a statement.


May I ask
a supplementary question of the minister, which I hope he will answer. Is it the minister's intention to assist ocean ships which desire to service the city of Quebec by means of the transportation of cargo?


Mr. Speaker, we assist all ships that we can up to the limit of our capacity, and our capacity at the present time has already been reached.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direot a question to the Minister of National Defence, notice of which I sent to him. In the event of a seaman serving on one of Her Majesty's Canadian ships absenting himself without leave in a foreign port, what measures are taken or procedures followed to find him?


Order paper.


How many days are allowed to elapse before steps are taken to track him down?


Mr. Speaker, if a seaman serving in one of Her Majesty's Canadian ships absents himself without leave in a foreign port, the procedure is that the port authorities will be notified, and the senior naval authorities are also notified. If it is a foreign country which is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, then that country is required to assist in the arrest and handing over to Canadian authorities of the absentee. If the country is not a member of the NATO organization, then that country has the right to apply its own immigration laws.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works, to whom I offer my congratulations and best wishes upon his appointment. However, there is a matter which I think should be cleared up right at the beginning of his tenure of office. I wonder whether the minister would be good enough to either confirm or deny a statement reported by the press to have been made by him shortly after his appointment as Minister of Public Works, to the effect that only Conservatives-


I am sorry to interrupt the hon. member, but he is framing his question in a way which forces me to rule it out of order. He knows the practice is not to permit questions which simply ask for confirmation or denial of press reports. If he has some request for information perhaps he could put it in a form which would conform to the practice.


Perhaps if I worded it in this way it would be all right. Is it still the intention of the Minister of Public Works to permit members of the Conservative party to have the privilege of announcing public works projects in their ridings, when this privilege is denied to members of the Liberal or C.C.F. parties?


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hon. member for his congratulations, and to say that it is most difficult to give a definite answer to a hypothetical question.


Does the minister deny having said what was reported in the press?


Order.


Inquiries of the Ministry ARTS. LETTERS AND SCIENCES
On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Will the minister inform the house whether her department is taking any action with reference to the alleged illegal entry into this country of Chinese persons from Hong Kong, as reported recently in articles appearing in the Canadian and Hong Kong press?


Mr. Speaker, the alleged illegal entry of persons into Canada from the mainland of China, Macao and Hong Kong has been a matter of grave concern to my department for some time. Early last year I directed that the situation should be thoroughly investigated. A departmental official went from Ottawa to Hong Kong to consult with the British police, and an exhaustive examination of the situation has been in progress for some months in close co-operation with the authorities of the colony.
It is a little early as yet to evaluate the extent of the alleged illegal entries, but there are indications that a number of persons may be involved both in Canada and in the Far East. I think that is about all the information I can give at the present time.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister relating to his announcement last night of a Hoover type commission on efficiency in Canada, and his other views on the much sharper division of the executive and legislative functions in the United States. Has the government considered the possibility that such a commission may necessarily make recommendations on the function of the executive, and perhaps even judge the executive on its merits, thus invading the responsibility of this legislature?


If any such commission is set up there will be no invasion of any of those constitutional rights which are not proper subjects for the consideration of such a commission.


On the orders of the day:
May I
direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will he be good enough to table the correspondence between himself and the provincial premiers in connection with university grants; and would he see, as has been the custom in the past, that this correspondence is printed as an appendix to Hansard?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon.
gentleman will agree that the permission of the provinces will have to be requested. If that permission is granted I will comply at once with his suggestion.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if the Prime Minister
would, at the same time, seek permission to table all the correspondence with the provinces with regard to the proposed amendment to the constitution?


I made no suggestion, Mr. Speaker, concerning correspondence with the provinces as of this date. I simply expressed-


The speech from the throne does; I refer to the amendment mentioned in the speech from the throne.


Oh, I beg your pardon.
Yes, that will be done, again subject to the usual qualifications.


Perhaps I might be allowed to ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question now. Has there been any correspondence with the provinces with respect to a project for amending the constitution in Canada at any time by the present government?


I think that is a rather
broad matter to put as an oral question. It seems to me that it involves inquiry over events of the past two years. There is nothing urgent about it. The hon. gentleman can get the information through the order paper in the usual way.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, dealing with your statement; you will be aware, of course, that the Prime Minister mentioned this matter last night. It is not

Inquiries of the Ministry one that is in the speech from the throne, and it is one that has caused a great deal of interest, so we are seeking to elicit information on it.


I appreciate that the hon. member is entitled to the information, and to ask for it, but I suggest that the proper way to do so is the way I have mentioned.


On that point, Mr. Speaker, how can we debate this matter during the speech from the throne debate which is now taking place unless we get this information at once from the government?


That is not what is meant by urgency, as I understand the rules.


On the orders of the day:
So that the Minister of Finance will not be left out of these important matters, may I ask him, now that the seminar and study groups on fiscal problems have been completed, if he has yet succeeded in persuading the Prime Minister to set a date for the promised federal-provincial conference on fiscal relations? If the minister would be embarrassed by answering I will fully understand.


The hon. gentleman is all mixed up as usual. He keeps talking about a seminar or study group, but that is not a proper way to refer to a very important continuing committee of officials first established, I may say, under the government of which he was a not inconspicuous or always silent member. The committee has continued its studies. It rendered very valuable services in its reports to the meeting of finance ministers and provincial treasurers that was held in this capital in October, and that continuing committee is pursuing its important studies with a view to rendering assistance to future conferences of ministers of finance and provincial treasurers, as was intended from the outset.
As to the dominion-provincial meeting the hon. gentleman, if he has not been completely oblivious to what is going on, must be aware that an announcement was made on behalf of the government last October that in mid-1960 it is the intention of the government to convene a dominion-provincial conference for the purpose of discussing fiscal arrangements between the dominion and the provinces with respect to the period following the conclusion of the present quinquennial period on March 31, 1962.


I thank my
hon. friend for the full information he has given us. Is that the conference which was promised and which was supposed to have been held two months after the federal election of 1957?


Mr. Speaker, that will be a better conference than any the hon. gentleman ever called or attended.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport, and ask him whether it is true that he himself or his government exerted any pressure or influence on the air transport board with regard to its issuance of a licence to Canadian Pacific Air Lines for a domestic air transcontinental flight.


Mr. Speaker, I did not hear the name of the company.


Canadian Pacific Air Lines. A licence was issued to establish their domestic transcontinental flights.


No, we have not exerted any pressure whatsoever.


As a supplementary question, may I ask the minister to communicate that information to the Progressive Conservative party national association, so they can get their propaganda more in line with the facts.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Is there any import control on turkeys, broilers and chickens coming from United States?


There is in effect import control on turkeys coming into this country from any source. There is no import control on chickens.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of Public Works whether he is in a position to answer the question which I asked of him yesterday?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be happy to have an answer ready for the hon. member on Thursday next.
[Later:}


May I direct a question to the Minister of Public Works, and ask him if it is the practice of the government to postpone either the awarding of a contract or a housing project or plan itself on the recommendation of a member of parliament?


The answer is no, Mr. Speaker.


A supplementary question. Why, then, was the housing project in the city of Cornwall deferred on the recommendation of the hon. member for Stormont, in accordance with his own statement to a local paper, which I will read if the minister wishes, in which it is clearly stated-


Order. The hon. member has completed his question.


Then will the minister answer it?


Mr. Speaker, the date for awarding the contract is February 12. When that day arrives the matter will be dealt with on the responsibility of the minister.


Perhaps I might ask another supplementary question, because the minister did not answer my question. My question was, how is it that a member of parliament can, by recommendation made to the minister, defer a contract of this nature, as he so stated to the press?


I have already answered the question, with great respect.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. In view of the critical unemployment situation in the Atlantic provinces-


Ask your question.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order. I think the house is getting unduly critical when it refuses to hear the question. It is quite customary to introduce a question with an "in view of" prefix, as long as the hon. member does not attempt to make a speech. Would the hon. member please put his question.


I will abide by your ruling, Mr. Speaker, although the unemployment mentioned today in the report that was released by the minister is extremely critical.


Ask your question.


It is not necessary for the hon. member to comment on my ruling. I am trying to obtain a hearing for him.


In order to avoid mass lay-offs in the coal mines of Nova Scotia similar to the release last month of 600 workers at the Eastern Car Company plant in Trenton, Nova Scotia, can the minister advise the house whether he has consulted with the dominion coal board in this regard and also whether action is being contemplated by the government in order to avoid periodical lay-offs in the coal mines similar to the one which took place in the winter of 1959?


Mr. Speaker, in answer to the question asked by the hon. member for Gloucester I must say that this matter is under full consideration every day of every week of every month by this government, which has done more than any other one since it has been in power. I do not have the report on the lay-offs at the Trenton company, but there have been no lay-offs in the coal mines, as far as I know, and I do not think there will be any more lay-offs than there were last year, in spite of the reduction in production. The proof that this government looks after the matter is that it has instituted a royal commission on coal. Mr. Justice Rand is already working on this inquiry, and he will start his inquiry in Regina at the beginning of next month.


I have a supplementary question. As the hon. member is not aware of any lay-offs taking place, has he been informed by the companies concerned that lay-offs will take place this winter?


No, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. In the light of the last figures on unemployment

Inquiries of the Ministry just given by the minister, and in view of the seriousness of the situation, does the minister not think a date should be set immediately for a general debate on unemployment? If so, when can we expect such a debate to take place?





Order. I think the hon. member is inquiring into the business of the house at this time, and I should think his question should more properly be directed to the leader of the house.


With your permission, Mr. Speaker, I will direct my question to the leader of the house. In view of the last figures just given by the Minister of Labour on unemployment, when can we expect that a general debate on unemployment will be provided for in this house?
Hon. Gordon Churchill (Minister of Trade
and Commerce): The figures to which the hon. member refers are not the accurate figures.


Oh, oh.


The minister gave them.


They are not accurate figures. That is manipulation by that man over there.


Oh, oh.


And he is prepared to manipulate more.


Mr. Speaker-


Is the hon. member rising on a point of order?


I am rising on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. The hon. member has just suggested that the figures that have been given are as the result of manipulation by me.


That is right.


The hon. member now confirms that statement. The word "manipulation" is a reflection on my character.


Oh, oh.


I do not think I need to spend any more time other than to say that the figure of 722,834 representing men without jobs was given by the minister.


The point of order did not relate to the figures given by the Minister of Labour. It related to the reflection on the character of the hon. member for Essex East, who has indicated to the house his objection to the expression that he manipulated the

figures. I leave it to those concerned to say anything further on the subject if they wish to do so.


On the point that has been raised by the hon. member for Essex East-


Would the hon. member permit the hon. member who made the statement, if he wishes to do so, to say something on the matter?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I used the word "manipulation", and I used it correctly as it reflects on what has been said by the hon. member for Essex East. The hon. member for Essex East as well as others received a dominion bureau of statistics release in January on the labour situation. The official release shows those who are seeking work, and the correct figure is 370,000. However, this did not suit the hon. member for Essex East, because it was not what he expected; so he looked up the registrations-


Order. Has the minister anything to say about the expression to which objection has been taken?


No. I used it only in the mildest of terms.


Mr. Speaker, I rose to deal with the points which had been raised. Your Honour gave an opportunity to the minister to reply, and he did not give any reason why he used the word "manipulation"-


Order.


-with reference to the figures given by the minister himself. The word "manipulation" constitutes a reflection on the character of the hon. member for Essex East, and the minister should withdraw it.


If I may deal with the question of privilege, it seems to me members are getting a little touchy too early in the session, if they feel that the word "manipulation" is really a reflection upon their character. After all, one would have to manipulate the rules quite a bit in order to arrive at that conclusion.


As you yourself said, Mr. Speaker, there is no point in being needlessly touchy so early in the session, and I rather thought I had indicated that was not my concern. However, the minister has now put in his own release, and I call your attention, in defence of what has been said, to table 2, in which in the first column a figure of 549,000-


Order.


I do not want to have the question of the meaning of these labour figures debated; it is not the appropriate time.


I agree.


In order to ease the feelings of the hon. member, may I say that the dictionary says that the word manipulation means "to handle with skill".


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, may I say, very humbly, that I recognize the validity of that reference.


May I address a question to the house leader, who was apparently manipulated out of answering- perhaps because of the hon. member on this side-the question with respect to a debate on unemployment.


Mr. Speaker, I have been waiting patiently to answer the question, and I was going to say that there will be plenty of opportunity to raise such matters during the course of the debate on the address, or subsequently on supply motions during the course of the session.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister a question which also has something to do with manipulation. Would he inform the house whether it is his intention to send the bill of rights to a committee, and if so, what kind of committee?


Mr. Speaker, when the bill of rights is introduced there will be a discussion and an indication as to the procedure to be followed.


Mr. Speaker, I ask the Prime Minister if he does not think it would be fair to the opposition to let them know in advance of the introduction of the bill and the procedure which will be followed with regard to its later consideration.


I agree entirely.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Friday the hon. member for Mackenzie
Inquiries of the Ministry River asked a question, which appears on page 11 of Hansard and is as follows:
Did the government request the Federal Electric Company to issue orders under threat of dismissal to D.E.W. line personnel against fraternizing with Eskimos? If not, can the Prime Minister tell me under what statute a foreign company can prevent Canadians from such fraternizing?
This question has been transferred to me and the answer is as follows: The Federal Electric Corporation is contractually bound to abide by the provisions of an agreement dated May 5, 1955, between the governments of Canada and the United States to govern the establishment of a distant early warning line in Canadian territory. This agreement provides, among other things, at the specific request of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources, that contact with Eskimos, other than those employed on any aspect of the project, is to be avoided except in cases of emergency.
The purpose of this provision was to reduce to a minimum the disruption of the Eskimo economy, the exposure of Eskimos to diseases against which their immunity is often low, and the general impact of large numbers of single men in a barracks type of life among numerically smaller groups of people living as family units.


Mr. Speaker, my question referred in the first place to an order by the Federal Electric Company to its employees dated September 10, 1959, and I asked: Did the government request Federal Electric to pass on such an order?


Mr. Speaker, I tried to make it clear in my answer that any instructions given to Federal Electric Corporation were part of a contract drawn in 1955. The Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources has not issued any specific instructions. I presume that the company looking at its contract, has decided to issue the order on its own initiative.


May I ask a supplementary question. Is this order applicable to the whole D.E.W. line?


I understand that the hon. member is referring to an order issued by a private company. In those circumstances it would scarcely be within the administrative responsibility of the minister.


May I ask the minister if he would interpret as a contravention of that order the picture of the Minister of Transport and his wife, who were depicted on a Christmas card last year as fraternizing with Eskimos.

Advance Payments to Grain Producers FISHERIES


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for Vancouver East asked if I had received any request for assistance to enable the re-establishment of the herring fishing industry in British Columbia, which has now closed down. To this date I have received no such request.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. Can the minister inform the house when the contract for the construction of a post office at St. Maxime de Scott, county of Dorchester, for which tenders were received on December 16, 1959, will be awarded to the lowest bidder?


I did not hear all the question, but I think it relates to something which is not of such urgency that it might not be placed on the order paper. Would the hon. member agree with that?


I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, but I did not hear you.


Then we are both in the same difficulty. However, if the hon. member would place his question on the order paper I think that would be the better course.


that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to provide for the making of provisional payments to the producers for the 1959-60 crop year in respect of unthreshed grain in the designated area, as defined in the Canadian Wheat Board Act; and to provide for the costs, expenses and other financial obligations required in the making of such advances; such measure to include such further related and consequential provisions as are necessary to give effect to the foregoing.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Flynn in the chair.


Mr. Chairman, before commencing my remarks on the resolution may I take this opportunity of congratulating you on your appointment to the high office you
[Mr. Hardie.l
now hold, and wish you well in the performance of your duties which I know you will carry out with great capability.
I have, Mr. Chairman, a short statement at the resolution stage; holding the view that the debate at the resolution stage need not be prolonged if the measure is not highly controversial, though I know that view is not held by all hon. members of the committee because we have had discussions on it on other occasions. However, I propose to make a short statement at the resolution stage and reserve a more lengthy discussion of the bill until later stages.
The government has been concerned in recent months with the problem faced by western grain farmers who because of abnormal and unseasonable rain and snow storms have been prevented from harvesting their crops. The wheat board undertook a survey of unharvested grain and flaxseed as of October 16. This survey indicated that 250 million bushels of wheat, oats, barley, rye and flaxseed remained unthreshed as at mid-October. This represented about 27 per cent of the estimated 1959 harvest in the prairie provinces. It was more serious for producers in wide areas in central and northern Alberta, in northern Saskatchewan and in northern and eastern Manitoba where from 50 per cent to 100 per cent of the 1959 grain crops were unharvested.
In November and again in the first half of December weather conditions were such that producers in many areas could get on with harvesting operations. The wheat board surveyed the position again in the first week of December, and at that time it was estimated that 100 million bushels of grain remained unthreshed. Thus, according to the best estimates available, the quantity of unthreshed grain diminished by about 150 million bushels between mid-October and the first week of December.
While the over-all problem has diminished in extent there are many producers in each of the western provinces, especially in the more northerly areas, who have been unable to complete a major part of their harvesting. These producers must await the spring before they can thresh the grain under the snow.
The proposed legislation is designed specifically to meet the needs of producers whose income is deferred until they have an opportunity to complete harvesting operations. The fact that considerable progress has been made in harvesting since mid-October does not in any way subtract from the problems of producers who have been unable to make substantial progress in threshing their 1959 grain crops. In the light of the experience with

cash advances under the Prairie Grain Advance Payment Act the government feels that the principle and procedures of that act can be applied in meeting the exceptional circumstances which now exist in respect to that portion of the 1959 wheat, oats and barley crops which remain unthreshed or partially unthreshed.
In the case of unthreshed grain the future position cannot, of course, be precisely defined. Neither producers nor elevator agents know how much grain will ultimately be threshed or to what extent weathering will affect the grades. However, it is felt that this element of uncertainty can be overcome through the practice of endorsing permit books when advances are made, and by prudent limitations on the amount of advances on unthreshed grain.
I would like to make it clear that the resolution does not anticipate legislation which will in any way interfere with the Prairie Grain Advance Payment Act, which provides for cash advances on threshed grain. The proposed legislation will have a limited operative period and will be supplementary to the legislation now on the statute books.
That is a brief summary of the purpose and scope of the legislation which will be introduced on the passage of the resolution now before the committee. I will, of course, have more to say about the details of the proposed legislation at the proper time.


Mr. Chairman, it gives me very much pleasure as the first speaker on this side of the house who rises after you have assumed the chair as Deputy Speaker this session to express on behalf of those on this side our satisfaction with the appointment that has been made. Many of us who have sat with you not only in the house but more intimately in the committee work of the house have become well aware of your high qualifications for the position you are assuming, and of your fairness. We have every confidence in the good judgment that you will exercise in the very high position you now enjoy.
We were interested in the information that has been provided at this stage by the Minister of Trade and Commerce. We are asked in this resolution to make some provision on an emergency basis for the difficulties that have been encountered by the grain growers of western Canada through no fault of their own who, by reason of climatic conditions, are finding themselves unable to harvest a very substantial portion of the fruits of their summer's labour.
We have in recent memory, of course, had three or four similar experiences, and I think
Advance Payments to Grain Producers on each of these occasions, fortunately, the subsequent harvest in the spring resulted in a loss somewhat less than was feared in the autumn. I hope that again this year with respect to this crop the disaster we are considering will be potential and will not prove to be already assured.
The minister reported on a wheat board survey taken in the first week of December of last year, in which it was estimated that after the harvest that followed the early snows, instead of the original estimate of 250 million bushels of grain under snow we found in the beginning of December some 100 million bushels of grain of all types. That may be, but on the other hand there have been some other sources of information at approximately the time referred to by the minister. The largest grain growing province, Saskatchewan, in a crop report dated December 8, 1959, indicated that on a provincial basis as of November 30 of approximately 17 per cent of the wheat and 14 per cent of the oats, barley 