Second report of standing committee on veterans affairs-Mr. Montgomery.
The hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate requested an up to date copy of the occupational counselling guide prepared for the use of the immigration branch of my department. I have furnished him with a copy, and I should like to table the latest copy of this guide at this time. The hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate will recall that on an earlier occasion I tabled a copy of the guide in the house in response to a request made by him on June 25, 1958.
The occupational counselling guide is a monthly report compiled by immigration officers throughout Canada, providing factual information as to employment conditions in different parts of the country. As its name implies, it is used to advise prospective immigrants with various kinds of occupational skills and to assist them in deciding where to settle. The guide does not purport to list specific employment opportunities in the various localities but indicates simply that on the basis of the assessment made by experienced immigration officers in the areas concerned an immigrant with a particular occupation will be better able to settle in one locality than in another, and that even though there may not be an immediate opening in a given area for his specific occupation, the prospects there are generally good for his eventual settlement.
The occupational guide is compiled on a monthly basis and contains for each locality and each occupational classification one of three designations, the letter "G" indicating good prospects for establishment in a particular occupation in a particular area; the letter "L" indicating limited prospects for establishment of immigrants with a particular occupation in a particular area, and a blank space indicating little or no prospects.
I should perhaps add that while it is the immigration branch of my department which
is responsible for the preparation and compilation of the guide, the material which is supplied for this purpose by our field immigration officers is obtained from many sources, including employers. Information is also available from local offices of the national employment service. We are continuing our efforts by every appropriate means to coordinate the information supplied in this way to our officers overseas.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration and ask whether the hon. lady has a statement to make on the Chinese situation.


Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to report yet.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Defence of which notice has been given.
Has the minister's attention been drawn to a report carried by a St. John's radio station yesterday to the effect that the United States government have decided to locate two Nike Hercules missile launching stations in Newfoundland? If so, would the minister comment?


Mr. Speaker, my attention was drawn to that report, and it is absolutely without any foundation at all. The United States cannot establish any sort of missile base in Newfoundland without obtaining the consent of the Canadian government, and that applies to the leased bases as well as to any other territory of the province of Newfoundland. No such application has been made to Canada.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister just stated that the United States government cannot

Inquiries of the Ministry establish a military base on the leased territory without the consent of this government?


According to the original agreements, Mr. Speaker, no major changes can be made in the armaments at the leased bases, so I am informed, without consultation with this government.


On the orders of the day:
A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The same televised news item contained a reference to the closing of the station at Stephenville. Is there any truth in that report?


The base is not being closed, Mr. Speaker. There may be some reduction in the number of personnel.


further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does the minister have any indication as to how substantial the reductions will be?


No, I could not tell the hon. member the exact number.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, inasmuch as Sable island comes within the exclusive legislative authority of the parliament of Canada, and inasmuch as its inhabitants are my constituents under the Representation Act-


Including the horses?


The horses do not vote, but they are not on any payroll either. In view of what I have said may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Would the minister give a public assurance now that should a sale of these ponies eventuate through the Crown Assets Disposal Corporation every attention will be paid with respect to their removal in a proper, humane way?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. After consultation with the Department of Agriculture my department considers that the Sable island ponies should be removed from the island in their own interest. Conditions on the island, including limited forage often covered with snow in the winter, and brackish water have left these animals with stunted growth.
(Mr. Pearson.]
In severe winters they suffer hardship despite periodic attempts by the department to supplement their feed.
Accordingly the department asked Crown Assets Disposal Corporation to invite tenders for these animals. These bids are returnable on June 14, 1960. Bidders must undertake to remove these animals from the island under conditions laid down by the society for the prevention of cruelty to animals and the Department of Agriculture, and the regulations for the handling of horses and cattle at sea under the Canada Shipping Act.


They seemed to thrive under the former administration.


The hon. member should talk to them now. That is not what they tell us.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Minister of Finance, who I understand is acting for the Secretary of State for External Affairs? Has he any statement to make with respect to affairs in Turkey?


Mr. Speaker, news reports this morning have indicated that the government of Turkey has been overthrown by the Turkish army in a bloodless revolt. This development took place during the night and as yet we have received little information. The Canadian ambassador in Ankara, Mr. Benjamin Rogers, has kept the government fully informed in recent weeks. I expect that word will be received from him very shortly on this new development.
While it is too early as yet to comment on the international implications of this development, it is encouraging that the leaders of the revolt have apparently affirmed their intention to uphold Turkey's obligations as a member of NATO, and that they propose to arrange for free elections.
The government as yet has no information to suggest that Canadian citizens or Canadian property in Turkey are in any danger. The house will, of course, be kept informed as reliable information is received. It is reassuring that the Turkish army has promised to ensure the safety and security of all foreigners in the country.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Flynn in the chair.


32.	Construction or acquisition of buildings, works, land and equipment, $16,422,810.
This item will be found on page 6 of the blue book and the details on page 120.


Under this item may we have a progress report on the South Saskatchewan river project? The expenditure of $11 million on an undertaking as large as this does not seem to be very much money. I am wondering whether we might have an explanation as to why the fereal government is spending only $11 million on this large undertaking?


This covers the amount of work contemplated this year; it will cover the amount of work under progress this year.


How much money is it estimated will be the federal government's contribution to this undertaking, and over what number of years is it planned to spread the work?


It will amount to about $72 million, spread over six or seven years.


Item agreed to.
33.	Maritime Marshland Rehabilitation Act including authority to make recoverable advances in amounts not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of the share of the province of Nova Scotia of the cost of the Annapolis river aboiteaucauseway project, $1,634,555.
Will the parliamentary secretary give some indication of the original cost of the aboiteau-causeway, and will he indicate the present position?


Will the hon. member tell me which one he wants?


Item 33, which reads:
Maritime Marshland Rehabilitation Act including authority to make recoverable advances in amounts not exceeding in the aggregate the amount of the share of the province of Nova Scotia of the cost of the Annapolis river aboiteau-causeway project, $1,634,555.
I should like to know the estimate of the cost and what is the progress report at the present time. How much is Canada paying and how much is the province paying?


Canada pays about 74 per cent, and the total amount is $2 J million.


Item agreed to.
34.	Prairie Farm Assistance Act administration, $672,947.
Mr. Chairman, the parliamentary secretary is well aware that in some of the prairie provinces, if not in all three, assistance of the inspectors of the Prairie Farm Assistance Act administration has been utilized in connection with assessments for 79951-0-270
Supply-Agriculture
entitlement under the federal-provincial agreement for payment of assistance with respect to more than 50 per cent of crops unharvested last year after snow came prematurely. I think it would be appropriate to have some report as to the payments that have been sought so far by the provinces under the 50-50 arrangement.


I am told that these people only work part time, and that the total payment to the provinces by the federal government amounts to $4f million up to the end of the year.


That is half the amount that has been paid? What was the date of the reckoning; up to what date?


The end of 1959.


That would represent 50 per cent of the payments?


It is up to the first of April of this year, I am told. We pay 50 per cent of the total amount.


I am not clear. Was the total amount $4J million or does that represent half of the total amount?


It represents our half.


Can the parliamentary secretary advise us whether there are areas in Canada that still have to make contributions to the fund under this act, yet are not entitled to receive assistance in case of crop failure? I believe there were areas in the province of Manitoba where the people used to complain rather loudly that they had to make contributions to the fund yet were not entitled to receive any assistance.


I am told that they may pay in more than they receive, but as far as we know they are all eligible.


What happens in the case of areas that take advantage of the crop insurance legislation passed by the house last year? Are there areas in which the crop insurance scheme now applies and this measure no longer applies?


I can tell the hon. member that if they are not eligible for payment the 1 per cent is not deducted. There are at present four such areas in existence.


Are they all in the one region? Are they all in Manitoba?


All in Manitoba.


Are any plans being made in order that either Alberta or Saskatchewan may take advantage of the crop insurance legislation that we passed last year?

Supply-Agriculture


I am told that Saskatchewan have an act, but they have not put any plan into effect as yet.


I notice that the amount in connection with this item has gone up. Would the parliamentary secretary indicate where the increase occurred, and also in what areas? I should like to know in what areas the emergency assistance legislation passed last year eliminated the operation of this plan, which otherwise would have been in effect in those areas.


I am told the emergency legislation had no effect on that.


I understand that there is a certain area in Manitoba, or rather four areas now, that are implementing crop insurance, and therefore those areas will not be eligible under this particular vote. I wonder if the parliamentary secretary could indicate where the anticipated expenditures of the federal government can be found in connection with this crop insurance legislation. Are they included in these figures?


I am told it is only those farmers who take out insurance in those particular areas who will be affected.


As I recall the legislation which was passed last year it called for a contribution by the federal government, and I do not notice any item in the estimates for that purpose.


It is a statutory contribution and is not in the estimates.


Even if it were, those statutory items are also listed. Even though they do not carry a number they always carry the letter "S". I do not even notice a $1 item listed in the estimates for this particular purpose. I was wondering whether the government expects to have to spend any money this year.


Oh, we expect to have to make some expenditures this year, and they will be covered by the supplementary estimates.


In that case I should like to ask whether any consideration has been given to the many representations that were made last year, or to the expressions of opinion that are to be found in the newspapers, to the effect that the cost of this insurance to the Canadian farmer is excessive. Has the government given any consideration to raising its contribution to the cost in order to make possible a lower premium to the farmer?

I believe the government must be disappointed in the lack of response so far to this crop insurance plan. I think one of the great stumbling blocks has been the high rates the individual farmers are asked to pay.


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman, item 34 in the estimates covers the administration of the Prairie Farm Assistance Act. I cannot see where crop insurance comes in under this item, because there is nothing for crop insurance in item 34.


If I may speak on this point of order, this is the item where we have to discuss this because this item is affected by the extent to which the crop insurance legislation is instituted. The more farmers who come under the crop insurance legislation, the less the amount needed under this particular item. I would like a reply as to what consideration is being given by the government to increasing its contribution under this legislation, thereby encouraging more farmers to take a greater interest in the legislation which we passed last year.


I am told that under the act the premium rates are self-supporting, must be self-supporting.


Is any consideration being given to amending this legislation?


I cannot tell you whether there is or not. That is up to the house. This is only a trial period.


Would there not have to be in this item or in some other item in the estimates an amount to allow for administration costs?


The administrative costs are provided for by statute and will be in a supplementary item.


We have asked a number of times why in the main estimates there should be a $1 item, and we have always been told that the $1 was only a statutory requirement, to keep the statute alive, as it were. Why should there be a difference in this particular case?


We had no scheme in force when these estimates were figured out; it was not in operation.


Item agreed to.
This completes the estimates of the Department of Agriculture.


I would like to thank the committee for their co-operation.


304. Departmental administration, including Canada's share of the upkeep of the international bureaux at Berne and Montevideo, $1,926,670.
Mr. Chairman, I will ask the Postmaster General whether he has any statement to make before we discuss the different items.


Mr. Chairman, while it may seem a sweeping statement, it is nevertheless true to say that never since confederation has it been possible for a postmaster general to record in one annual report, as I will today, such a wide range of new development and progress both internally and in service to the public.
Just a few of the more sweeping changes and developments of the past 12 months have been reorganization within the department and the creation of a comptroller's branch; new equipment developments in stamp vending machines, mail mobiles, delivery carts, plastic mail boxes; extension of service to the public through new letter carrier areas and rural mail routes; improvements in service to the public in fields such as parcel deliveries, the delivery of mail to apartment residents and an increase in accounting post offices; progress in our electronic sorting machine and other equipment; trials of a new mail flow system; new philatelic enterprises and an organized plan to promote interest in Canada in foreign countries by philatelic means; a project to make new stamps available as an aid in the teaching process in Canada; advances in our internal training techniques; improvement in staff relations through closer co-operation with employee associations; plans for a postal history museum; new regulations covering an important category of mail known as householder mail; statistical evidence of improvement in our service as demonstrated by a reduction in complaints received; and various other matters, some of which I will deal with in my report and others which I will not even have time to mention.


Take your time.


As
a result, this year at some 11,270 post offices from Newfoundland to British Columbia almost 50,000 postal employees will handle close to 4 billion pieces of mail originating in Canada more effectively than ever before and with greater satisfaction to the public. If these 4 billion pieces of mail produced by Canadians were laid end to end, they would stretch to the moon and almost back again.
79951-0-270J
Supply-Post Office
If stacked neatly in a pile they would tower as high as 500 Mount Everests.
Members have received a detailed printed report giving complete information on our activities for the year ending March 31, 1959, and I do not plan to repeat this information because it is already available to hon. members. For the fiscal year which ended March 31, 1960 the final and exact figures are not yet available; but I have estimates for the house which will reflect the growth of the department's activities. In the first place, over-all mail volume increased by 100 million pieces to 3.9 billion items. Our estimated revenue for the year just ended is $193.6 million compared to $183,381,000 in the year preceding. Our expenditures are estimated at $191.8 million for the year just ended compared with $183,554,000 for the previous year.
Thus, as against a slight loss of $173,142 for 1958-59, we anticipate an excess of revenue over expenditure of something in the nature of $1.7 million for the year just ended. This reflects again my desire that whenever possible post office revenues and expenditures should be kept in approximate balance. Since we were also faced during the past year with substantial increases in some of our costs, notably those in transportation, the results I have reported reflect prudent administration and good management.
So the committee may be fully informed on our unit costs of operation, with the permission of the committee I would like at this point to insert in Hansard a table showing the cost ascertainment figures of the department for 1958-59, which compares exactly with a similar table appearing in Hansard for March 7, 1957 at page 1986.


Does the committee give consent to have this table printed at this point of the proceedings in Hansardl


Agreed.


might say that I will send one over to the hon. member for St. Denis so he can have the information before him, and will not have to look for it in Hansard.


May we have one too?


will have another copy made for the hon. member and supply it to him later, Mr. Chairman.
[Editor's note: The table above referred to follows:]

Supply-Post Office


Apportionment of total revenue, disbursements from revenue and appropriation expenditure over classes of mails and services based upon cost ascertainment tests made in May and September 1958
Revenue Expenditure Profit	Loss
Volume pieces cents	cents	cents	centsper piece	per piece	per piece per pieceFirst class ordinary	
1,943,798,566
Air mail-
Domestic	 844,443
Foreign	 39,299,744
Parcel post	 403,484
Second class-
Transient	 15,599,896
Publishers	 531,148,886
Third class-
Householder	 294,261,801
Addressed circulars	 823,694,834
Fourth class-
Domestic	 87,056,506
Registration	 15,520,190
Special delivery	 3,111,608
Insurance-
Paid parcel	 377,953
Money orders-
Notched	 18,656,397
Denominative	 35,089,653
5.185	3.358	1.827	-80.982	63.317	17.665	19.594	21.039	-	1.445153.117	238.522	-	85.4055.526	14.865	9.3391.165	5.249	-	4.0841.561	1.548	.013	2.177	1.994	.183	-23.962	24.825	_	.86320.543	47.799	-	27.25610.585	24.445	-	13.8609.535	173.346	-	163.81118.482	21.000	2.51811.240	14.320	-	3.080
During the year we opened 28 revenue post offices to serve small rural communities, and 97 sub-post offices to give local service in urban centres. We also established two new staff post offices, two new postal stations and two new letter carrier depots. Finally, and reflecting a substantial improvement in the housing of our postal activities, we occupied 105 new federal buildings.
Proceeding with our program to streamline our internal organization, which last year saw the creation of our engineering and development branch, we have this year created a new comptroller's branch. This brings under the immediate direction of one senior official, a man of wide experience in accounting practices and postal problems, the internal accounting systems of the department, the operation and control over budgetary arrangements and our purchasing and stores operations. Improved control of these operations will result in a substantial increase in efficiency in these fields.
Canada has recently played a much more important part in the international postal sphere by reason of her position as vice president of the executive and liaison committee of the universal postal union, and in addition we have concentrated much attention on our postal relations with the United States. Currently we are studying revisions to a postal convention between our two countries, a revision which is long overdue.

Our country has proportionately an extremely large volume of international mail, and since much of this travels by air we have made many changes to improve this type of service. The advent of jet aircraft on international routes is beginning to make a tremendous impact on the speed with which mail travels. To cite but one example, by this fall it will be possible for mail to leave London, England at 3.05 p.m. local time and arrive in Vancouver, B.C., at 11.15 p.m. local time, using the regular T.C.A. services. This gives some idea of the possibilities we envision for mail handling and transport by air.
At home, widespread increases and improvements in service have been inaugurated. During the year, for instance, letter carrier delivery service was established for the first time in five communities; Alma, Quebec and Stoney Creek, Georgetown, Whitby and Elliot Lake, Ontario. A total of 29 new walks were established in these communities to serve some 13,523 calls.
In addition to these new services, 306 letter carrier walks were placed in operation during the year to permit the extension of service in other communities already enjoying letter carrier service. A total of some 154,604 new calls, including about 78,360 additional calls on established routes, were added in this way. Beyond these letter carrier services, some 8,353 families were afforded service through group mail boxes

pending the eventual provision of door to door mail delivery when postal requirements have been met.
To improve delivery service in rural areas we have inaugurated during the past year 89 new rural routes and have also made 1,006 extensions to such routes.
In order to improve service after regular post office hours we have expanded our program of installing, at strategic points across the country, government-owned postage stamp vending machines which give full face value in stamps for the money deposited. Five hundred new machines were placed in operation during the past year, bringing the total number owned by the department to 2,026.
In the same field we also have under development at the present time a stamp vending machine designed to meet somewhat less rugged conditions when it is installed inside post offices. Through the use of this machine we hope to avoid some of the pressure on our wicket sales and reduce the occasional line-ups which occur, thus ensuring even better service to the public. We are also developing a completely automatic model which will be actuated by the mere depositing of a coin, so the patron will not have to pull a plunger or exert any effort whatsoever. I guess this is the limit of automation, short of providing the public with the coins to put in the machines, and we have no plans for doing that at the moment.
To improve the postal services available in smaller communities in Canada we have considerably extended the number of accounting post offices because at these it is possible to buy money orders in larger denominations than at non-accounting offices. In 1957-58 we changed from non-accounting to accounting status 66 such offices; in 1958-59, 113 and in 1959-60, 169. Hon. members can see the tremendous increase in this field of activity.
Last year at this time I announced that the department had undertaken an experiment with a three-wheeled vehicle called a mail-mobile for door to door mail delivery service in suburban areas. The original experiment was undertaken in British Columbia with a United States machine, and proved so successful that the original five machines have been augmented by a further 50 vehicles, including 15 which have been developed by a Canadian manufacturer. These are now undergoing extensive testing in other parts of the country.
We are now about to try yet another mobile piece of equipment; letter carrier delivery carts, to which I referred yesterday in answer
Supply-Post Office
to a question in the house. The best comparison I can offer for these are the twowheeled carts which one sees so often on golf courses to carry the golf bag of players. There is some considerable doubt that these are going to work out, and we can foresee a number of problems in their use. None the less, they deserve a trial in accord with our present policy-and I think I can almost say our new policy under this administration-of constantly testing new ideas and equipment which appear to have merit.
Among the most commented on pieces of equipment we have introduced this year are the new plastic letter boxes being installed, one or two to a city, in most of the major centres across Canada. Their design is most attractive and has been widely commended by a number of people, including even Mr. Alan Jarvis in a press article on the subject. The plastic material, with the colour impregnated, requires little of the upkeep or repainting which is now a costly factor in connection with existing metal boxes. While it is still too early to completely assess their potential, the probability is they will be most successful, and if this is the case we will introduce them widely across Canada as the older boxes are retired.
We have made many improvements during the past year in our service to the public. For example, we have developed a new procedure for the handling of parcels which we are unable to deliver because the patron is not at home when we make the first call. Previously these had been returned to the local post office, and the only course of action open to the patron was to call for them. While this course of action is still open to patrons, they have the option now of having the item delivered a second time at a prearranged time for a fee of 25 cents. Our trial of this service has been so enthusiastically received that we will soon establish the system on a regular basis throughout Canada.
Another of the several adjustments we have made to improve service to the public concerns the delivery to individual residents of apartment buildings of mail matter requiring direct personal contract. In the past, in many such cases the letter carrier was only permitted to leave a card in the mail box notifying the patron that such items could be picked up at the post office. Now these items, including such things as registered mail, short paid articles, C.O.D. packages and items too large to fit in apartment mail boxes, are delivered by the letter carrier to individual residents of apartment buildings in the same manner as for individual houses.
One way in which we control the quality of our service is through a very careful
Supply-Post Office
analysis of all the complaints we receive. It is a measure of our constant improvement that despite a steady increase in mail volume -and hon. members will recall that I said it had increased by 100 million pieces this year-the number of inquiries or complaints dropped by more than 10,000 in each of the past two years, so that while in 1957-58 we had 112 inquiries or complaints for every million pieces handled, this dropped to 106 in 1958-59 and to 101 in the past year.
We are still trying to improve, but it is getting harder when one realizes that we have already reached the point where only one one hundredth of one per cent of mail handled resulted in an inquiry or complaint, and that in many of these cases investigation revealed the complaint to be unfounded.
I am sure that some ox my friends in this house will wish to ask me about robberies of post office vehicles and buildings, and to inquire as to what steps are being taken to safeguard the mails from depredations of this type. I would like to state that during the last two years or more we have built up a greatly increased security-mindedness on the part of postal employees at all levels. With the assistance of the Department of Public Works we have improved the security of our buildings and added to our protective equipment.
For comparative and statistical purposes within the department we list as losses by burglary the items on which we can place an accurate or approximately accurate monetary value, including cash, stamps, denominative money orders, and so on. The results of our efforts to reduce the loss attributable to burglaries are illustrated by the fact that we have reduced the net average loss per burglary from $1,262 in 1958-59 to $983 in the last fiscal year, and the total figure has dropped from $448,248 to $385,663.
However, it is important to realize that these loss figures for statistical purposes are actually greatly in excess of the loss to either the post office or the public treasury, because only the cash stolen is a complete loss. In many cases the postage stamps stolen cannot be disposed of by the thieves and are destroyed. In the case of money orders stolen, the picture is clear because they can be identified when they pass through the post office. In the last fiscal year, for example, denominative money orders having a potential value of $139,305 were stolen and included in the loss figures; on the other hand, the thieves succeeded in cashing only 20 of these at post offices and the total value thereof was only $201. In other words, a reported loss of $139,000 was in fact only a loss of $200.

More stringent regulations regarding the retention of cash in post offices have made possible the reduction of actual cash losses from an average of $84 per burglary in 195859 to an average of $70 in the last fiscal year.
Special attention has also been given to our methods of handling the dispatch of mail to ensure its protection in transit. In recent years, as you are aware, the railways have eliminated many of their trains and the post office has been forced more and more to resort to highway transport to deliver the mails swiftly and efficiently. Obviously the security problems of handling mail by truck are more complex than in hauling it by train. We have, however, recently developed new security measures for this purpose in co-operation with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the provincial police forces and the police staffs of the municipalities concerned. Unfortunately, to give details of these would merely provide information eagerly sought by prospective robbers and burglars, and I hope the committee and particularly the hon. member for St. Denis will not press me for such information. We cannot avoid every possibility of theft or of robbery on the highway, but in comparison with the general picture in this field throughout Canada our record is a favourable one, and reflects the results of the substantial efforts we are making.
Last year at this time I discussed developments in the electronic-mechanical mail sorta-tion system presently being developed by the Canada post office and destined for operational testing in the Montreal post office later this year. This is now undergoing the final stages of modification at the plant of Canadair Limited.
While we have great hopes and expectations for this particular equipment, which has been under development by the Canadian post office for a number of years, we can have no certainty as to the results until it has undergone extensive trials in actual postal operation. I feel, however, that the advances we have made in this direction during the past 15 months, since placing the development contract with Canadair, have been substantially greater than would have been the case had we attempted to undertake this stage of the work within the Post Office Department itself as was contemplated by the previous administration.
To operate the machine during its test period we are going to need a staff of specially trained people, and we are now well advanced on the training of supervisors and operators in this field. Also under construction for us at the present time in the United Kingdom is a unit of equipment designed to

mechanize the first operations performed on mail when it reaches a post office. These include the separation of letters and parcels, the facing up so the addresses are all in the same relative position and the stamps in the same place, the cancelling of the stamps and the initial division of the mail into that for local delivery and that to be forwarded to other points. The new equipment will be installed in the Winnipeg post office, probably in the first half of 1961, for evaluation under Canadian conditions, and it will represent a major step forward in the modernization of our operations, since previously the only one of the several operations it undertakes which was done by machinery was the actual cancellation of the stamps themselves.
We are also testing in Toronto at the present time a new mail-flow system by which, when the time arrives for mail which has been sorted to be removed from the sorting cases and dispatched, an announcement is made over a loudspeaker system and the sorter merely removes the mail and puts it on a moving belt underneath his table. Previously a considerable amount of pedestrian traffic was required since the mail was picked up individually from each case.
Our studies are continuing on possible methods of applying electronic data processing to the issue of postal money orders at post office wickets, and to the audit of these money orders at headquarters. Since we handle over 50 million money orders a year this is a field of considerable interest to us.
I must emphasize again, as I do each year when discussing these developments, that the programs on which we are working are not designed, and will not be allowed, to throw existing full-time postal employees out of work. However, they will bring about more efficient handling of our ever increasing mail volume without corresponding increases in staff.
About two years ago, after studying the whole question of improving post office operation through mechanization, I told the house that I felt it would take about five years to develop, install and test under operating conditions the necessary equipment and another five years following that to extend its operation generally throughout the postal service to all points where it could be effectively used. I see no reason to depart from this timetable which takes into account, on the one hand, the need for these measures and, on the other, the necessity that they be introduced at a rate which will enable the department to adjust to the changes without dislocation of staff or hardship to anyone.
During the past year probably no aspect of the postal service received more widespread publicity than our householder mail
Supply-Post Office
service, the system under which an advertiser may mail printed matter to all the householders in a given area without being required to have it individually addressed or stamped. The operation of this system has posed an increasing problem for some time, and the department has received many requests from various sources to make adjustments in it. Not the least of these pressures was from within the postal service itself, where both high-ranking officers and letter carriers complained that the mass of unaddressed mail matter was causing difficulties in maintaining a proper mail service. Another source of complaint on this subject was mail patrons themselves, many of whom resent such unsolicited matter in their mail.
As a result of these and other approaches the department carried out a full study of the problem from all possible angles. The resulting changes, first announced a few weeks ago, go into effect June 1. They will restrict the size of householder mail items, forbid irregular shapes and penalize heavy, bulky items. Generally speaking the new regulations have met with widespread approval, while at the same time Canada's advertising associations have accepted them without criticism or complaint.
During the year the post office produced five commemorative stamps. The subjects covered were the NATO anniversary, the Associated Country Women of the World, the royal visit, the St. Lawrence seaway and the plains of Abraham. In connection with the last, I should like to note that this stamp was recently named, by a well known philatelic journal published in the United Kingdom, as the best commonwealth stamp of the year, and one of the ten best stamps of the year produced by any nation.
Another very popular innovation of the past year has been the introduction of special cards, each bearing a number of our commemorative postage stamps to a total value of 50 cents, with a short outline of the reason for the stamp and the importance of the subject to Canada on the back of the card. These have been phenomenally attractive to tourists.
I have frequently expressed the view that commemorative stamps are, in effect, small billboards of Canada. To make sure that these billboards receive the widest possible distribution and attention, we have recently adopted the practice of sending first day covers of new commemorative stamps to prominent people and newspaper editors in many lands. I believe the number is between 50 and 60. We enclose a brief explanation of the event the stamp commemorates and other information about the background of
Supply-Post Office
the particular issue. We have also adopted the practice of distributing information folders on each new stamp to teachers responsible for selected age groups in Canada's public schools. This we are doing through the active co-operation of all ten provincial departments of education, and first results indicate that the program has been both effective and appreciated.
We are also going to have in our new postal headquarters building, when it is opened next year, a postal history museum, and planning is now under way for this purpose. This will enable us to take out from our vaults and display to the public a great deal of material of interest to stamp collectors as well as exhibits and displays of material and equipment of wide general interest.
Another area in which we are attempting to streamline operations is in our office services. Here we have engaged in an extensive program of personnel training, and have introduced a uniform file control procedure throughout the department. Considerable savings also accrued to the department through the application of the incentive pay plan for typists and stenographers. Until recently, while the Post Office Department engaged in a very extensive program of training courses for its personnel, each course was directly related in a detailed way to some phase of postal activity. Such courses are very necessary and very valuable, but they have one shortcoming; while they increase technical proficiency they do comparatively little to develop the broad managerial skill of those participating.
As we progress in our development of post office operations there is a constantly increasing number of positions opening in our service where these same management skills are required, areas where new problems are concerned involving an intermixture of personnel relations, operating techniques and service to the public. To meet this challenge I asked that a management development course for some of our fairly senior personnel be undertaken and the first two groups, one in Ottawa and the other in Calgary, recently completed their work. At the moment it is impossible to pin down statistically the results of such training efforts, but there is every indication that the courses are of substantial benefit and are broadening and increasing the management ability of those who participate.
In any organization as large as the Post Office Department the relations between management and staff are of critical importance. We do not expect the employee

associations to see eye to eye with management on every matter, but I believe firmly that the more extended the discussions between the two groups, the more understanding and harmony there will be.
When I became Postmaster General such interchange of ideas was at a minimum. Today this has been substantially changed and there are regular full, free and frank discussions between management and the representatives of our staff associations on a wide variety of problems. We are not surrendering our right to make final decisions, and I have no intention of doing so; but now, unlike the past, before major decisions are made the views and observations of postal workers are taken into consideration, and this is a great help in arriving at the most satisfactory course for everybody concerned.
As a result of this and other changes I feel that staff relations within the department have improved substantially over the past three years, and one measure of this fact is the rate of turnover. Separations from the postal service continue at a level substantially below that of the civil service as a whole, and the rate for this year, in all categories, was 8 per cent.
During my term as Postmaster General I have had ample opportunity to study these men and women at their work. I have made a practice of dropping in unexpectedly and at odd hours of the day and night. I have been in offices at midnight; I have been in offices at 6 a.m., and I have been in offices at just about every interval between those two times. I never failed to be impressed with the employees' cheerfulness, their capability and their determination to do their work swiftly and well. I have found in the postal service a quality of devotion and integrity that is, perhaps, unusual in this day of materialism and mass production.
From the point of view of management, our changes and improvements in the past year add up to the most sweeping adjustment and development the Post Office Department has undergone since confederation. I have reviewed the reports of postmasters general for a number of years before 1957; none bristles as does the one I have just given with example after example of change, of adjustment, of improvement and of progress and, none the less, I have dealt with only some of our activities over the past year.
But mechanical equipment and advanced policies are not now, nor ever will be, the key to the operation of an efficient and successful postal service. The key to success is people, the 50,000 people who work at headquarters and in Canada's 11,500 post

offices; who drive courier trucks, walk letter carrier routes, ride our mail cars, operate our clerical services and, in more senior posts, direct postal activities generally. These are the men and the women who make Canada's postal service second to none in a field where service is a tradition and where that same tradition is very much alive.
(Translation):
Mr. Chairman, I think it is fitting that we express our satisfaction for the safe return of the Postmaster General (Mr. Hamilton) from his recent trip to France; this has given us an opportunity to hear the enlightening speech he has just delivered. However, we have no congratulations to offer him for his success in Paris. I am sure he was not piloting the plane, because he would not have come back on his own power. Apparently, he is unlucky, and every time he attempts some new venture, it seems doomed to failure.
His failure in France has much in common with his failure in his own department. How can you expect the Postmaster General to convince various countries to vote for Canada as the site of the world's fair, when surely they are aware that we have a money-losing and strangely run Post Office Department, where it is considered good business and sound economics and finance to report a deficit. Fortunately, he had a second group with him in France to share his failure. I understand he had with him the Associate Minister of National Defence (Mr. Sevigny), who played second fiddle, because even though French is the language spoken in France, the Postmaster General unfortunately did not want or did not see fit to let him play first fiddle. And that is why we heard no solo performance from the Associate Minister of National Defence. We listened very closely-
(Text):
I may observe that the minister has just made what I would call a jet statement, and has tried to prove that there is no disharmony in the Post Office Department. I note that he has said that everything that is good in the department is the responsibility of the head of the department. With respect to the routine orders, the regulations, and if there are so many men in the postal service in a certain area, because the population has increased, it has been found that this improvement is required. So far as government policy is concerned, the Postmaster General has
Supply-Post Office
said nothing about that. All he can be proud of and all he has told us about were the plastic boxes he has installed all over Canada. All he can be proud of is the experiments with mailmobiles. If I remember correctly, this experiment has been going on for two or three years. It is about time for the Postmaster General to decide whether we are going to have this kind of transportation in the postal service. It is time we knew whether we are to have the three-wheel scooter or the four-wheel scooter.
The Postmaster General thinks they have made a great advance in the postal service with these mailmobiles, but he did not say a word about their cost. He did not say a word about the origin of those scooters. He did not tell the committee whether those scooters could be bought in Canada in order to give work to our own citizens. As far as I can recall, those scooters are imported from the United States. I think the four-wheel scooter is imported from Italy or from some other foreign country, and some parts are brought here.
Anyway, all we can say is that we have no details about the cost of everything new brought out by the Postmaster General. We know nothing about the improvement of the electronic machines; we do not know how many kinds there are. We do not know the cost of each and every one of them. We are still, as some important persons said in another field-
(Translation) :
We are groping in the fog towards the unknown. I must conclude, from the very start of his remarks, that we have in Canada now, the most expensive Postmaster General since confederation and the Post Office Department with the steadiest record for operating in the red. If the minister thinks that this is the only right way to manage a department, I do not know what economy is, or what it is like to live according to one's means. It is all very well to make improvements in the Post Office Department provided one can afford to do so and so long as it does not prejudice this country's economy. If you look at those estimates and at what has been done in the past, you will see that the estimates of $132 million passed in 1957 under Liberal rule are now increased to $172 million which means a difference of more than $40 million.
May I also draw the chairman's attention to the fact that in 1959 returns were $10 million higher than in 1957.

Supply-Post Office
Consequently, I think that the Postmaster General might at least have told us why he is unable to balance his department's budget, whereas in 1957, though we did not have the same returns, we nevertheless found a way to get a $5 million and even $10 million surplus. I wonder what would happen if all government departments wound up with deficits. I do not think he was of any help to the Minister of Finance in budgeting for $13 million surplus. It is not in the post office estimates that he made any savings because those estimates are, I believe, increased by $5.5 million or so. Now that is quite different from what happened in the past and I do not think that the minister is responsible for the progress or improvements he referred to. I think these were routin