Mr. Speaker, today our Frenchspeaking fellow Canadians throughout Canada are rejoicing for they are celebrating St. John the Baptist day, in honour of their patron saint.
Even if members of this house do not all share in the same traditions, I am sure, however, that all of them will join me in tendering to our French-speaking colleagues and to all French Canadians of this country our best wishes on this festive occasion.
The elements of the Canadian nationality are many and not easily definable. It is generally recognized, however, that one of the features of our nationality is the free association, over a period of two centuries, of two cultures, two traditions, for the achievement of one great Canada.
It is fitting that each year our Frenchspeaking fellow citizens relive the finest pages of their history, which is the history of all Canada, since their gallant forebears extended their activity to the furthermost reaches of our country.


Mr. Speaker, I and the members of our party wish to subscribe to the words spoken by the Prime Minister (Mr. Diefenbaker).
As the Prime Minister has just said, on this patron saint's day of French Canadians, though we are of different racial origins, we have often had occasion to pay tribute to our French-speaking fellow Canadians for their great contribution to the development, unity, vigour and wisdom of this country.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to repeat the statement made a few months ago by the distinguished chancellor of the University of Toronto:
Our country has been enriched by both our ancestral cultures, and each ethnic group should retain its way of life and heritage, while respecting those of the other. May our patriotism be haunted by the dream of unity of our two great
races. However, let us pray God that it be unity in diversity, and that each group remain true to its past.
(Text):
Mr. Speaker, may I also remind the house that this is an important day for Newfoundland. It is, if I may call that, their national day, Discovery day. So may I also pay my tribute to the contribution of courage and determination that the people of Newfoundland have made to the development not only of their own historic nation but to the confederation of which they are now part. (Translation):


Mr. Speaker, it is fitting to celebrate the French fact in Canada. I am happy to associate myself with the Prime Minister (Mr. Diefenbaker) and with the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson), on St. John the Baptist day, in congratulating those of my fellow citizens who speak French much better than I do.
(Text):
I also wish to associate this group with the words of the Leader of the Opposition in acknowledging the great contribution which the province of Newfoundland is making to the Canadian nation, and to wish our fellow citizens in that province the very best in the years to come.


As the member for St. John's West I should like to thank both the Leader of the Opposition and the hon. member for Assiniboia for the kind remarks they have made with regard to Newfoundland this day. This is the 463rd anniversary of the discovery of Newfoundland by John Cabot. It is true that the first part of Newfoundland which he saw in the early morning was Bonavista-Twil-lingate-


Bonavista.


-when he said, "Oh, happy sight". But on the same day he went into the beautiful landlocked harbour of St. John's, which therefore received its name from the feast day on which it was discovered. The people of Quebec are today celebrating the feast of St. John the Baptist. Newfoundland is expanding and its population is growing; large groups of people from Newfoundland now live in Montreal and Toronto. If French-Canadians and Newfoundlanders could get together, perhaps we could make this a national feast day for Canada.

Public Service


Would the hon. member permit a question? Does he not think that two days ago the Newfoundlanders and the Quebeckers did get together?


Oh, oh.


Before turning to another subject, may I say I am sure that when the Leader of the Opposition, the hon. member for Assiniboia and myself spoke French a minute ago, there was not an English speaking member of the house who did not understand, even without the benefit of the translation system.


Mr. Speaker, I have an announcement to make, of the resignation of Mr. Wilbur R. Jackett, Q.C. as deputy minister of justice effective as of July 1. In announcing the resignation of Mr. Jackett I should like to express on behalf of the government our great appreciation for the service he has rendered since he first joined the department in 1939. Since May 1, 1957 he has been an outstanding deputy minister of that department.
At the same time I wish to announce the appointment as deputy minister of justice, effective July 1, of Mr. Elmer A. Driedger, Q.C. who has been assistant deputy minister. Mr. Driedger was born in Saskatchewan, as was Mr. Jackett, and following admission to the bar in that province he came to Ottawa in June, 1940, as law librarian of the Supreme Court of Canada. In December 1941 he was transferred to the legal branch of the Department of Justice as junior advisory counsel. Subsequently, on April 1, 1945 he became senior advisory counsel, and assistant deputy minister on July 1, 1954.
I do not think I need say anything more regarding Mr. Driedger, other than that he has devoted most of his time to the preparation of the government's legislative program and has taken a leading part in the advisory functions of the Department of Justice. He is recognized as an outstanding member of the bar and is one who I know will adorn the position to which he has been appointed.
There are two other appointments to be made and announced shortly. They are associate deputy ministers of justice, each having the rank and status of a deputy head of the department. One of these will be French speaking and the other English speaking.
[Mr. Browne (St. John's Westj.l


Mr. Speaker, we on this side of the house would like to associate ourselves with the words of appreciation the Prime Minister has just uttered in connection with the deputy minister of justice who is retiring. Mr. Jackett has served his country in this position for many years now effectively and with devotion. He will be greatly missed in the public service. Our sense of loss, however, is minimized to some extent by the Prime Minster's announcement that Mr. Jackett will be succeeded by Mr. Driedger, who has been long in the department, has served it well and I am sure will be a very adequate deputy minister in every respect.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to table two copies of a report by the national energy board on two applications for licences to export gas to the United States. Both these applications involve small volumes of gas and both, in effect, represent renewals or extensions of existing export licences.
The Canadian-Montana Pipe Line Company has been exporting gas from Alberta to the state of Montana since 1952. The existing licence expires September 1, 1960. The new licence applied for would terminate on May 14, 1974, the same date on which its Alberta permit and the federal power commission permit to the Montana Power Company to import gas into the United States expire.
The national energy board found that the total quantity of gas proposed to be exported exceeded the established reserves for the fields from which the gas would be removed, and accordingly reduced the total quantity of gas which the applicant might export over the period of the new licence from some 268 billion cubic feet to 190 billion cubic feet.
The second application, that of Gordon Plotke, is for a five year licence, and the maximum annual volume of gas to be exported is only 10 million cubic feet. This is a local matter involving the gas from one well only, and gas which is not considered saleable other than in this particular export.
In its report the board indicates that it is prepared to issue export licences to the Canadian-Montana Pipe Line Company and to Gordon M. Plotke. The government concurs with the board's findings on these applications, and accordingly will authorize the issue of the licences on the terms set forth in the report.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce that the agricultural stabilization board has been authorized to continue to support the price of soya beans produced in Ontario for the year 1960 at $2 per bushel for Canada No. 2 grade or better, which is the same support price as last year. The prescribed price for 1960 is 91 per cent of the 10 year average as compared with 87 per cent for 1959. The final figures for the 1959 crop are not yet available, but it is estimated that the deficiency payments which will be made to the producers will total approximately $1 million.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the minister for making this announcement. I have only one comment to make, and that is that the price support announced for this year is the same as for last year, and not as high as it was in the year immediately following the last general election. The support price announced today is one that will not fully satisfy the requests made of the government by the soya bean growers.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister a question arising out of the suggestion made to the Minister of Finance when consideration was being given to the resolution preceding the introduction of amendments to the Civil Service Act. My question is whether the Prime Minister has now been able to give consideration to this suggestion and whether he does not agree that it would be wise, in view of the time element, to postpone further consideration of this matter until next session, when in the early days of the session it can be submitted to a committee where evidence can be taken?


Mr. Speaker, in so far as the time element is concerned, I do not think it really enters into the equation at all. I think there would be sufficient time between now and the end of the session to give full consideration to this very important piece of legislation. However, suggestions have been made both by civil service organizations and by individuals that because of the fact that some 40 years have passed since the Civil
Inquiries of the Ministry Service Act came into effect, and these amendments are made consequent on the experience of that lengthy period of time, the very fullest consideration should be given to the various sections of this rather lengthy bill.
In the circumstances, if it meets with the aDproval of the house, I can see no objection whatever to acceding to the suggestion made, namely that the bill remain on the order paper. It can be introduced again at the next session, and a committee set up at that time for the purpose of going thoroughly into this question, to the end that when this act is brought up to date it will be generally acceptable to all and in accordance with the traditions of the civil service so that the civil service of Canada may continue to occupy the pre-eminent position that it now occupies among civil service organizations throughout the world.


Mr. Speaker, I might just say a word. I think this is a wise course to follow with this very voluminous bill. Civil service associations themselves are desirous of making representations. We think if it were laid over until next session the final legislation would likely be much better from the standpoint of the civil servants of the country than if it were rushed through during the dying days of this session.


For the sake of clarity, Mr. Speaker, there is something I should like to find out. I am not permitted, of course, to direct a question to the Leader of the Opposition.


You will before long.


I hope the day never comes when I have to cross-examine my hon. friend.
The question I wanted to have cleared up was simply this. The hon. member for Assiniboia (Mr. Argue) said that he would be agreeable to the course suggested, namely that the civil service bill be left on the order paper and be brought forward again at the next session. I said that if the house was in agreement, that course would be followed. Possibly the Leader of the Opposition will let the house know what his attitude is.


Mr. Speaker, I am very happy to answer the question asked by the hon. member for Prince Albert. The course which he suggested with regard to this bill, for reasons among others with which he himself has put forward, is quite agreeable to us on this side.

Inquiries of the Ministry AGRICULTURE


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Agriculture. Can the Prime Minister or the Minister of Agriculture inform the house whether the date has now been set for a meeting between the government and the liaison committee of the western farm organizations to discuss deficiency payments, or the government's alternative to that program?


No, Mr. Speaker, the date has not yet been set.


Can the minister say whether a date will be set before the end of the session?


Well, I do not think I have anything further to add at the present time. The date has not yet been set, and I am not in a position to say what date will be set.


Does the minister still take the view that before he will arrange to see this delegation the farmers of western Canada must place an alternative proposal in writing before the government?


I am not sure that I understand exactly what the hon. member means by this question.


My question was, before setting a date to meet this delegation does the government still take the position that the farmers of western Canada must place before the government in writing an alternative proposal, as the Minister of Agriculture suggested when his estimates were under discussion in this house?


Mr. Speaker, this has been one of the causes of delay. We asked the western farm organizations to make a definite proposal in writing, but instead they sent a brief which, as I indicated before, reiterated three of the proposals they had made when they attended here in numbers somewhat over a year ago. They also made some reference to acreage payments. Subsequent to that time we have had representations from some of the organizations who are members of the liaison committee indicating that they would like to discuss acreage payments.


What was the government's reply to that request?


Order.


Mr. Speaker, can the Minister of Agriculture tell the house what reply he gave to those farm organizations which requested a meeting on the basis of the proposition that acreage payments should be paid?


Mr. Speaker, I told those people that we would certainly consider that matter very seriously, and that we would consider it even more seriously if all these ten western farm organizations made the same request.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Can the minister inform the house whether it has now been decided to change the Royal Canadian Mounted Police marriage regulations?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. The commissioner has announced this morning that there has been a change in the long-standing marriage regulations. Under the new regulations a member of the force may be permitted to marry if he is at least 21 years of age and has served in the force in a satisfactory manner for two years. Formerly the regulations required that a member serve satisfactorily for five years before marriage, with one or two exceptions.
The original intent of the rather stringent regulations was to ensure maximum mobility in the service by having at all times a 50 per cent strength of single men. This arrangement is no longer considered necessary and, in fact, the married strength of the force now exceeds this figure. The commissioner is of the opinion that the change in regulations will be welcomed by many young men already in the force, and will also remove an obstacle to recruiting those young men otherwise suitable who regarded the marriage regulations with disfavour. I concur in that opinion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Finance whether, in view of the constitutional jurisdiction of this parliament over navigation and shipping, he does not think it would be reasonable for the

federal government to assume the full cost of the investigation into the Chignecto canal.


My colleague the Minister of
Public Works made an announcement on this subject the other day which I believe has met with the widest satisfaction, not only in the important area of Canada that is principally concerned but in this house as well.


Does the minister not think there would be even wider satisfaction if the taxpayers of New Brunswick were relieved of this charge, which is really a federal responsibility.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member's question has some interesting timing features to it.


Answer the question.


It accords well with the proper interest shown now after 22 years of neglect of this subject under the former regime.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. Has the minister heard of the recent statement of the premier of British Columbia to the effect that he is now prepared to turn over the magnificent alpine area of Garibaldi park to the federal government as a national park, upon condition that the development program will commit the federal government to have the park in shape and condition to service the requirements of the Olympic games in 1968?


No,
Mr. Speaker, I have not seen that report. I would imagine that if the premier of British Columbia is serious about the matter he will be writing me, because the federal government have already written to the province of British Columbia saying that we would consider taking over this area as a national park if it is granted to us on the usual conditions.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, can the Minister of Public Works
79951-0-338
Inquiries of the Ministry report on the progress being made with respect to the urgent problem of slum clearance on the south side of Burrard inlet in Vancouver?


Mr. Speaker, in reply to the hon. member may I say that an order in council was passed yesterday relating to a federal contribution of one-half of the cost of acquiring and clearing three redevelopment sites in the blighted area in the east end of downtown Vancouver, and the redevelopment area on the south side of False creek. The total estimated cost of acquisition and clearance is $5,243,417, and the gross federal contribution is therefore estimated to be approximately $2,621,709.
The area when acquired and cleared will be sold or leased for residential and industrial development. It is proposed to construct two federal-provincial subsidized rental housing projects consisting of approximately 389 units on land thus located. These housing units will be used to rehouse displaced persons from the two areas and other families of low income. The estimated cost of the rental housing project is approximately $4 million, of which the federal government's share is 75 per cent or $3 million.


On the orders of the day:
May I
ask a supplementary question. Can the minister inform the house what progress is being made with the land development project at St. John's?
Hon. D. J. Walker (Minister of Public
Works): We are getting along nicely with the investigation, and in due course a report will be made to my hon. friend or to the house.


In how many years?


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. I apologize for not having sent him notice of it, but I am sure he has immediate knowledge of this matter. Can the minister indicate whether the cabinet is considering taking action under section 29 of the Combines Investigation Act to lower or eliminate the tariffs on fine papers in this country?
5360	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I have noticed some comments in the press this morning on this general subject. One of them at least attributed certain information or statements to "informed sources". I have been considering the matter since, accordingly, and have come to the conclusion after consultation also that, as in the case of an inquiry under the Combines Investigation Act, it is not considered appropriate to confirm or to deny reports on inquiries in specific cases. Therefore in this case it will not be appropriate to confirm or to deny the report of consideration of section 29 under the Combines Investigation Act with respect to tariffs.
The reason for that rule is that it is not considered proper to make such statements which might prejudice the public mind against individuals. The policy therefore has been followed of never confirming or denying such reports. I therefore have no comment to make on the report.


I wish to ask a supplementary question of the Minister of Justice. Is it a fact that some time ago he notified a number of these companies to show cause why the government should not take the action that has been suggested under section 29 of the Combines Investigation Act?


I think the former answer I gave covers the situation here, namely that it would not be appropriate to comment on matters of this kind until some conclusion has been reached.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Postmaster General. Is the minister in a position to make a report on the investigation he must have ordered following the fire which was set to a mail box situated close to the committee room of Mr. Rene Levesque, the first Rene Levesque on the voting ballot, then an official Liberal candidate and now a new member of the new legislature in Quebec?


Beyond the fact that we put out the fire, Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to say at this point.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. May I


ask whether the hon. lady's private secretary is on loan to the leader of the opposition in the house of assembly in Newfoundland?


I believe the person to whom my hon. friend refers is on a visit to Newfoundland, and that he is leaving me on July 1.


Can the hon. lady say whether he is still receiving a salary from the treasury of Canada?


I believe he is on his
holidays at the present time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, will the Minister of Public Works be good enough to tell the house why he paddles a red painted canoe?


Would orange be more suitable to the hon. member; or would he settle if I just painted it blue?


Why not try both?


I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. While he is out canoeing on the Rideau river I wonder whether he fully realizes that he is up the creek on housing?


Mr. Speaker, I would sooner be going up the creek than be in the flood waters of Nipissing.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister without Portfolio from Newfoundland. Is he aware that the Cape Breton historical society are this afternoon unveiling a bust to the memory of John Cabot in northern Cape Breton, to mark where Cabot first landed on the North American continent?


Mr. Speaker, the first place where he landed on the mainland might have been on Cape Breton. The first place where he really landed was at St. John's.


May I ask the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources whether, in

an effort to restore unity to his own side of the house, he would consider suggesting to the historic sites and monument board that a monument be erected at cape Bonavista which would record the true fact of the discovery of Canada, namely that John Cabot, the first European to see Canada, first saw it at cape Bonavista?


In the wisdom of past years it was decided that the minister should have an historic sites and monument board composed of leading historians across Canada to advise the minister in order to protect him from all sorts of suggestions like the one made by the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate.


Mr. Speaker-


Order. I think we had better bring our explorations up to date and pass to orders of the day.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of Finance a question based on a statement made by Premier Frost yesterday when speaking of the federal-provincial fiscal conference scheduled for July. The premier said:
All I know is that I am going into a big fight down in Ottawa on fiscal matters.
My question is this. Since it takes two to make a fight, will the Minister of Finance comment on this statement?


If Mr. Frost made the statement referred to by the hon. member, Mr. Speaker, I am quite sure that he did not have in mind the thought that he would be entering any kind of contest or fight with the federal government. Therefore I have not the slightest idea whom he may have chosen as his adversary, but perhaps the hon. member for Essex East had better look out.


May I ask a supplementary question. That being the case, is it now a fact that Premier Frost may look forward to receiving the additional $100 million odd which he has been asking from the federal government?


Order. I think the hon. member is trying to anticipate an event which will take place later this month.
79951-0-338J
24, 1960	5361
Supply-Mines and Technical Surveys


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I may be
permitted to ask a question which was frequently asked by the minister when he was over on this side. Could the minister provide us with the agenda for this conference?


Mr. Speaker, whenever the agenda has been agreed upon by all the governments concerned, and whenever they are agreeable that it be made public, there will be no hesitation at all in making it available to the hon. member or to it being brought before the house.


Could I ask a supplementary question. Will the minister include the federal government's proposals to the conference?


If the federal government's proposals were made part of the agenda, Mr. Speaker.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Flynn in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF MINES AND TECHNICAL SURVEYS. Administration services-
Departmental administration-
187. Administration, operation and maintenance, $860,962.


Department of Mines and Technical Surveys, item No. 187. This item will be found on page 40 of the blue book and the details on page 260.


Mr. Chairman, at ten o'clock last night I was discussing the importance of the work of the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys with regard to the exhaustion of our reserves of minerals. The rate of consumption of any mineral resource is subject to many factors. Under any system of free enterprise, mineral deposits are normally exploited only when the margin between costs of production and the price to the consumer will yield a profit to the operator. Obviously, therefore, any improvements in mining, milling or refining techniques that result in lower production costs or an increase in the percentage of the metal recovered will correspondingly increase the total of our commercially available resources. The more efficient we become in the utilization of low grade ores, the more satisfactory our supply position. The same results can also be obtained in the free market when the consumer is willing or able to pay increased prices.
The part that this department should have been playing in technological research is, I think, abundantly clear and has been for a long time. It is essential that this work
5362	HOUSE OF
Supply-Mines and Technical Surveys now go ahead. No less important is the essential work required in the field of conservation. I find it most significant that in the cases of agriculture, forestry, fisheries and certain other fields of resources development, some progress has been made in the direction of conservation. All these are renewable resources. Yet in the case of minerals, which are not renewable, there has been practically no effort, except in time of war, to interfere with the free play of a market that is interested primarily in profits. This is an anomaly that cannot continue forever. So we have several reasons for being concerned about the mineral resource future of Canada.
Well, what should this department be doing now as well as for future generations? Our hopes for the future, in my view, should be directed first toward the discovery of new ore bodies. There is certainly ample scope in Canada for such activities today. The greatest hope for fresh supplies of ore depends upon the discovery of new ore bodies in those areas of Canada yet undeveloped. Here I cannot help but draw the attention of this committee to the vast areas of the north where such activities have a very wide scope.
The second step to be taken in our effort to meet the undoubted future demands which will be placed on our mineral resources and to forestal shortages at home is the improvement of our techniques of extraction and processing. New and more efficient methods of mining are constantly being sought. In addition, we must broaden the field of research in our metallurgical practices. The record of discovery in this field offers good evidence that further research will result in further refinements. In the future, as higher grades of ore are depleted, more attention must be given to the treatment of complex and low grade ore bodies by leaching or other chemical methods. Further study should also be given to the possibility of obtaining minerals from sea water.
Finally, in addition to the search for new ore bodies and the improvement of our processes of extraction and treatment, greater study must be given to the possibilities of conservation and substitution.
Now, Mr. Chairman, how is the department to meet the demands which are being placed upon it now and in the future should the course which I have advocated be implemented? The evidence before the committee on mines, forests and waters last year clearly indicated an extremely complicated general administration of the diversified activities of this department. There are many factors which contribute to this situation; the nature of the operations of the various branches of


the department; the large number of individual projects conducted under mobile and remote conditions; the operation of a fleet of ships and launches; the operation of a large number of fixed and rotary wing charter aircraft; the operation of a fleet of about 225 motor vehicles and railway speeders, tracked vehicles, dog teams, horses and the like; and large scientific laboratories in Ottawa. No wonder, then, that procurement, supply, maintenance and financing are difficult tasks, and it will-it must-get even more difficult as the volume of field operations increase and as they progressively move to more outlying areas of the country. The problem of logistics must become more acute.
The department must be allowed to relieve the scientific and technical staff of the administrative requirements associated with their work, and to the maximum degree possible. An accelerated effort toward this objective should be immediately undertaken by the provision of the necessary staff. It is abundantly clear that the growth of the functional operations of the department over many years has not been matched by a corresponding growth in administrative assistance.
The functional operations of the department are hampered by unduly restrictive policies of financial administration. The policy now requires treasury board approval to be given to a very considerable number of individual financial proposals. The department's job could be made much easier and more efficient by enlarging the authority of the minister to meet these flexible demands. As the department expands its activities generally an increased administrative activity will require staff additions if the department is to attain any degree of efficiency.
The most serious difficulty facing the department in the solution of its problems is the recruiting and retention of capable technical and scientific staff. No organization can maintain a high order of research productivity without a high percentage of creative personnel. An organization such as the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys is only as productive as the quality of its staff. To me it is simply amazing that the staff in the number existing in this department for many years has produced such a quality of work, which has allowed Canada to maintain at least a tenuous position in this field.
The department is recruiting and operating in a professional field where the competition for staff reaches its highest intensity. This competition comes from industry in both Canada and the United States, and more recently from the universities. Even junior staff is now being attracted to the secondary

schools. Competition for staff begins at the recruiting stage, where salary levels are slightly less than those of crown organizations such as the national research council and the defence research board and much less than in industry, through to the more senior and specialist grades, where salaries in the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys are much below those offered elsewhere, often to the extent of between $3,000 and $4,000. This situation hurts the organization now and affects the future operations of the department itself and consequently the future of the mineral industry and the future of Canada.
A proportion of highly capable young men must be recruited to assure the future efficiency of any research organization. There is no substitute for intelligence and ability in a research organization. What possibly presents a more serious situation is staff who have become national or international specialists in research areas, and who are attracted away when they are most productive by offers of salaries which are far beyond what the department can pay.
I understand that the purpose of the department is to encourage the mining industry in every way possible, and in keeping with this policy I do not feel that we should mind losing some of our staff to Canadian industry. In fact I think we would welcome and encourage a healthy interchange of staff with Canadian industry. What really hurts, however, is when we lose highly trained specialists to the United States. A specialist takes 10 to 15 years to reach his maximum usefulness, and this may represent $100,000 in training costs. The loss of these highly trained engineers and scientists presents a serious national problem. A high percentage of our specialists who leave go to the United States. It might be of interest to note here that the Financial Post of May 2, 1959 stated that 1,200 Canadian engineers settled in the United States during 1958.
If the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys is to maintain a staff capable of meeting the national demands, salaries must be raised to a competitive level. This is most important at the senior engineer and scientist level. I understand that in recent years the personnel establishments of the various divisions of the department have been fixed by yearly meetings between treasury board, the civil service commission and the department, and that for the 18 months following this meeting there is little elasticity for changing staff about to meet new demands or altering situations. This presents a most difficult problem, since extraordinary demands, which are being continually presented, follow no
24, 1960	5363
Supply-Mines and Technical Surveys established pattern. The result is a measure of inefficiency and administration confusion. A department such as mines and technical surveys, which must meet unexpected demands, should have more flexibility in the recruitment and use of its staff. The rigid formula now applied is fraught with difficulties, and efficiency suffers.
These steps require to be taken now. They should have been taken many years ago. If we fail to act now, future generations of Canadians will have to bear the consequences of our blindness; and our responsibility for failing, with full knowledge of the facts, to take the necessary measures, will be heavy in their sight.


One of the bright spots in the economy of British Columbia at present is the tremendous increase in interest and investment in metal mining. I was on the coast a few weeks ago and took the opportunity to drop into the British Columbia and Yukon chamber of mines office. While I was there it was obvious that it was a most active place. There were a number of people there from various parts of the United States and other parts of the world, and the manager of the bureau informed me that they had received make grants to such organizations as this, but ever before in their history. I know that to date it is not the policy of the department to make grants to such organizations as this, but I do think such an organization is worthy of a grant because it is doing a splendid job for the mining industry not only in British Columbia but in the Yukon and the Northwest Territories.
Interest in mining in British Columbia is general throughout the province, and is particularly apparent in the coastal region as the result of a recent supreme court decision. Development of new mining operations and increased production from existing operations can be anticipated, particularly with regard to crown-granted claims affected by that decision.
For years there has been a false idea that Vancouver island and the coastal area in general are areas where mineral deposits are small and uneconomic. This, of course, is not so. We have had several major producing mines on the coast. One of them is the mine at Britannia which has come to life again, and which I understand is rapidly expanding its production. The Granduc property near the head of Portland canal shows promise of being a major copper ore body, and there are a number of large ore bodies along the coast.
Shortly after I came down here I was in conversation with an official of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources. I pointed out to him the promising
5364	HOUSE OF
Supply-Mines and Technical Surveys mineral potential of Vancouver island, particularly the northern area, and I referred to the desirability of encouraging the development of this potential under the roads to resources program. He disagreed with my view as to the resources there, and I asked him where he had got his information. He said he had got it from the department of mines. I think it is high time that the department of mines reassessed its estimate of the mineral potential of that area, because I think its assumptions are not based on sound or up to date information.
Just to show how wrong the department was, I am going to list some of the operating mines in the area as well as a number of known ore bodies awaiting development. On the southern end of Vancouver island we have Cowichan Copper, which was brought into production through the tenacity and perseverance of an old prospector and mining man in British Columbia named Ozzie McDonald. Great credit is due to him for bringing this mine into production, because many people had scorned its chance of ever becoming a success. Mount Washington Copper is another ore body which is being developed by the Noranda company, and it also has great possibilities. Further north, near Nimpkish lake, there is an important iron-producing property under development and large shipments are being made at the present time. There is also Quatsino Copper at Port McNeill, which is also concerned with the production of iron ore. There is a well known property near the northern end of the island called Coast Copper in which Consolidated Mining and Smelting holds a substantial interest. I believe they are anticipating a large expenditure there commencing almost immediately.
On the west coast there are innumerable mining properties. Many of the properties may not be very large, but with the network of roads that have been developed by the logging companies these mines could be economic producers and successful operations through the hooking up of these roads. The grouping of these ore deposits would provide a very substantial tonnage. We should benefit from the mistakes of the past and recall the experience in the United States. People did not think roads would be developed in that country. There were mines developed, one producing perhaps 500,000 tons in one area and another producing 500,000 tons in another area. In the old days these were considered uneconomic, but with the development of roads it was possible to take full advantage of such ore deposits. In many instances a very small mileage would be required to hook up existing roads and thus provide a very valuable transportation system.


I do not think the day is too far distant -indeed, I feel it is very close-when we are going to see once again a smelter on the coast particularly for the copper ores. In the Portland canal area a famous mine has come to life again. It is now called the Silbak-Premier; it used to be known as the old Premier mine. A tremendous amount of wealth was taken from this mine, which was later almost abandoned and thought to be worked out. I have an adventuresome brother who went in there last year, took a lease on the property and brought the property to life again. It has proved to be one of the outstanding mining rediscoveries in the country.
There is a great deal of activity in the development of iron ore, all of which is shipped to Japan. Ore shipments amount to approximately 1,000 tons a day from such mines as Texada Iron Mines, Silver Standard and others. Iron ore shipments are going from the west coast of the island, and substantial shipments will be going from the Queen Charlotte islands. By the end of this year the coastal area will be producing about
5,000	tons of iron ore per day. This, of course, is being exported to Japan. As well, there will be substantial shipments of copper and copper-nickel concentrates from coastal and interior mines.
While I can understand the British Columbia government's desire to conserve iron ore for ultimate processing in a long hoped-for steel mill, I think they have been seriously misguided in their efforts to promote the establishment of such a mill. They have discouraged the discovery and development of iron ore property. They now reserve for themselves in the coastal area 50 per cent of the iron content of any ore body, which pretty well eliminates any interest in prospecting in that area. The claims being developed and the properties being worked are largely the old crown grant claims. The difficulty to date in effecting the establishment of a steel mill on the coast has been the insufficient tonnage of known iron ore reserves.
I maintain that the only way they are going to increase these reserves is by giving more incentive to the prospecting and development of iron ore properties. I believe I can truthfully say that there is a much greater known reserve of iron ore on the coast of British Columbia than there was before a ton of it was shipped to Japan; because as these properties are developed-and most of them have been known for many years-they have found substantially greater ore reserves than the mining engineers and geologists anticipated. Mining legislation and taxation that discourages the prospecting for and proving

up of iron ore deposits will delay indefinitely the possibility of discovering the necessary tonnage. No one is going to waste time and money prospecting for new deposits of any minerals on the coast when the provincial government reserves to itself 50 per cent of the iron content of all ore.
My belief, and I think it is sound, is that investors in the highly speculative mining industry are entitled to every possible consideration in regard to taxation, depreciation allowances and government technical services. I know there exists in the minds of some a great fear that someone might make a little money out of a mine and not pay what they consider to be sufficient taxation. I would rather see an over-all development of mining even if we had to permit undue tax benefits to very large and successful operations, because if we are going to tax them the tax

ation seems to extend down to the little fellow and discourages the whole mining industry. It is my conviction that if neither government got a cent in direct taxation the employment in an active, healthy mining industry would pay dividends that would benefit the whole country.
In a large section of Vancouver island there is a situation that is a serious discouragement to the discovery and development of mines. About 1885 the provincial government of the day, in order to promote the construction of what is known as the E. & N. railway from Victoria to Courtenay on Vancouver island, made a grant including the lands, forests and minerals of one of the richest areas of the island. This grant went northward to the 50th parallel near Campbell River, and took in a strip approximately 20 miles wide extending from the south tip of the island.
At the time the grant was made my grandfather, who had then been settled in Comox valley for approximately 25 years, wrote a letter to his cousin in England stating as follows:
A railroad is being built between Victoria and Nanaimo-
At that time the terminus was intended to be Nanaimo. I continue:
-the company getting a strip of land about 20 miles back from the coast up as far as the Euclatawville.
For the information of hon. members who are not familiar with that part of the country the old Indian name applied to Seymour narrows was Euclatawville. I continue:
Did anyone ever hear of a more scandalous bargain? The M.P.P.'s should be strung up. Victoria and the neighbourhood is all those potheads care for.
Supply-Mines and Technical Surveys
I am sure there are many throughout the area who still feel the same about this as my grandfather did in those long-ago days. This grant ultimately passed into the hands of the Canadian Pacific Railway, which still holds it, and their policies of administration are a serious handicap to mining development. They have no set royalty on mineral discoveries and deal with each deposit on a different basis. They not only want all that the traffic will bear in royalty but considerably more, and demand royalty on the gross- not on the net-returns to the investing mining company. Consequently companies are loath to make investments in an area where they run the risk of not only losing their own investment but of paying an exorbitant royalty to the Canadian Pacific Railway on the gross values produced.
On this score I do not think the officials of the Canadian Pacific Railway are aware of the effect their policy is having in that area, because it would be to their own advantage in many other ways to have a healthy mining development in the E. & N. railway belt. I know myself of many properties that nobody will bother to stake, nobody will bother to spend any money on, simply because of the present policy of the Canadian Pacific Railway. I hope the minister will take this matter up immediately with the president of the Canadian Pacific Railway and endeavour to relieve this area of mineral development from the strangling policies of the company.
This so-called E. & N. belt is a perfect example of the dangers of giving large grants of resources to individual companies without any stipulation for their development. I hope the experience of 75 years will prove a useful lesson to all provincial governments, and to the federal government as well.


There are three points that I should like to put briefly before the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. In the first place, I should like to pay tribute to the splendid work which the hydrographic survey branch of his department has done in charting the coastal waters of my province.
As was pointed out earlier today, Newfoundland was discovered 463 years ago, and up to a year ago there was still part of our coastal waters not completely charted. The first charting of our waters was carried out by the British admiralty under the direction of the famous Captain Cook. With the few facilities that he had at his disposal at that time it is amazing how accurate his calculations were, but still it is essential that this work be pushed ahead, and we are grateful for the way in which the minister and this branch of his department are doing that job.
5366	HOUSE OF
Supply-Mines and Technical Surveys
Two years ago, I think, there was some question as to who was in command of the survey ships when they were actually doing the survey work. There was some question whether the captain had actual command or whether the hydrographer had full command. I hope the minister will be able to tell us that this question has now been fully clarified so that no further confusion on this point can take place in the future.
The second point is one that I brought to the minister last year, and I am not going to repeat what I said then but simply draw to his attention the fact that as far as I have been able to find out nothing has been done with respect to the prevailing rate system of pay. I know the minister does not have full control over this, that it ties in with the Minister of Labour, and that there are other departments such as the Department of Transport, the Department of Fisheries and also the Department of National Revenue which have this problem. I would ask the minister to get together with his other colleagues on this matter and see whether something cannot be done about it, because I do not think it is good for morale to have men working side by side in a boat, or two little boats working side by side doing the same work exactly, yet with the men getting different rates of pay. As an employer I believe the federal government should follow the principle of equal pay for equal work.
The third point I wish to bring to the minister's attenti