Eighth and ninth reports of the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills- Mr. Mandziuk.
That the second report of the special committee appointed to consider with Mr. Speaker the procedure of this house, presented on Tuesday, September 26, be now concurred in.


Motion agreed to.
On September 19 last, during discussion on the second reading of Bill No. 128 to amend the National Housing Act, the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate asked if I would place on record in Hansard a list of those universities which have had loans approved under part VIA of the National
Housing Act. I now have this list, and with the permission of the house I shall be glad to have it tabled for inclusion in Hansard.
The hon. gentleman also asked for a list showing all the institutions which would be eligible for such loans. There is, of course, no such definitive list. I thought I had made this abundantly clear when replying to a similar question asked in December of last year, when my answer was recorded on page 1028 of Hansard. However, so as to avoid any further misunderstanding I will again define the meaning of "university" for the purposes of this part of the act. Institutions eligible for loans under part VIA of the National Housing Act are all degree conferring universities or colleges and also other institutions in which courses of full university standard are given although the degree may be conferred by a university with which it is affiliated.
May I have the permission of the house to table the list?


To table and print it. Perhaps it would be convenient if it were printed at the point in Hansard where the answer is given. Is that agreed?


Agreed.
[Editor's note: The table above referred to is as follows: ]


Name of Institution
Acadia University, Wolfeville, N.S	
Assumption University. Windsor, Ont	
Brandon College, Brandon, Man	
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C	
Carleton University, Ottawa, Ont	
Emmanuel College, Saskatoon, Sask	
University of King's College, Halifax, N.S	
Laval University, Quebec City, Que	
Mount St. Bernard College, Antigonish, N.S	
University of New Brunswick, Fredericton. N.B	
Notre Dame College, Wilcox, Sask	
L'Academie de Quebec, Quebec City, Que	
St. Francis Xavier University, Antigonish, N.S	
University of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Que	
United College, Winnipeg, Man	
Waterloo Lutheran University, Waterloo, Ontario	
University of St. Jerome's College, Kitchener, Ont	
Seminaire de Nicolet, P.Q	
Seminaire Saint-Pie X, Hauterive, Que	
College de Matane, Matane, Que	
nount of Loan	Students Accommodated
$ 503,370	145
1,378,564	220
905,972	152
1,331,948	336
1,512,000	315
394,176	82
689,670	106
3,255,000	465
560,862	126
1,800,000	428
213,975	36
810,000	200
1,315,863	314
1,750,000	461
692,658	136
275,790	100
300,000	98
483.300	125
221,706	90
630,900	120
$19,028,752	4055
Awaiting order in council approval.
8976	HOUSE OF
Starred Questions
1.	Since January 1, 1961, have any representations been received regarding the building of a breakwater at Port Renfrew, Port San Juan bay, Vancouver island, B.C.?
2.	If so, what is the name and address of each person, organization or group which made such representations, and the date of each?
3.	What steps, if any, have been taken to build such a breakwater, and when will this project be started?


The answer to the first question is yes. As for the second question, I have a long list and would ask leave to table it or to have it made an order for return. In answer to the third question, may I say that the proposal is still being studied and no decision has yet been reached on starting the project.


Is it the pleasure of the house that the list be tabled?


Agreed.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works arising out of his answer to starred question No. 472 the reply to which was tabled and which I have now examined. Why is the name of George Chatterton missing from the list, in view of the fact that on May 4, 1961 the minister indicated that Mr. Chatterton had made representations to him about the construction of this breakwater?


Mr. Speaker, the reeve of Saanich is very different from the hon. member for Skeena. He came to see me personally not once but many times. He was not content with simply writing me letters.


Why, then, is his name not on the list?


If the hon. member reads the question and reply again he will have his answer.


Has the director of investigation and research of the combines investigation branch initiated an investigation into a simultaneous price increase of radio and television tubes by two manufacturers in the electronics industry?


The
combines branch maintains a continuing interest in this field as in other fields, and any information coming to the attention of the


director which may indicate a possible contravention of the Combines Investigation Act is considered carefully to determine whether the situation is such as to warrant formal inquiry. The general practice, however, is that no information is given out as to whether an inquiry under the act is being pursued in a particular industry unless and until a report is published.


1.	Has the Minister of Labour or the unemployment insurance commission received representations from the Phalen local of the united mine workers in Nova Scotia respecting the reduction in benefits during the week following the vacation period in the coal mines?
2.	If so, has a reply been made, and what is the nature of the reply?


The answer to the first part of the question is yes. In answer to the second part, a telegram reading as follows was sent to the Phalen local of the united mine workers in Nova Scotia on August 24, 1961:
Holiday pay for Dominion Coal employees will be allocated on basis of normal earnings for six day work week. Believe this will rectify situation which you brought to my attention.


1.	Is a change contemplated in the Montreal-Halifax passenger service provided by the Ocean Limited, the Scotian, and the Maritime Express?
2.	If so, (a) what are the changes contemplated? (b) what trades will be affected, and what will be the reduction in personnel in each trade? (c) will they affect present passenger services between divisional and subdivision points?


Mr. Speaker, in answer to parts 1 and 2 of this question, the management of Canadian National Railways advise that the maritime train services are currently under review but no changes have yet been decided upon.


1.	Has the Minister of National Defence received a communication from the international association of machinists, Point Edward naval base, requesting an investigation of the wage structure at the base with a view to establishing rates comparable for similar employees in other industries in the same area?
2.	If so, what action has been taken on this request?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to part 1 of this question is yes. In answer to part 2, the information in this letter has been forwarded

to the Department of Labour, since that department is responsible for investigating and making recommendations regarding appropriate wage rates for prevailing rate employees of all government departments.


1.	When was the decision taken to build the Champlain bridge?
2.	What was the estimate of cost at that date?
3.	Have other estimates of cost been made since that date, and, if so, on what dates?
4.	What is the present estimate of cost?
5.	How many contracts have been given for the construction of this bridge and approaches, to whom, on what date, for what work, and in what amounts?
6.	Have any claims been filed with the national harbours board by any of these contractors or subcontractors, and in what amounts?
7.	What will be the final cost of this bridge?
8.	What will be the official date for the opening of the bridge?
9.	Will all the proposed approaches be ready at the opening of the bridge, and, if not, when will each approach be ready?
Starred Questions


Mr. Speaker, the details of a number of contracts are included in the answers to the several parts of this question. As the complete answer is very lengthy, perhaps the house will agree that it be printed in Hansard without being read.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.
[Editor's note: The answer above referred to is as follows:]
The national harbours board advises as follows:
1.	The construction of the bridge was authorized in 1955.
2.	The estimate of cost at that date was $35,000,000.
3.	No.
4.	The present estimated cost of the bridge is $35,300,338.
5.	The following contracts have been awarded in connection with the construction of Champlain bridge:
Description	Contractor	Amount	Date	Fill material, north end, Nuns' island bridge	Edouard Monette Ltee ..	$ 108,332.72	July	25/57Piers IE, 2E, and 1W, 2W, Nuns' island bridge 	Atlas Construction Co. Ltd	638,863.34	July	25/57Fill, south approach, Nuns' island bridge	Walsh-Canadian Construction Co	56,144.30	Sept.	25/57Construction of temporary causeway from city of Montreal to Nuns' island 	Edouard Monette Ltee ..	298,851.40	Feb.	26/58Construction of piers and abutments, section 3 of Nuns' island bridge ..	The Foundation Company of Canada Limited ...	1,640,650.00	July	29/58Supply and placing of fill on Nuns' island 	Miron Construction Limited	178,743.85	Sept.	19/58Extension of St. Pierre collector outlet .	McNamara (Quebec) Limited	343,223.00	June	5/59Construction of superstructure, section 3 of Champlain bridge 	Creaghan & Archibald Limited	1,044,540.00	July	17/59Construction of piers and superstructure, sections 5 and 7A, Champlain bridge 	McNamara (Quebec) Ltd. Key Construction, and Deschamps	8,317,797.00	June	29/59Construction of superstructure, section 6 of Champlain bridge	Dominion Bridge Company, Limited	5,907,000.00	Oct.	2/59Construction of abutment, piers and prestressed concrete superstructure, section 7B of Champlain bridge ..	A. Janin & Company ..	651,235.00	June	13/60
90205-6-566

Starred Questions
Description Supply and placing of fill for the main roadway embankment, section 2 of	Contractor	Amount	Date	Champlain bridge 	
Construction of the main overpass, sec-	Charles Duranceau Ltee .	$144,500.00	Sept.	2/60tion 2, Champlain bridge 	
Construction of the toll plaza and administration building, section 4,	Charles Duranceau Ltee .	266,684.00	Nov.	16/60Champlain bridge 	
Construction of north and south over-	Louis Donolo Inc	397,000.00	June	26/61passes, section 2, Champlain bridge Construction of roadways, sections 2 and	Quebec Engineering Ltd.	82,929.00	Aug.	18/613, Champlain bridge 	Miron Company Ltd. ..	618,892.39	Aug.	29/616. No.	DR. G. LANGIS7.	The final cost of the bridge and approaches will be approximately $35,000,000, exclusive of interest during construction.8.	It is expected that the bridge will be open for traffic in June, 1962.9.	Not all the final approaches will be completed when the bridge is opened in 1962 but means of access to the bridge will be available at both the north and south shore ends of the bridge so that it can be operated satisfactory.


1.	Was Dr. G. Langis, M.D., at one time a temporary medical officer of the Department of National Health and Welfare, quarantine and sick mariners division?
2.	How long had he acted in this capacity?
3.	Has he been dismissed?
4.	When, and for what reason?
5.	Is Dr. Langis a veteran with overseas service?


Mr. Speaker, the answers to the five parts of this question are as follows:


1.	On what date did the federal government agree to participate in a survey of the feasibility and cost of the Chignecto canal?
2.	On what date did the survey actually start?
3.	Is survey work in progress on the site at the present time?
4.	Have any representations been received since July 1, 1961, in connection with the Chignecto canal survey, and, if so, from whom?


Mr. Speaker, I do not have the information available but it will be made available. This is the first time this question has appeared on the order paper. May I ask that this be made an order for return?


Order for return.

1.	Yes.
2.	Dr. Langis was appointed port physician at Rimouski on December 5, 1935, and retained that position until August 25, 1961, with the exception of some three years during and immediately after the second world war.
3 and 4. A successor was named on August 25 of this year because it was felt that the duties of a part time position of this type, involving night calls and other inconveniences, could best be undertaken by a younger doctor who has not developed other demands on his time nor had the same opportunity to build up a large private practice. The new port physician had performed services for my department previously when Dr. Langis was not available.
5.	Yes.
On the orders of the day:


I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. In view of the minister's request that starred question No. 478 be made an order for return, and in view of the pending prorogation, I wonder if the minister would forward me the information requested as soon as possible.


I shall be very happy to do that.


1.	What was the value in dollars of (a) imports from, and (b) exports to Cuba, in (i) 1958 (ii) 1959 (iii) 1960 (iv) 1961 to date?
2.	How much sugar was imported by Canada by countries, and by (a) tons (b) value in dollars, in (i) 1958 (ii) 1959 (iii) 1960 (iv) 1961 to date?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to this question requires

three pages of tabulated material. It should be made an order for return, the answer tabled herewith.


Order for return.


1.	For each year from January 1, 1956, to December 31, 1960, how many hours has the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation granted, on both the English and French networks, for (a) radio broadcasts, and (b) television broadcasts, to any of the conventions by the (i) Progressive Conservative party (ii) Liberal party (iii) Social Credit party, and (iv) Co-operative Commonwealth Federation?
2.	In each of the above-mentioned cases, what were the total amounts spent for broadcasting purposes?


Mr. Speaker, there is a tremendous amount of detail material necessary in preparing the answer to this question. The corporation has been working on it but the information is not available today. Perhaps the hon. member will be willing to have this made an order for return so the answer could be forthcoming in the very near future. Alternatively, the next time these questions are called it could appear on the order paper again.


Order for return.


1.	What action, if any, has the government taken with respect to the pension scheme which was adopted by the board of directors of the Bank of Canada on February 15, 1960?
2. In what respect has such action, if any, affected the pension rights of the former governor, Mr. James Coyne?
3. In what respect has such action, if any. affected any other employees of the Bank of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the board of directors of the Bank of Canada at its meeting on July 22, 1961 decided to seek legal opinion on the validity of the bank's pension by-law and in particular rule No. 17 in that by-law. On the same day the board of directors adopted a resolution suspending rule No. 17 of the by-law pending further consideration by the board.


1.	Were any trusts established in connection with the sale of the Sarnia Indian reserve which has since been cancelled?
2.	What was the purpose of these trusts, and what amount was set aside for each of them?
3.	Are the trusts being used for the purpose for which they were established?
90205-6-566i
Starred. Questions
4.	If not, what disposition is to be made of these trusts?
5.	Has any attempt been made to ascertain the views of the Sarnia Indian band with respect to these trusts, and, if so, with what results?
6.	If the band has not been consulted, is it proposed to consult the band, and, if so, when, and how?


Mr. Speaker,
the answers to the six parts of this question are as follows:
1.	Yes.
2.	(a) The sum of $500,000 for the establishment of a modern village.
(b) The sum of $100,000 to aid members without land holdings to acquire building sites in the village.
3.	The funds set aside in trust are being held to be used for the purposes stipulated.
4.	Not applicable.
5.	By vote taken on August 28, 1961 a majority of the electors of the band favoured a per capita distribution of these trust moneys. The legal problems involved are under study.
6.	Answered by 5.
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration a question supplementary to the starred question to which she replied earlier. May I ask the hon. lady whether there is any present intention of going ahead with the model village in the Sarnia reserve which was provided for in the agreement between the crown and Dimensional Investments Limited?


Mr. Speaker, some progress has been made. Some houses have been built and are presently occupied. I would have to have more information about the present situation before I could definitely answer the hon. member.
While I am on this subject may I refer to the answer which I gave earlier this morning. Possibly I should draw attention to the fact that there is a slight discrepancy between the figure of $1 million I gave yesterday and the figures I gave the hon. member this morning, which amounted to $600,000. The explanation of the $400,000 discrepancy is that that sum is in the band funds. That is the amount required under section 64 (a), of the Indian Act, that is 50 per cent of the capital funds, to be deposited in the band funds, the balance being available for distribution in circumstances similar to those in this case.


I have another question I wish to put to the hon. lady. Are any negotiations or discussions going on at the present

Motions for Papers
time with respect to another sale or attempted sale of the reserve, or what is left of it?


I cannot answer that, Mr. Speaker, because the initial negotiations would be with the Indians. I really could not say whether they are presently negotiating with other purchasers. We usually do not hear about these matters in the branch until such time as some progress has been made.


Well, the hon. lady is not aware of such discussions, is that correct?


No, Mr. Speaker.


1.	On what date did the federal government agree to participate in a survey of the feasibility and cost of the Chignecto canal?
2.	On what date did the survey actually start?
3.	Is survey work in progress on the site at the present time?
4.	Have any representations been received since July 1, 1961, in connection with the Chignecto canal survey, and, if so, from whom?


1.	What was the value in dollars of (a) imports from, and (b) exports to Cuba, in (i) 1958 (11) 1959 (iii) 1960 (iv) 1961 to date?
2.	How much sugar was imported by Canada by countries, and by (a) tons (b) value in dollars, in (i) 1958 (ii) 1959 (iii) 1960 (iv) 1961 to date?


1.	For each year from January 1, 1956, to December 31, 1960, how many hours has the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation granted, on both the English and French networks, for (a) radio broadcasts, and (b) television broadcasts, to any of the conventions by the (i) Progressive Conservative party (ii) Liberal party (iii) Social Credit party, and (iv) Co-operative Commonwealth Federation?
2.	In each of the above mentioned cases, what were the total amounts spent for broadcasting purposes?


Motion No. 164-Mr. Maiheson:
For copies of the texts of the speeches delivered by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Trade and Commerce at the Accra conference.
Mr. Speaker, as I stated on Monday last, as recorded at page 8829 of Hansard of that date, it is not considered
[Mr. Pickersgill.)
correct procedure for ministers, when they return to the governments which they represent, and to their houses of parliament, to table the text of speeches delivered at a conference. In view of this I wonder whether the hon. member would consider withdrawing his motion.


No.


Those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


Those against will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the nays have it.
And more than five members having risen:


Call in the members.


I declare the motion lost.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce and ask if it is a fact that the anti-combines legislation as it affects exports is not working satisfactorily, and that what was thought in 1960 to be a new spur to foreign sales has become in 1961 a disappointment to the trade department.


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of this. If the hon. member wishes more specific information on how the anti-combines legislation is working, I think he should perhaps direct his question to the Minister of Justice.
Inquiries of the Ministry


A supplementary question, if I may, Mr. Speaker. I had reference, when I posed the question to the minister, to an article appearing in the Montreal Gazette of Monday in which it was indicated that because of the manner in which the legislation-


Order. I think the hon. member for Laurier will agree that a question about an opinion expressed in a newspaper is scarcely asking for factual information. If there is a question of fact about the administration of the department, I would of course be prepared to accept it.


It is not an opinion, Mr. Speaker; it is a question of fact. I was asking the minister whether it was a fact that this legislation was working a hardship.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member has answered his own question. He says it is a fact, and then he asks me if it is a fact. I think that shows how confused the hon. member is.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a related question of the Minister of Justice. It is based on a report in the Toronto Globe and Mail of today in which the head of the combines branch is reported as having made certain statements. My question is this. What are the weaknesses in the combines law that seem to be complained of and referred to in this speech?


Order. With due deference to the hon. members who opened this line of inquiry, it is a matter for debate on the expression of opinion and is not something that could be answered briefly on the orders of the day. It would require perhaps half an hour to expound in order to give an adequate answer.


Then I put a question that is capable of a very short answer, yes or no. Did the minister see the report of the speech made by Mr. D. W. W. Henry, director of investigation and research under the combines act, which is contained in today's Globe and Mail?


Mr. Speaker, Mr. Henry has made a number of speeches in recent months with my knowledge and approval, and I am sure I do not know to what speech the hon. member is referring.


I am referring to the one
reported in today's Globe and Mail.


As you have pointed out, Mr. Speaker, this is getting to be speculative. I have the article in today's Globe and Mail

Inquiries of the Ministry but I have not yet been able to pinpoint any speech made by Mr. Henry referred to therein.


It is at the bottom of the column.


Yes, I see. It was a speech made by Mr. Henry to the retail merchants' association in Toronto. If one reads that speech there is in it, as I see it, no statement that the legislation needs amending. My hon. friend has put a very different interpretation on it from that which I think a proper reading, even of the report in the Globe and Mail, would lead an ordinary, reasonable person to draw.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker-


Order. I am sorry, but I think the matter has been pursued far enough.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance and ask the minister whether in recent days he has had any discussions with officials of the Bank of Montreal and the Bank of Nova Scotia relative to a merger of those two banks, and whether he has before him an application for a charter for a bank embracing the two banks I have mentioned.


No, sir.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Will the minister outline to the house the situation in regard to wheat delivery quotas on the prairies?


I am very glad I have been asked this question, Mr. Speaker, because it gives me an opportunity to-


Make a speech.


-make a statement. In the last crop year we were able for the first time to give a 7-bushel quota to every delivery point on the prairies. For this year to date I can quote the figures by provinces. I know all members are interested. Last year at this time there were 360 places
[Mr. Fulton.l
in Manitoba on the initial unit quota and 9 on the 1-bushel quota. This year there are 89 on the initial unit quota, 169 on the 1-bushel quota, 50 on the 2-bushel quota, 20 on the 3-bushel quota, 4 on the 4-bushel quota, and 21 on the 5-bushel quota.
In Saskatchewan last year 959 were on the initial unit quota and 123 on the 1-bushel quota. This year there are 424 on the initial unit quota, 532 on the 1-bushel quota, 79 on the 2-bushel quota, 20 on the 3-bushel quota, 1 on the 4-bushel quota and 6 on the 5-bushel quota.
In Alberta last year there were 492 still on the initial unit quota and only 57 on the 1-bushel quota. This year there are 110 on the initial unit quota, 255 on the 1-bushel quota, 119 on the 2-bushel quota, 48 on the 3-bushel quota, 1 on the 4-bushel quota and 11 on the 5-bushel quota.
This indicates that we should be able, thanks to the exports of last year and the continuing good sales of this year, to have quotas up to 3 and 4 at most delivery points by Christmas.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether I may direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Can the minister say if the federal authority is still in effect and if it will continue in respect of reimbursing the province of Ontario for 40 per cent of the money paid to Ontario farmers suffering loss of domestic animals through rabies?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, our legislation is effective as long as the provincial legislation in Ontario is effective.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. We were happy to hear of his recent visit to His Holiness Pope John XXIII.
Would the minister care to say a few words about the impression he had after his audience with the Holy Father and about the language in which they conversed?

Inquiries of the Ministry
(Text):


Order. I do not wish to circumscribe the minister, who has recently returned from an interesting trip, but as I understood the question it seemed like a general invitation to the minister to give us a travelogue, and perhaps he could do that more suitably on the estimates. If there is a short point, I have no objection.
(Translation):


The conversation I was privileged to have with His Holiness, during a private audience, was entirely in French. As all members know, His Holiness speaks French with great facility.
(Text):


May I put a supplementary question to the Minister of Finance and ask him if the question he has just answered has any relation to his administrative responsibility?


I am sorry, but I misunderstood the question. I did not realize it was limited to a particular interview.
[Later:)


Before calling orders of the day I wonder whether the house would allow me to make a correction in Hansard. I must apologize to the hon. member for Quebec West for misunderstanding his question. Unfortunately I relied on the translation, which was incomplete and faulty, and I did not understand that the hon. gentleman was asking about the minister's interview with His Holiness the Pope. I thought he was inviting the minister to give an account of his visit to Accra or to comment generally about his travels. I take the liberty of making this explanation because I am afraid earlier comments on what I thought had been asked might appear facetious in relation to the actual question.


On the orders of the day:
wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister care to comment on the proposal made yesterday by the Soviet foreign minister, Mr. Gromyko, regarding Berlin?
Right Hon. J. G. Diefenbaker (Prime
Minister): I have read Mr. Gromyko's observations in which there were references to the type of settlement which might be acceptable to the U.S.S.R. in so far as the United Nations is concerned and its connection therewith. I think it was at Winnipeg,
at a meeting of the bar association, that I outlined the possibilities in this direction, and I did so again in the house some two weeks ago. I pointed out that a United Nations connection with the Berlin problem might be advantageous. As a matter of fact that view was presented by the Canadian government two years ago.
Whether or not Mr. Gromyko's plan or suggestion contains anything that would be acceptable, I cannot say. The whole matter is being canvassed at the moment. Discussions are taking place between the various members of the United Nations to ascertain whether or not the United Nations could play a role which would be generally acceptable. I hope that might be achieved.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Did the government receive a request from the city of Westmount to assist financially in the inclusion of bomb emergency shelters in apartment houses being erected in that city, or to subsidize those shelters? If so, can the minister inform the house what the government is doing about this inquiry?


I know of no such request.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Public Works whether he is in a position today to answer the question I put to him yesterday with respect to the conformity of the recommended shelters with the national building code.


I was waiting only until the other questions had been asked. I am very happy to answer the hon. member for Nipissing, who asked whether it was true that the fall-out shelters which the government is recommending people should build in their basements are inconsistent with the national building code.
Upon inquiry I find that this matter has been considered by the associate committee of the national research council which drew up and recommended the national building
8984	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry code. They have made the following statement about the matter, which is incorporated in the booklet on this shelter:
The associate committee on the national building code of the national research council considers this design of household fall-out shelters to be structurally acceptable for its intended use for installation in the basements of dwellings, for emergency use only.
The associate committee makes this statement since the provisions of the national building code are intended for use with buildings for normal conditions of occupancy and not for emergency use.
There are two aspects of the shelter which diverge, for good reason, from certain of the details of the national building code. The first and most obvious one is that the code stipulates that each room in a house should have a window. It would, of course, defeat the whole purpose of the shelter to put a window in it, and the need for ventilation in the shelter is looked after otherwise by vents which it is recommended be built in appropriate places that will not impair the protective value of the shelter.
The other feature specified in the code which has not been carried into the shelter design is that which states that masonry should not be structurally supported on timber. The shelter uses masonry in the form of concrete blocks as a shielding material. To carry it on steel or on other masonry supports would make the shelter Very much more expensive and more difficult to build. For the emergency purposes for which the shelter is designed and for the period of usefulness that might reasonably be expected for a shelter, it has been determined that, as reflected by the quotation from the associate committee, the design proposed is quite adequate.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister any report from our delegation at the United Nations to the effect that our Secretary of State for External Affairs could succeed the late Dag Ham-marskjold as secretary general?


I would be afraid to speak in appropriate terms as to the qualifications of the Secretary of State for External Affairs for that particular position because my words might be misunderstood, as was a previous statement I made, as evidence of a potential separation, which of course is non-existent. I know of no one who could discharge those responsibilities in a better manner, but, as


the hon. gentleman knows, decisions in this regard are the result of consultation and require the support of some nations which I am sure, having regard to some of the statements which the Secretary of State for External Affairs has made on behalf of freedom, would not find his candidature altogether acceptable; I have in mind certain members of the United Nations.


On the orders of the day:
On Saturday last I put a question to the Minister of Justice. He was unavoidably absent at that moment. The question was based upon a speech made by Deputy Commissioner McClellan of the R.C.M.P. at Halifax with respect to some internal union matters at Sudbury. I wonder if the minister is now able to answer it.


I have looked into this matter, and I find that what the deputy commissioner was discussing there was the question of fact. Of course it is a well accepted rule that officers in his position do not make speeches on matters of policy. This speech dealt with a matter of fact to which I myself have already alluded in this house, that is, the efforts made by communists to infiltrate trade unions and other perfectly reputable organizations.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. In view of the statement made by Mr. William F. Ryan, Q.C., president of the association of Canadian law teachers, appearing in the Montreal Star of September 26, criticizing the government's course in formulating proposals to amend the British North America Act, will the minister advise the house whether the government intends to provide an opportunity for public representations to be made on constitutional amendments before legislation is introduced?


The
future course in respect of this matter is as I outlined it in reply to a question by the hon. member for Laurier about 10 days ago. Perhaps I should emphasize one point. When the final draft, which is being worked on at the present time, is circulated to the attorneys general in the near future it is the intention

Inquiries of the Ministry to make it public so there may be public ability of granting to part-time or seasonal information and discussion before legislative government employees paid holidays as for action is taken.	permanent employees?


Is it the minister's intention to provide for public hearings at which representations may be made in a formal way prior to the introduction of such legislation?


Mr. Speaker, no such decision has been made on that point.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. Has the minister received any indication of the possible cause of the tragic crash of an R.C.A.F. trainer aircraft north of Toronto Monday night?


No, Mr. Speaker, I have not yet received a report of the investigation being carried on as to the cause of this tragic crash.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice arising out of the livestock producers' concern that there shall not be a combine in the meat packing industry. Has the government come to a conclusion with regard to the recommendation by the restrictive trade practices commission that a court order should be sought to have a merger in the meat packing industry dissolved or to prevent further mergers taking place?


Mr. Speaker, the government is in process of selecting counsel in that particular matter now. As soon as that has been done we will, of course, be discussing with counsel the appropriate course to be followed in the light of the report.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question of the Secretary of State? Is he now in a position to report to the house on his work concerning the advis-


Mr. Speaker, I think I shall be able to give an answer to the hon. member tomorrow.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I also direct a question to the Secretary of State and ask whether he could give another interim report on his efforts to comply with the orders of the house made on November 30 last for returns respecting the travels of cabinet ministers?
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I must repeat the answer I gave the hon. member for St. Denis. I am waiting until all the documents are gathered before tabling the information the hon. member is asking for.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct two questions to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Are any steps being taken by the government to develop methods for combatting the level of strontium 90? I should also like to know whether there has been any progress in the removal of strontium 90 once it actually enters the body.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to thank the hon. member for giving me notice of these questions. I am pleased to be able to advise that a method is being developed which might prove useful in this connection. It is based on the work of Dr. B. B. Migicovsky of the Department of Agriculture, who has been concerned with the removal of strontium 90 from milk and other food products. I understand that he has been successful at the laboratory stage and that his methods are being tried out on a small production basis.
In answer to the second part of the hon. member's question, I understand that research is being carried out along these lines but has as yet produced little of practical value.
90205-6-567

Dominion-Provincial Relations


The house resumed from Tuesday, September 26, consideration of the motion of Mr. Fleming (Eglinton) for the second reading of Bill No. C-122, to authorize agreements respecting tax collection and annual grants.
(Translation):
Mr. Speaker, I stated last night how astounded and how surprised I was to hear the Liberals proclaim their autonomist faith. We really know them too well to be misled about their sincerity and their sense of responsibility. They know all the arts of make-believe, that I grant; but they surely have exhausted all their acting tricks. Nothing doing now, the people know who they are.
They know that the Liberal party eagerly destroyed the country's constitution while protesting that they were respectful of principles and traditions. We only have to remember the risky initiative of university grants. It constitutes clear enough evidence.
What is happening nowadays? The Liberals are uselessly trying to restore their virginity because a former federalist and centralizer, Mr. Jean Lesage, has placed them in a strange and precarious situation by solemnly stating his deep respect for principles and realities which only yesterday he was despising and treading underfoot.
A frantic centralist in 1949, 1951 and 1954, Mr. Lesage would now be, in 1961, an out-and-out autonomist; and that, shamelessly and even without the elementary tactfulness it would be in order for him to show towards his former accomplices. Flinging his autonomy into their faces, he forgets that the Liberals in Ottawa used to be his friends and associates.
Walking in someone else's shoes, it will be recalled that Mr. Lesage came to Ottawa, in 1960, to bumptiously assert Quebec's rights. He is now opposed to university grants, after having had a hand in the legislation that has put them into effect. He now shamelessly contradicts himself, having finally realized that his own little salvation lies in his being able to show off as an autonomist. He does not care a bit about his associates. That is why they are now like tight-rope walkers. They said so many times that they were in favour of federal grants to universities that today they do not know how to reconcile their former creed with Mr. Lesage's new gospel. For there is no doubt that Liberal members in Ottawa do not share Mr. Lesage's thinking.

We only have to recall the various statements they made, one by one in turn, about
university grants.
With your permission, Mr. Speaker, I should like to read into the record some of the statements I find in volume 3 of Hansard for 1960, in particular the following from the hon. member for Megantic (Mr. Roberge), on page 3315.
I therefore think, Mr. Speaker, that I am entitled to express my humble opinion and to conclude that the central government, or rather the central parliament, has a perfect right to vote grants to the universities, without encroaching on provincial autonomy in the educational field.
Here is another statement, this one from the hon. member for Gatineau, which is found on page 3305 of the same volume of Hansard:
I have always been in favour of university grants.
And now, Mr. Speaker, to add a pleasant aspect to a useful one, I shall quote the hon. member for Hull (Mr. Caron), whose remarks are found on page 2759 of the same volume of Hansard:
Everybody knows that grants to universities are a Liberal achievement.
It is a Liberal legislation we adopted at the time, that we are approving today, and that we shall continue to approve.
And he added:
We feel that the federal government has not only the right, but the duty, to assist our institutions of higher learning.
As to the hon. member for Lapointe (Mr. Brassard), he made the following statement, which hon. members will find on page 3550, in the same volume:
There is no possible doubt that the Liberal party was and still is in favour of assistance to universities.
Mr. Speaker, those people should therefore either remain centralists in Ottawa or become autonomists to please their allies in Quebec. In either case, they are inconsistent.
That explains their urge to find in other people instances of their own inconsistency. I shall immediately state, in order to reassure a tortured Liberal conscience, that the Conservative members from Quebec did not break the promise they made to their voters to defend autonomy and the rights of the province of Quebec in general.
Let us recall their stand on Bill C-56. At that time, they voted in favour of a bill which allowed the province of Quebec to pass its own tax legislation without its taxpayers being penalized. For my part, I said at the time that the solution contained in

the bill was of a temporary nature, that it was, after all, a formula of compromise, a fair compromise under the circumstances because it left the door open for a final settlement of the thorny problem created by the Liberal party, when it brought the central power into the forbidden field of education.
At that time I did not hesitate to vote with my party, not only for reasons of political solidarity, but in order to co-operate realistically, without any surrender of principle.
I have always thought, and I want to state it quite categorically, that the problem of the federal government interference in the field of education was not solved for all that. While I had, for the time being, to accept compromise formulas, I have never made a surrender of principles. I would remind those who are looking for inconsistency, of the philosophical notions of end and means.
In my opinion, all the solutions that have been suggested or adopted to this day in order to solve the problem of grants to universities have been and still are only more or less efficient means to reach the goal, that is the progressive but finally total withdrawal of the central government from this prohibited field of education at all levels.
I know that this is not easy and that this problem is closely related to that of tax sharing. Therefore, I appreciate the efforts of the Conservative government to give satisfaction on the one hand to the fierce autonomist demands of the province of Quebec and on the other hand, to the wish of the other provinces which did not understand readily what was at stake in the constitutional fight that Quebec fought alone, or almost alone, in spite of all opposition.
Again I say that the province of Quebec is not like the other provinces. Its characteristics, its stands come from its conception of confederation. One should not be surprised to find that, on certain constitutional matters, the stand taken by the province of Quebec is not the same as that of other provinces. The reason is that things are not yet seen in the same light everywhere and that we must proceed slowly and by steps with those who do not have the same reasons as we have to be autonomists.
This dissimilarity is but the expression of confederation itself, which is a system of compromises that worked unevenly, and it worked only because a lot of concessions were made, often at the expense, unfortunately, of the minority.
90205-6-567i
Dominion-Provincial Relations
It seems that people are afraid to accept the facts and to admit obvious realities, especially this one: that the governments in Ottawa have always been obliged to seesaw.
The coming into power of the Conservative party in 1957 has not brought any change to this basic situation. Confederation remained what it was: a system of compromises the polishing of which is a slow, arduous and very painful process. Will it ever work easily and smoothly? Personally, I have my doubts. But I pay a tribute to the Conservative government which, having inherited a very bad situation, has tried, and successfully, to set things straight and to correct the errors of the past.
After all it cannot be expected to move faster than facts, circumstances and existing situations will allow. The press, which is usually not too friendly towards Conservatives in general, has given credit to the members from Quebec in that respect. It understood the difficult situation in which we find ourselves. But, despite certain appearances which can still lend themselves to confusion, people are beginning to realize that we have fulfilled our undertaking to correct the constitutional situation. We have initiated methods and ways of assertion which have been effective and which should progressively overcome the difficulties brought about by the Liberal regime.
I do not wish to evade the issue rising from the bill before us by confining myself to generalities. I feel this is a worth-while piece of legislation. I think it would be better still if the option clause had been kept in. I will not hold that against the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fleming) as long as he gives me the assurance that the government intends to continue its efforts in order to find a solution which will take into strict account the autonomist rights and demands of the province of Quebec. For we are not free to draw back. The problem of university grants has begun to be dealt with. The government should not, by shilly-shallying, lose the credit they have gained for themselves. Quebec members have no alternative. They need guarantees, while the government's action has only provided a deposit. But we want more than that. Looking at the facts I am led to believe that the government will not fail us, that they will not deceive us, that they will continue and complete the task.

Dominion-Provincial Relations
I know the government is awaiting the Lesage proposals. But he is shy-he is hesitant now, after refusing the offers made by the Prime Minister (Mr. Diefenbaker). He seems to be frightened by the consequences of autonomy. In any case, he is in no hurry to grasp the fiscal benefits of these offers, for he would then have the trouble-and quite serious trouble under the circumstances -to say a few words about it to Quebec taxpayers. Moreover, when you see how eager his so-called autonomist government has been to accept the joint plans, after having denounced them in 1960, you no longer have any illusion about the sincerity of his autonomist convictions. His is an awkward task since he must reassure the electors of the province of Quebec, whose votes he obtained under false pretenses, and at the same time, he must prepare his reappearance on the federal scene besides his centralizing associates.
In my opinion, Mr. Speaker, the Quebec members have no choice, regardless of who they are. In his own way, every one of them must keep up the fight for autonomy which was led by Mr. Duplessis. We must admit that it has forced the central government to show a better frame of mind and that it has compelled a new concept of confederation. Indeed, Mr. Duplessis' autonomy was never negative or disguised. He often had to reject bluntly unacceptable proposals. On the other hand, he took the necessary steps.
Many try to minimize the importance of the role he played, to cut down his stature. That is why it is said that his fight for autonomy was inspired by petty considerations. Those people do not want to admit that he was the champion of our rights. He devoted his talents and his energy to the defence and preservation of the work of the fathers of the confederation.
We can rightly ask ourselves: What would have become of the Canadian confederation without him? During the tragic hours of the option, he fought alone and against everyone by refusing to comply with the entreaties of a central government which was anxious to take away from the provinces the rights and privileges they had acquired. He did so only to give his compatriots legal weapons to protect their national heritage. Instinctively, the people of our province understood the meaning of Maurice Duplessis' actions and remained true to him until the e