I should like to make a report to the house on the final accounting of the 1959-60 pool account for wheat. The 1959-60 pool account for wheat was closed as at May 26, 1961. The final accounting has been completed, and I am therefore in a position to advise the house of the operating results of this pool.
Producers delivered 377.4 million bushels to the 1959-60 pool. The 1959-60 pool closed with a surplus of $83,800,885, which included the interim payment of $37,744,417 paid to producers during February and March last. The final distribution to producers, therefore, will amount to $45,297,017, after allowing for the Prairie Farm Assistance Act levy and the cost of issuing final payment cheques, and after crediting the amount with estimated additional interest earnings.
On producers' deliveries of 377,444,166 bushels the average final payment is 12.017 cents per bushel. This compares with an average final payment on the 1958-59 pool account of 9.2425 cents per bushel.
Final payments for the principal grades of wheat delivered to the 1959-60 pool are as follows:
Red spring wheat grades
Final payment (cents per bushel)
No. 1 Manitoba Northern . .	8.809
No. 2 Manitoba Northern . .	8.674
No. 3	Manitoba Northern . .	9.592
No. 4 Manitoba Northern . .	12.174
No. 5	wheat	
20.997No. 6	wheat	
25.700Feed	wheat	
30.429
Hon. members will note that when the interim payment and the initial payment are added to the final payment the spread between No. 1 and No. 6 is now just 21 cents a bushel.
90205-6-429J
Amber Durum grades
Final payment (cents per bushel)
No. 1 C. W.	Amber	Durum	. .	18.133No. 2 C. W.	Amber	Durum	. .	18.358No. 3 C. W.	Amber	Durum	. .	20.383
Extra No. 4 C. W. Amber
Durum	 23.353
No. 4 C. W.	Amber	Durum	. .	22.888No. 5 C. W.	Amber	Durum	. .	20.997No. 6 C. W.	Amber	Durum	. .	25.700
The Canadian wheat board expects to commence issuing the final payment cheques during the last week in June.


Mr. Speaker, the farmers and businessmen generally in western Canada will welcome the announcement that the final payments for wheat are now being made. It is unfortunate that this year the announcement of the final payment is exactly one month later than last year. That is to be regretted. I hope, therefore, that the cheques will be distributed as quickly as possible.


Mr. Speaker, not being competent-


Agreed.


-to comment with knowledge upon the statement made by the Minister of Agriculture with respect to the report on the full account for wheat, I shall direct the attention of the hon. member for Assiniboia to this statement and report, and ask him to comment in the usual way through the facilities of the Canadian Press.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the supplementary report of the Canadian wheat board was received on Monday and the necessary orders in council were passed on Tuesday, I move:
That the annual report of the Canadian wheat board for the crop year ended July 31, 1960 which was tabled on March 3, 1961 and the report of the board of grain commissioners for 1960 which was tabled on April 12, 1961 and the supplementary report of the Canadian wheat board on the 1959-60
6808	HOUSE OF
Reports Referred to Agriculture Committee pool account for wheat, oats and barley tabled today, be referred to the standing committee on agriculture and colonization.


Has the hon. minister leave to present this motion?


Agreed.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Mr. Speaker, as this is a debatable question 1 should like to point out that the interesting proposal made by the Minister of Agriculture this morning in suggesting that this report be referred to the proper standing committee of this house is of course fully in accordance with our practice. He is to be commended for recognizing the rights of parliament in this matter. It is regrettable, however, that the Minister of Finance-


Order. The hon. member cannot use this debate as a means of introducing something which is quite irrelevant; that is, the conduct of the Minister of Finance.


Mr. Speaker, may I bring to the attention of the house a matter suggested by this procedure which is of vital importance to this country at this time. The practice which the Minister of Agriculture has resorted to, namely of referring the report of the wheat board to the parliamentary committee, particularly when there is no statutory obligation to do so, is a recognition by the minister, who on so many other accounts I have criticized and who today I applaud and warmly congratulate, of the fundamental rights of parliament and through parliament, the rights of the people of this country. The practice which the government has followed in this particular is a practice which the government should follow in all particulars, first of all in the Department of Agriculture-


Order.


I am dealing with the Department of Agriculture. There are other reports of that department which-


Order.


Order.


There are other reports that-


Order.


There are other reports-


Order. I am sure the hon. member will appreciate that the only question involved is whether this particular report should be referred to the standing com-
[Mr. Hamilton (Qu'Appelle) .1

mittee. It would be out of order for him to introduce other extraneous and controversial matters which are not now relevant to this issue.


Mr. Speaker, I was saying that other reports of the Department of Agriculture likewise-


Order.


Does Your Honour take the position-and I ask this question for enlightenment-that I have no right to mention other reports of the Department of Agriculture or of the government of Canada, such as the report of the Bank of Canada?


Yes, I take the position that it would be irrelevant to mention any other reports.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to say a word on this motion. I am not able to go as far as my hon. friend from Essex East has gone in commending the Minister of Agriculture. I am not able to do so because I assume the Minister of Agriculture, acting as a responsible member of the government and representing the collective decision of the government under our system of responsible government, is making this motion in pursuance of a decision made by the government.
Now, sir, the consideration of this report is going to take the time of members of the standing committee on agriculture, and take them away from the business of the house at a time when there is exceedingly important business before it, namely a budget that is alleged to be expansionist. Before we send a matter of this kind to the committee we should consider very carefully the proper use of our time in parliament. I am sure you will agree, sir, that this might well be done because in certain circumstances I would feel, in view of all the other demands upon our time, that perhaps it was inappropriate at this time and at this stage of the session to be taking this matter before the committee until other more urgent matters are taken there.
There is a very much more urgent matter, sir, the determination of which would affect my judgment on this particular measure. Because it would affect my judgment on this particular measure, and because I assume this is still a free parliament where there is freedom of expression of one's views as to the attitude one should take with respect to any motion and all the considerations that may enter into one's mind in determining that attitude, I say, sir, we should not be sending

this report to the committee until after the report of the Bank of Canada is sent to the appropriate committee.


Is the house ready for the question?


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, this is a very prosaic statement after all this by-play. As I announced in the house on May 19, Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation offered mortgages to approved lenders and investment dealers at auction in the form of 30 parcels, each covering different geographical areas and each valued at approximately $500,000. The tenders on this issue closed on Monday June 19, at 11 a.m., and I should like to announce to the house the results of this first sale of mortgages at auction.
The mortgages offered all carried an interest rate of 6J per cent with approximately 25 years to run. The average accepted tender across the board was at a premium, at 101.17, and in this connection I might explain that the bidders for these mortgages are all professional buyers of securities who know it costs about one point to put an investment of this kind on their books. Hon. members will therefore understand that, when this cost is deducted from the bid price, the tenders are at about par.
Of the 30 parcels offered for sale, there were five on which no bids were received. On the remaining 25 parcels, worth approximately $12J million, the total bids amounted to $31 million. Allotments of the $124 million have already been made to the successful bidders. In this first auction bids were received from chartered banks, life insurance and trust companies and investment dealers, a fairly representative cross section of those who can be expected to develop a secondary market in mortgages.
The results of the auction are such as to encourage a second offering to the growing mortgage market. In order that dealers may have time to dispose of the first issue, Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation undertook not to make a second offering before the 18th of August, and it is likely that Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation will make its second offering about that time.


Mr. Speaker, I assume that there was some degree of cooperation between the minister and the Minister of Finance at appropriate periods. It is fortunate that this sale was completed before
Starred Questions
the budget came down. I wonder whether the minister would say first of all how many 6| per cent mortgages there are to be sold, and how many are likely to be offered in this fiscal year?


Mr. Speaker, that will all be a matter for the judgment of the corporation as time goes on. I would be very happy to ascertain for the hon. member for Nipissing the particulars of how many 6f per cent mortgages are held at the present time. As to how we will sell them and the allotments, that depends a great deal on conditions at the time.


Will there be mortgages bearing less interest than 6f per cent offered for sale in this fiscal year?


I am glad the hon. member asked that question. Not at this time; the next auction will also be 6f per cent mortgages.


Mr. Speaker, I think the minister is to be congratulated on the successful and very remunerative sale of the mortgages that were sold. However, I do feel that his announcement that no bids were received on five of the 30 parcels of these mortgages is a sad reflection on the investment houses of Canada. All of us are aware that there is much idle investment capital available in Canada at the present time, and the fact that not even a single bid was received is, I believe, a reflection on the business community of Canada and on their lack of confidence in the government.


Mr. Speaker, on the contrary it is a reflection indicating the good judgment of the government-


Order.


1.	Have copies of the bill of rights been printed for distribution to the public?
2.	If so, is anything except the bill itself included
in the printing?
3.	How many copies have been prepared?
4.	On what basis are they being distributed?
5.	Has the bill of rights been inscribed on calfskin?
6.	If so, was anything else inscribed with the text of the bill itself?
7.	What was the cost of preparing this document, and what is its purpose?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to all parts of this question is as follows: Twenty thousand copies of the bill of rights in English and 7,000 copies in French, suitable for framing and mounting

Starred Questions
on a wall, have been printed. Of these, 15,000 English and 5,000 French, bore, in addition to the bill itself, the coat of arms of Canada and an extract from the Prime Minister's statement in the House of Commons on July 1, 1960, summarizing the effect of the bill of rights, together with a reproduction of the Prime Minister's signature. These were printed on parchment paper. Only the original in English and the original in French were prepared on calfskin, from which the parchment copies were reproduced.
The cost of preparing the calfskin originals was $887.16 paid to the artist; and their purpose, as indicated, was as basic art work for the reproduction of illuminated copies of the bill of rights for sale and distribution to the public. The sale price will be $1 per copy for the illuminated reproduction printed on parchment. The plain copy of the bill of rights, not illuminated and printed on plain paper, will be sold for 25 cents per copy.


What has been the cost to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation of the sponsorship of the annual meeting of the Canadian institute on public affairs for each year since the said institute was established?
(Translation):


The C.B.C. advises me as follows:
The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation has never sponsored the annual meeting of that institute. The C.B.C. has paid to the Canadian institute on public affairs, since its establishment, certain amounts for broadcasting rights, participation, research, etc. Those amounts have been appropriated on a pro rata basis to radio and television. (Text):


1.	Was Mr. Mieczyslaw Wilk a landed immigrant?
2.	If so, on what date was he landed?
3.	Did Mr. Wilk apply for the admission to Canada of the wife he had married by proxy?
4.	If so, was his wife within the category of persons admissible under the existing immigration regulations?
5.	If not, for what reason?
6.	Is Mrs. Wilk a prohibited person under the Immigration Act?
7.	Was the application for her admission refused for other than merely technical reasons?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is as follows:
1.	Yes.
2.	January 5, 1959.
3.	Yes.

4,	5, 6 and 7. Section 20(c) of the immigration regulations provides for the inclusion, within the categories of persons admissible to Canada, of the wife or fiancee-including the proxy wife-of a person who is a citizen by birth or naturalization of any country of Europe and who has been legally admitted to Canada for permanent residence.
Mr. Wilk's application for his proxy wife, therefore, came within the general provisions of this regulation. However, because of the limited examination facilities available to the department in respect of applications on behalf of residents in Poland, it is not possible to deal with all applications falling within the admissible categories set out in regulation 20(c). In accordance with policies established in 1956 and still in effect, the actual processing of applications is therefore generally limited to applications submitted by Canadian citizens.
Since Mr. Wilk, at the time of application, had not been in Canada long enough to acquire Canadian citizenship, he was advised that it was not possible to proceed further with his application at the present time; but that, if he wished to renew it at a later date, it would then be given further consideration.
Since, for the foregoing reasons, Mr. Wilk's application could not be proceeded with, medical and other aspects of Mrs. Wilk's examination for admission to Canada were not completed. It is not therefore possible to state whether or not Mrs. Wilk is a prohibited person within the meaning of the Immigration Act.


1.	What is the value of the contract awarded to Okanagan Helicopters Ltd., as of now on the D.E.W. line?
2.	What is the value of the contract awarded to Okanagan as of now on the Pine Tree line?


Mr. Speaker, the value of the contract being carried out as of now on the D.E.W. line by Okanagan Helicopters Ltd. is $264,960.
With respect to part 2, the value of the contract being carried out by Okanagan Helicopters Ltd. as of now on the Pine Tree line is $742,900, with Okanagan Helicopters Ltd. being the prime contractor and Wheeler Airlines (1960) Ltd. being its subcontractor for the provision of required fixed wing air transportation services in the amount of $103,500, included in the total figure which I have just given.
Both these contracts cover the period July 1, 1960, to June 30, 1961.


1.	Has the government made any offer to the government of British Columbia to share the cost of supplementary allowances paid to recipients of the old age pension?
2.	If so: (a) on what date was any such offer made? (b) what portion of the said supplementary allowances was offered? (c) was the offer accepted by the government of the province of British Columbia, and have any such payments been made; and, if so, what are the details?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is as follows.
1.	The federal government has always been prepared to share, under section 8 of the unemployment assistance agreement, in additional relief payments to recipients of old age security pensions as well as to recipients of old age assistance, blind persons allowances and disabled persons allowances. To be shareable, such payments have to be made on the basis of an individual assessment of need which takes the requirements as well as the income of an applicant into consideration. British Columbia began making payments on this basis, effective September 1960, and these are being shared by the federal government.
2.	(a) The answer I have already given covers this point.
(b)	The unemployment assistance agreement under which the payments are being made authorizes the federal government to reimburse the province to the extent of 50 per cent of its assistance payments.
(c)	The province has been gradually transferring recipients from its supplementary allowance program under which eligibility was based on a means test, to its supplementary social allowance program which is based on a needs test. This progressive transfer is reflected in an increase in shareable amounts in the claims submitted each month. Provincial supplementary social allowance payments to old age security recipients included in reimbursement claims were $92,041 in September, $119,975 in October and $147,561 in November, the last month for which complete figures are available. The number of persons assisted in each of these months was 5,557; 7,170 and 8,774 respectively. It is anticipated that the number of persons covered by this program will increase for some months because of the continuing transfer of persons from supplementary allowances. If the above figures for old age security recipients are added to the figures for recipients of the three above mentioned assistance programs, the total federal and provincial payments for the months of September, October and November 1960 are
Starred Questions
$117,736, $155,718 and $192,182 and the numbers assisted are 7,033; 9,175 and 11,275.
Total federal payments to the province for the four programs for the three months in question were $247,079.


1.	What amount has been paid by way of fees to Mr. R. A. C. Henry, Montreal, consulting engineer, for his services in connection with the St. Lawrence seaway, between August 1, 1952, and September 30, 1954?
2.	What amount did he receive annually, and for each working day?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to parts 1 and 2 is that	order	in council P.C. 4041 of 13
September, 1952,	authorized payment of a
retaining fee of $2,000 per annum and $100 per day to Mr. R. A. C. Henry for his services as consulting engineer, St. Lawrence seaway project. Remuneration was paid as follows; For	the	period	from	1	August,	1952	to31	July, 1953	
$20,450For	the	period	from	1	August,	1953	to31	July, 1954	
22,050For	the	period	from	1	August,	1954	to30	September,	1954	
2,100Total	
$44,600


1.	What is the value of contracts directly held by Okanagan Helicopters Ltd., with the Defence Production Department?
2.	Were the contracts awarded to Okanagan this year alone through public tenders?
3.	What is the total value of contracts awarded to Okanagan since its incorporation by the Defence Production Department?
4.	When Okanagan was awarded the army establishment contract, did it possess and have available for the contract the Sikorsky-58 as required bf specifications?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is as follows:
1.	$1,033,500.
2.	No.
3.	$6,605,797.89.
4.	No.


Did the Minister of Finance at any time receive from Mr. John Bassett, publisher of the Toronto Telegram, a suggestion that the government should seek the resignation of the governor of the Bank of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is, not in any formal sense. I understand that the

Starred Questions
Toronto Telegram believes and has said that it would be, in its view, in the public interest that the governor should resign. I have no doubt that this also reflects the views of the publisher.


['Question stands.']
Mr. Speaker, the communications between the governor of the Bank of Canada and the Minister of Finance have always been regarded as privileged.


1.	Did the Minister of Finance ask the governor of the Bank of Canada to take steps to reduce interest rates on any occasion since June 21, 1957?
2.	If so, on what occasions?
3.	Did the governor refuse to accede to any such requests?
4.	If so, which ones?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to this question is the same as that given to the previous one.


1.	Has the Bank of Canada a contributory pension plan for its staff?
2.	When was this plan established?
3.	Is any contribution made to the pension plan from the federal treasury?
4.	Is Mr. J. E. Coyne a contributor to the pension plan?
5.	If so, when did he begin to contribute, and what percentage of his salary has he contributed in each year since that date?
6.	Is there any statutory authority for the supervision of the pension fund of the Bank of Canada by the Minister of Finance or any other minister, and, if so, what is the authority?


Mr. Speaker, of course some of this information is not in the possession of the government, but I will endeavour to obtain from the Bank of Canada such information in order to give a complete answer.


Question stands.


Motion No. 146-Mr. Howard:
For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, and other documents exchanged between the government or any member thereof and the governor of the Bank of Canada since January 1, 1960, relating to fiscal policies of the government and the Bank of Canada and to the matter of pension arrangements for the governor of the Bank of Canada.
Mr. Speaker, communications passing between the government and the governor of the Bank of Canada have always been regarded as privileged and confidential. That status of such communications was confirmed by the governor at various times, as late as last March. The fact that this week the governor has broken that confidence by releasing a memorandum in what must be regarded as a serious impropriety is no reason why the government or parliament should follow him in that impropriety. It would be intolerable and indeed impossible to carry on public business on any basis except that exchanges of views between the government and its advisers are given and received in strict confidence.


Mr. Speaker, I regard much of what the minister has said as irrelevant because-


Order.


Order. The hon. member has probably not recalled that the motion is not debatable. It is in order for the minister to state an objection to the motion. The minister's objection was perhaps rather longer than usual, but it is not a debatable motion.


Mr. Speaker, I think the statement made by the minister involves the privileges of the house.


No.


I think I can satisfy Your Honour very briefly that it does involve the privileges of the house. In his statement last week the minister has chosen to make remarks about these communications before any of them have been released by Mr. Coyne. Since the minister has chosen to make those statements, it seems to me the house is entitled to be in possession of the documents.


The house has a decision to make as to whether or not it wishes to order the production of the documents. In view of the explanation of the minister does the hon. member wish to drop or proceed with the motion?

Division


In view of the explanation of the minister there is even more reason to put the motion.


Motion No. 147-Mr. Benidickson:
For a copy of any letters or documents, memoranda, etc., written to or received from, since July 1, 1960, the governor of the Bank of Canada referring to a possibility of his resignation from his position in the Bank of Canada as governor.
Mr. Speaker, my observations in respect to the last motion apply to this motion as well.


Mr. Speaker, in respect to this motion a very obvious matter of privilege arises of which I should like to speak.


Order. I fail to see how any matter of privilege arises, but if the hon. member has a matter of privilege perhaps he will state it.


Mr. Speaker, I think the matter of privilege is very obvious in this instance, because this motion differs very pointedly from the last, as the relative subject has reference to the resignation of this officer.


Order. Would the hon. member indicate how a matter of privilege arises out of the proposal of a motion?
90205-6-430

Division


Mr. Speaker, it arises because parliament by statute, in this case, regarding the matter of resignation, has authority under the Bank of Canada Act-


Order. The matter before this house is a motion which calls for a decision by this house as to whether or not it will call for the production of the papers mentioned. There is no question of privilege arising out of this normal procedure involving a decision to be made by the house as to whether it will call for production of the documents specified.
Those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


Those opposed to the motion will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the nays have it.
And more than five members having risen:


Call in the members. Is it agreed that the members are in?


Agreed.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether the view expressed in this

house on four occasions by the Secretary of State for External Affairs on nuclear testing, namely "Our position is very clear; we are against nuclear tests, period", and as he added on July 15 last, "with or without an international control", still represents the policy of the Canadian government.


Mr. Speaker, I think I answered that question yesterday.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister inform the house whether there is any foundation for a report in the press that the government of the United States has been in touch with the government of Canada respecting the findings of the royal commission on publications?


Mr. Speaker, in reply to the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre I would say that on June 19 the government of the United States communicated with the Canadian government in regard to two of the recommendations contained in the royal commission report and asked for the opportunity of consultation with regard thereto.


May
I ask the Minister of Finance a question supplementary to the one just asked by the hon. member for Moose Jaw-Lake Centre. In view of the economic philosophy advanced in certain portions of the minister's budget speech last night to assist the development of more Canadian owned industry, why was there no mention of the royal commission report on publications?


Order. I am not sure that the hon. member's question is one asking for factual information. It would seem to me to be more appropriate to raise it in the budget debate.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Was it as a result of the minister's failure to complete consideration of the Clark report that no mention was made of it in the budget speech last night?
90205-6-430J
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order. The hon. member seems to be advancing an opinion in the form of a question. I suggest that hon. members bring these matters before the house when the budget debate is on.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the widespread interest in the province, will the minister advise the house whether he will be in a position to present the report on the study of a ferry service to the east coast of Newfoundland before the end of June, 1961.


Mr. Speaker, as I have indicated before, this matter is under very active consideration and I hope to be able to make a further statement some time in the summer.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Finance whether he has yet come to any conclusion in the consideration he said he would give to the question of whether the memorandum of economic policies of the governor of the Bank of Canada of last February should be tabled?


Mr. Speaker, I think the observations I made this morning are a complete answer to the question put forward by the hon. gentleman. I refer to my comments on the nature of communications passing between the governor of the Bank of Canada and the Minister of Finance.


Now that this document has become public, may I ask the Minister of Finance whether he would object to any hon. member of this house tabling it?


Mr. Speaker, it is not for any one member of the house to say whether a document ought or ought not to be tabled. This is a matter for the house, but the hon. member seems to have a copy of it. At the moment I fail to see what purpose would be served by tabling a document which when it was sent by the

Inquiries of the Ministry governor of the Bank of Canada to the Minister of Finance last February was a confidential communication-


It is now a public document.


-and has never ceased to be that so far as any understanding on my part or on the part of the government is concerned. The disclosure of that document was a very serious impropriety on the part of the governor of the Bank of Canada, and the hon. member is now asking that a document that came into his hands and the hands of other members of the house as the result of an act of impropriety on the part of the governor of the Bank of Canada should be made part of the records of this house. I do not think the house wishes to be a party to breaking down the confidential nature of communications in this manner.


In view of the long answer given by the Minister of Finance, may I ask him whether he does not think there was a good precedent in the act of the Prime Minister in tabling a confidential, secret government report?


Mr. Speaker, may I just rise on a question of privilege and simply say that the hon. gentleman makes a statement which is completely false.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister says I made a statement that was completely false. Does Your Honour regard that as a proper parliamentary term?


Order.


In any event, I say the records of this house show that the Prime Minister did table a document which was confidential and intended only for the scrutiny of members of the government of the day.


Mr. Speaker, I am rising on a question of privilege affecting every hon. member of this house, and arising out of the proceedings that have just taken place. My question of privilege is that there is a precedent in this house for the tabling of documents submitted as confidential reports to another government, and that precedent was created by the Prime Minister on the 20th of January, 1958, in the most outrageous act ever performed in this parliament.


Order.


Another picayune observation.


Order. The discussion appears to me to be completely out of order. It is a reflection on a decision taken by the house. The question which initiated the discussion was also out of order, because the tabling of a document is by leave of the house, not by leave of the Minister of Finance. I appreciate that the question was whether he had any objection, but it seems to me that as this is a matter for the house and, as a decision has been taken, it is improper to debate the matter. In any event, the tabling of that document would be a matter for decision of the house.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Finance a question not related to the document which has just been discussed. Have there been letters between him and the governor of the Bank of Canada relating to the subject of resignation other than those that have been made public by the governor of the bank?


I am not aware of any, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I beg leave to table a document which has been distributed to the press and to members of the house, namely the statement of the governor of the Bank of Canada of February 16, 1961.


He still thinks he is a minister.


I am not sure that the hon. member is following a sound precedent, but in any event if a document that is not a public document or one required to be tabled by public law is to be tabled, it will have to be by leave of the house. Pending any other conclusion on this point, I shall ask the house whether it gives leave to the hon. member to table the document. Those in favour will say yea.


Yea.


Nay.


I hear some protests and therefore-


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. The document which I have tabled and in connection with which I thought I had obtained leave-*


Oh, oh.


[DOT]-is a document that has been issued to the public of Canada, has been referred to in our debates during the past few days, and has been distributed by the governor of the Bank of Canada. The

governor of the Bank of Canada, according to the Minister of Finance-and he has good authority for his statement in view of the Bank of Canada Act-is responsible to parliament. As the governor has issued this statement and made it public, then surely, if it has been referred to in committees of the house as it was yesterday, if it has been referred to in debates in this house, in the light of the reluctance of the Minister of Finance to table it himself, a private member, in respect of a matter involving the authority of parliament in relation to the governor, has the right to table a document which has now become public.
If this contention is not accepted we are put in the absurd position of seeing this statement which vitally concerns our discussions printed in extenso by the newspapers, as it has been, while at the same time we are denied something which is open to the press, television and radio services of our country. We would be denied access to this document in the official manner which our practice provides. In respect for the Minister of Finance it was proper that we should ask him first of all to table this statement, but since he is reluctant to do so notwithstanding the fact that it is a public document and as the governor is responsible to parliament I submit to you, sir, with great respect and much confidence in this view, that we have the right to table this document and we do not have to ask the house for leave to do so in view of this situation. If we are denied this right, which you have appropriately placed before the house by way of direction, Mr. Speaker, let the record be clear that we were denied that right as the result of action taken by an intransigent government.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, we have listened to the hon. gentleman make a statement which he himself knew was ridiculous when he made it. Indeed, when he makes such statements I study him very carefully, not by way of example but simply to observe the manner in which he makes these presentations. He seems to have forgotten that he is not on the treasury benches any longer, that four years ago today an event took place that he should not yet have forgotten.


Order.


You allowed the hon. member to go on.


I take it the Prime Minister is speaking to the question of privilege, and I suggest that he address his remarks to
Inquiries of the Ministry that point. It may be no question of privilege at all, but it was put forward as a question of privilege.


I would simply point out this, if I might do so shortly, and follow a course that the hon. gentleman never follows. What he has done has simply constituted a breach of the privileges of the house.


Cite your authorities.


I see no question of privilege in what the hon. member for Essex East has put forward as a question of privilege. I had some doubts about the right to submit the document at all but I am clear that the house controls what goes on the table. Unless it has prescribed that documents be laid on the table by act of parliament-as certain documents are laid on the table in the ordinary course of events-when hon. members wish to place a document on the table, it is by leave of the house. That leave has not been given.


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, may I ask whether the effect of your ruling in this case is that any member of the house can prevent the tabling of any document proposed by any member of the government?


No, that is not the effect of my ruling. It is not unanimous consent that is required, in my view. It is a matter for the house to decide in the usual way by a majority.


Mr. Speaker, there is another aspect of this problem. You have said that I must have leave to table this document. Your Honour, of course, is aware that under revised procedures many documents now are automatically tabled without any leave being sought of this house. In order that I would not be in contempt of parliament I would ask you if I will have the right now or at adjournment to table this document by handing it to the Clerk, as government members continually do without any resort to parliament at all.


The question is a rather important one, of course, because if it were open to any hon. member without leave to place documents on the table of the house and make them parliamentary papers, there would be no control by the house. The citation in Beauchesne's fourth edition with regard to tabling papers is No. 209, which states as follows:
Papers are laid before the house in pursuance of
(1)	Provisions of an act of parliament;
(2)	An order of the house;
(3)	An address to the crown;
(4)	The command of the crown;
(5)	Standing orders of the house.
There are, of course, other instances in which the house asks for possession of papers.
6818	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry For example, where they are referred to in debate and are quoted, an hon. member may insist that the documents be brought before the house. There is a citation on that point. However, that is not the issue today and I think I need not trouble the house with that point, but it will be found in Bourinot's fourth edition at page 245.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Finance this question in view of the act of the Minister of Agriculture this morning when he moved to refer the report of the Canadian wheat board to the committee on agriculture. In view of the action taken by his colleague will the minister not agree to table the report of the governor of the Bank of Canada and have it referred to the banking and commerce committee?


Mr. Speaker, do you intend to allow the time of the house to be taken up with this daily question? The answer remains the same as it has been now for days and days.


The minister does not want to follow the example of his colleague.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Acting Minister of National Revenue if he has been able to find out yet whether in fact an inspector of the income tax department did make an investigation at the Jean Talon hospital in Montreal?


Mr. Speaker, I am informed that any matters of this sort have always been considered completely secret, and that it would be against good public practice to discuss the tax affairs of any particular taxpayer.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I did not ask the minister about the affairs of any particular individual. I merely asked whether it was a fact that a tax inspector had conducted an investigation at that hospital, and I was very careful not to talk about any individual file. Surely the question of fact could be determined.


Order. The hon. member might be correct in making sure that his question was understood, but not in complaining about or debating the answer.


Can the minister answer the question?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister a question. Now that the budget has been presented, is he in a position to inform members of the house whether it is the intention of the government to ask parliament to recess during the months of July and August?


Mr. Speaker, after discussion between the house leader and representatives of the opposition and the third party, I will be able to speak with some degree of authority, namely the authority of representatives of all parties in the house.


The house, resumed from Tuesday, June 20, consideration in committee of Bill No. C-113, to amend the National Energy Board Act- Mr. Hees-Mr. Flynn in the chair.
When we adjourned yesterday we were considering clause 3.
On clause 3-Review of orders.


The amendment contained in clause 3 defines more specifically the powers of the board to change, alter or vary orders, certificates or licences issued by it. In exercising its functions the board differentiates between orders, certificates and licences. The amendment also provides expressly that no assignment or transfer of such a certificate or licence is effective until approved by the board and the governor in council, and that in approving any such assignment or transfer the board, with the approval of the governor in council, may attach such terms and conditions as it considers appropriate in the circumstances. This amendment would become important only if on proclamation, pursuant to section 87, imports and exports of oil were made subject to licence. The amendment itself removes from section 20 the present requirement that the board would have to hold a public hearing in every case involving the issuing-


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Chairman, I am wondering whether the minister is not referring to clause 4 of the bill. Clause 3 is now before the committee, and it relates to section 17 of the act.


That is quite right. I have gone on to section 4. I am sorry but I did not notice that.


We are on clause 3.


Since this clause relates to rather extensive power and authority in the board to change, alter or vary a certificate or licence issued by it, perhaps this is an opportunity for me to make a remark I desired to make.
As to the wording of the clause itself, I have no particular comment. I think the section in the bill being amended required some clarification. However, I wanted to take this opportunity to point out what I think is one weakness, not only in connection with this clause but in connection with the bill generally, and it is this. The bill was introduced in the house the day before yesterday and the printed copies were available yesterday. At this stage of the session I am prepared to go ahead on that basis, but it seems to me that since these amending clauses are nearly all administrative or having to do with the administrative powers of the board, they are of such a nature that there should have been an opportunity between first reading and second reading for their circulation to the industry.
Those mainly concerned in the industry with this type of administrative problem are the oil and gas firms which have their offices and places of business mainly in Toronto, Calgary and Edmonton. This bill can only be available in their offices today. I just want to place on record my regret that it was found necessary to proceed in this way. If there is any explanation as to why the bill itself was not introduced in the house some days or weeks ago so that there could be a delay between first reading and second reading, I wish the minister would give such explanation.


It was a slip up which I very much regret, Mr. Chairman. I quite agree with the hon. member that it would have been most desirable to have a longer period elapse between first reading and second reading. I am sorry that procedure has not been possible. I can assure him that steps are now being taken to see that this kind of thing does not happen in the future on bills in general.


In the meantime the difficulty is that legislation, once imbedded in the statutes, has a habit of staying there unamended for some time. There may be items in the clauses that were never intended by the government or would never have been permitted to pass by the opposition had they known about them. The amendments are of a nature that do not involve great questions of principle but may involve some inconvenience to the industry. I raise the point now and I hope in the future the minister will take more care in these matters to see that some better practice is followed.
National Energy Board Act
It is interesting that the rules of the United Kingdom parliament at one time I believe, required the lapse of ten days between first and second reading of a bill. I think that rule has long since disappeared. Probably it is not desirable that it be a rule of the house, but it is certainly a desirable practice in legislation of this type, where the subject matter with which we are dealing involves somewhat complex matters of administration on the part of the national energy board rather than great matters of principle.


Mr. Chairman, I might just add that the principle underlying these amendments was discussed with the responsible ministers of the following provinces; British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Quebec. In the province of Ontario the minister was not available and discussions were held with the deputy minister. Those are the provinces really affected by the National Energy Board Act and, as I say, the principle underlying these amendments-


Some of the sections.


-has been discussed with responsible people in those provinces.


Mr. Chairman, I support in general the remarks made by the hon. member for Ottawa West. The minister has just mentioned that in this case there was a discussion with ministers of the provinces directly concerned and the deputy minister of Ontario, and they generally expressed agreement with the amendments to this measure. Is that correct?


That is correct.


Is it not fair to say the discussion would only be in connection with those amendments that affect provincial rights? Some of these clauses would be of no concern at all to provincial attorneys general.


That is correct. I was referring to the clauses affecting provincial rights.


Those are the clauses which would be of particular concern to them and possibly to some hon. members of the house without an explanation?


That is correct.


Clause agreed to.
On clause 4-Public hearings.
This amendment would become important only if by proclamation pursuant to section 87 imports and exports of oil were made subject to licence. The amendment itself removes from section 20 the present requirement that the board would have to hold a public hearing in every case involving the

National Energy Board Act issue, cancellation or suspension oi a licence for the importation or exportation of oil.
Oil, unlike gas, is not generally traded on a long term basis, and in the event that it did become necessary to licence the import or export of oil, the licence would be for a maximum period of one year and would probably be for a term of six months. There would undoubtedly be a large number of applications, and it would be virtually impossible for the board to hold a public hearing in each case.
The board informs me that it would be its intention to hold public hearings from time to time to give the industry an opportunity to make representations in regard to any regulation or formula which might be adopted to determine the method of computing the amount of crude oil or products which an applicant for an import or export licence would be entitled to. I also remind the committee that the governor in council would have to approve any licence to import or export crude oil or products.


I recognize that the practice would be, in the event of the import of oil, for licences to be granted only for a short term, although there is nothing in the act that I can see which prevents the national energy board, if it so desires, granting a licence for a very long term. There is no statutory protection on that point. However, I think it is reasonable that within the industry such licences, if granted, would be for a short term. Since they are for a short term, the method of public hearings is not feasible and would appear in many instances to be unreasonable in relation to the problem confronting the board with respect to possible oil import licences.
However, there are two problems that concern me. This amendment is made necessary by the reference to section 87 of the act, and would only become of real significance in the event that the governor in council took action under section 87 to bring the import of oil under the provisions of the act.
That raises, of course, the old point that was a point of real difference at the time the act itself was before the House of Commons. I refer to the argument that the governor in council should never have been given the power to take that arbitrary action. The authority to bring the import of oil under control in a nation that has wide trade interests, as this nation has, and a nation that is so dependent on trade, as this nation is, is a right which should never have been granted to the government without some need being demonstrated for the government to have that power. The need has not been demonstrated.
[Mr. Hees.l

While I do not want to open up the whole argument again, I for one persist in my view that this arbitrary authority should never have been given to the government, and that any government seeking to take such drastic action in respect of a commod