Mr. Speaker, this being the date on which the birthday of Her Gracious Majesty Queen Elizabeth II is celebrated, we in this house will show our devotion by carrying on with business as usual. However, with a view to giving tangible evidence of our affection and devotion to Her Majesty, the Acting Leader of the Opposition, the hon. member for Laurier, and myself suggest that with your leave the members stand and sing the first verse of "God Save the Queen".
Whereupon the members of the house rose and sang
God Save the Queen EXPORT CREDITS INSURANCE ACT


that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Export Credits Insurance Act to provide that the two hundred million dollar limit of liability specified in section 21B of the act, now applicable to both contracts of insurance entered into by the corporation under section 21 and instruments guaranteed by the corporation under section 21A, be made applicable solely to contracts of insurance entered into under section 21; and further to provide a separate limit, in the amount of two hundred million dollars, on the liability of importers under outstanding instruments guaranteed by the corporation under section 21A.


Motion agreed to.
that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Judges Act and the Exchequer Court
Act, to provide one additional puisne judge of the Exchequer Court of Canada and to provide salaries for such additional judge of the exchequer court, for two additional puisne judges of the Superior Court of Quebec, for one additional judge of the Court of Appeal for British Columbia, for two additional Ontario county court judges and for one additional Alberta district court judge.


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 128-Mr. Meunier (for Mr. Deschatelets):
For a copy of the complete list of all railway services, discontinued in Canada by the Canadian National Railway Company and the Canadian Pacific Railway Company, since July 1, 1957.
(Translation):
Mr. Speaker, I have spoken to the mover of this motion, and he told me that he would be satisfied if he could obtain a list of the passenger trains which have been dropped. In that case, I have no objection to the adoption of the motion.
(Text):


Would the minister mind repeating his statement; the interpretation system is not working.


I have had a chat with the mover of this motion and he has agreed to limit it to the list of passenger services. With this understanding there is no objection to the motion.


Subject to the alteration to which the hon. member has agreed, and which has been explained by the minister, is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 129-Mr. Howard:
For a list of the names of documents to which the public has access, with bibliographic references, which were used or perused by the combines investigation branch in its inquiry regarding the selling and pricing policies of certain pharmaceutical houses in respect of new types of drugs.
We can accept the motion of the hon. member for Skeena for a list of the names of documents

Motions for Papers
to which the public has access, with bibliographic references, which were used or perused by the combines investigation branch in its inquiry regarding the selling and pricing policies of certain pharmaceutical houses in respect of new types of drugs. In so doing it should be made clear that the list of documents will be those to which the public and the director alike have access, but the disclosure of this list is not to be taken as any indication that they do or do not form a part of the statement of material filed with the restrictive trade practices commission by the director. The appropriate list is being prepared and will be made available as soon as it is ready.


Is the hon. member prepared to-


I did not hear any qualifications with respect to the motion, Mr. Speaker, merely an explanation that is was not to be taken that this list implies that any of the material is in the statement; that is all.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion, subject to the explanation given by the parliamentary secretary to the Minister of Justice?


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 130-Mr. Howard:
For a copy of all current contracts between the Departments of National Defence and of Defence Production and the Canadian Marconi Company.
Mr. Speaker, I wish this motion to stand for the time being.


Stand.
Motion stands.


Motion No. 131-Mr. Meunier (for Mr. Lessard):
For a copy of the memorandum from the authorities of the city of Montreal, and all correspondence dealing with the project of building an east-west elevated highway on the Canadian National Railways property along the St. Lawrence river in Montreal.
Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 132-Mr. Pickersgill:
For a copy of all communications exchanged since July 1, 1960, between the Dominion Steel and Coal Company, or any of its subsidiaries on the one hand, and any member of the government or

the dominion coal board on the other, regarding the possible closing of any of the coal mines in Nova Scotia.
Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
May I
direct a question to the Minister of Finance. Is it a fact that in a letter to the Minister of Finance on January 13, 1961, four days before the Columbia river treaty was signed in Washington on January 17, the premier of British Columbia warned the government that British Columbia could not agree to the financing aspects of the treaty and therefore would not be a party to the treaty?


Mr. Speaker, a letter was received from the premier of British Coumbia on the 17th, I think it was. I am speaking from recollection, having in mind the date of the treaty. If I recall correctly the treaty was signed in Washington on a Tuesday, and this letter arrived either that day or the day before. It could hardly be correctly construed, I think, in the manner in which the hon. member has construed it, in the light of the negotiations which had taken place up to that time between the government of Canada and the government of British Columbia.


Would the minister table the letter from the premier, a part of which is quoted in the Vancouver Province of May 17, 1961?


I will certainly be pleased to table the letter or any others for which there is consent of both governments.


Would the minister inform the house if the receipt of this letter did not cause the government some concern at that time?


The letter arrived just at about the time of the signing of the treaty, and the signing of the treaty had been preceded by extended negotiations on a tripartite basis. British Columbia had been a party to the discussions which had proceeded between the governments of the United States and Canada. They were fully in accord with everything that was taking place in that regard. The letter which has been referred to was not interpreted as changing the situation in that respect, because the government of Canada was simply proceeding in the way that had been agreed upon by all three governments in the course of the discussions. There was no occasion at that time for any

disagreement or alteration of what had been accepted by all parties as a firm understanding among them.


Did the minister not state, as affirmed by the premier of British Columbia, that the letter was received before the treaty was signed?


The letter was received in Ottawa before the treaty was signed in Washington by, I think, a matter of a few hours.


On the orders of the day:
1 should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. There is a press report this morning that the prime minister of Nigeria has accepted an invitation to visit the United States from July 25 to August 3. I wonder whether Canada has sent a similar invitation to the prime minister, or whether such an invitation will be sent?


Mr. Speaker, the prime minister of Nigeria, as the head of one of the outstanding commonwealth countries, will, as he realized even before this hour, be a welcome visitor to Canada at all times.


In the light of the Prime Minister's statement, can we take it that such an invitation will be extended?


As a matter of fact, an invitation was extended when the Minister of Finance represented this country in Nigeria last October at the time of the independence celebrations, and the hon. gentleman's suggestion is just a little late. The prime minister of Nigeria said at that time that whenever it was possible to come he would certainly do so.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Agriculture. It is based upon a question asked of the Acting Prime Minister by the Leader of the Opposition, and will be found at page 4945 of Hansard:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Acting Prime Minister whether he has any comment to make upon a statement reported to have been made by the Minister of Agriculture in Vancouver yesterday to the effect that perhaps Canada should have recognized the de facto government of red China right from the start; that the Chinese are
Inquiries of the Ministry dedicated people, and that in his grain trade dealing with them recently he had found them most anxious to increase their trade with Canada but would do nothing that would hurt Canadian producers.
The Acting Prime Minister replied that he had not seen the report and that perhaps comment might wait until the return to the house of the Minister of Agriculture. Now that the minister has returned from his peregrinations on Vancouver island-


Where is the Leader of the Opposition?


-I would ask him if this statement on red China represents a new declaration of policy on the part of the government, and whether he proposes to enunciate this new policy in the parliament of Canada.


I was on Vancouver island last week. While there I visited the agricultural exhibition, the city of Victoria and certain farming areas. In the course of my other wanderings I went to the side shows where they show various freaks and so on, and I saw a great big booth there where they were showing pictures of the Leader of the Opposition-


On a point of order, the minister should withdraw that remark. It was unparliamentary in every sense of the word.


I thought it was certainly not in accordance with our practice to make comments of that kind as an answer to the question, but I do not think it would be unparliamentary.


Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. I was just commenting on the extraneous remarks made by the hon. member for Essex East. When I was in Vancouver I was asked a question about recognition of red China. I pointed out that this involved a matter of government policy, and that I had no comment to make. However, I reminded the reporter that this question had been discussed in the House of Commons in 1949, and if any person cares to refer to page 1928 of Hansard for November 17, 1949 he will find these observations by the then minister for external affairs-


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I am sure you would agree that this has nothing to do with the question. The Minister of Agriculture has been asked to comment on a statement which he is reported to have made outside this house. He can either say he was misquoted, or that he was correctly reported-
5142	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry


The answer you want to hear.


Mr. Speaker, would you protect me against the member for Brome-Missisquoi?


I am not sure how much protection the hon. member needs, but I should be glad to ask for the co-operation of the house while he puts his point of order. I think there is something in the point made by the hon. member for Essex East, and the answer is assuming the character of a debate rather than a statement of fact. If I may use a word employed by the hon. member for Essex East, there was a certain amount of peregrination both in the question and in the answer. If the minister could answer briefly, perhaps he would do so.


I was just pointing out in answer to the question exactly what I said at this news conference. I pointed out that my memory went back to a debate in this house in 1949, and to what the minister of external affairs of that day had said and what Mr. St. Laurent had said I referred to the views they had expressed as reported on page 1928 of Hansard-


Mr. Speaker, the remarks of the hon. gentleman now clearly indicate their false character.


Oh.


The minister has just said that he spoke to a reporter referring to page so and so of Hansard. He will not expect this house to accept that as a correct statement.


It seemed to me the minister was endeavouring to answer, and I think he should be given the opportunity.


Naturally I did not have the exact page in my memory, but my memory was accurate. I should like to quote these words, spoken by the secretary of state for external affairs of that day:
As far as trade with China is concerned, there is no argument on that score. Nothing can be more important to Canada than building up trade with the Far East, including China; but one essential element in the development of trade with the areas over which the writ of the communist government now runs is to establish some kind of contact with that government. So naturally the promotion of trade is part of the problem of our relationship with the communist government in China, and the two cannot be separated.
I think that explains fully what I said.


May I ask the
minister this question. Did he say in Vancouver, as reported, that Canada should have recognized the de facto government of China right from the start?


Answer that question.


I do not think I can make it much clearer except by going on to read what Mr. St. Laurent said.


A supplementary question-*


Here it comes.


Order. Would members
please observe the rules so the hon. member for Trinity can pose his supplementary question.


The minister was reported to have said that on reflection he thought Canada should have recognized the government of red China at the outset. My question is this. Does the minister feel that the conduct of the red Chinese government over the years has justified the opinion he has expressed that, in retrospect, they should have been recognized at the outset?


Order. I think the hon. member, in asking the minister to express an opinion on that question which relates to an important matter of government policy, is not really within the practice of the house. Statements on a decision of that kind are not usually made in answer to questions on the orders of the day.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Prime Minister if he can say whether or not a cabinet committee has been established to deal with the threatened closure of three coal mines in Cape Breton, and whether the government has made an offer to Dosco to defray the cost of keeping the mines open?


As to the first part of the question, may I say that the hon. gentleman, with his wide experience as clerk of the privy council and also as minister, must realize that the establishment of cabinet committees is not usually brought to the attention of the House of Commons.
As to the second question, the answer was given the other day by the Minister of Labour.


I wonder if I could put a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that in the Halifax Chronicle-Herald of Saturday a statement appears under the heading "Coal; Cabinet Committee of Five Set Up"? The article states that a five member committee of the federal cabinet has been set up-


Order. The hon. member's question was, is the Prime Minister aware of a report in the newspaper, and then he proceeds to read the report. This is not in accordance with our practice, to read from a press report and ask whether or not the statement is correct. This is a practice that has not been accepted in the house. If there is a supplementary question arising out of the report, other than whether it is correct, perhaps the hon. member would put it.


I am drawing Your
Honour's attention to the fact that I did not ask whether the report was correct. I am asking the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the fact that there is a report. The question I was going to put to the Prime Minister was, is it the practice of the present government to make announcements in respect of cabinet committees to the press but not to parliament.


I simply answer the hon. gentleman in this way, that speculative articles are not usually given consideration on the orders of the day.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, may I say that the Prime Minister said, in reply to the question by the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillin-gate-


Order. The hon. member for Essex East, like all other members of the house, is obliged to accept answers given by the ministry, or no answer as the case may be.


I am not dealing with that; I am simply raising a point of order. The Prime Minister said it is not usual for the house to be informed of the existence of cabinet committees. This is a point the Prime Minister has made before. I am suggesting that it is contrary to our practice for the government to take the position that parliament cannot be informed about the existence of cabinet committees.


The hon. member's point of order is really, in effect, a discussion or a challenge of an answer given. There is no point of order that arises unless a member is entitled to indicate what kind of answer he should receive, and that is what the hon. member is doing. It is well established that members may ask questions for information. They cannot insist on an answer or insist on any particular kind of answer. A supplementary question is for the purpose of elucidating an answer, and that is as far as the practice permits. I trust the hon. member will be content with that.


May I, on a point of order, submit-
Inquiries of the Ministry


No, no.


I raise this as a question of privilege-


Order. There is no question of privilege arising out of a Speaker's ruling. I have given my ruling and the hon. member is in duty bound to accept it. I have heard his argument.


On the question of privilege-


Order.


If the hon. member is raising a question of privilege that does not arise out of my ruling, I will hear him; otherwise, no.


I am not speaking on a question of privilege arising out of Your Honour's ruling. I am simply raising a question of privilege in respect of the Prime Minister's statement which affects the privileges of all members in this house. When he says that this house is not entitled to know whether or not there are committees of the cabinet-


Order. The hon. member is endeavouring to arrive in another way at a prescription of the kind of answer the Prime Minister will give to his question. If the hon. member disagrees with the statement that is made, he will have opportunities in due course to debate the issue. However, no question of the privileges of the house arises by reason of the view expressed by the Prime Minister with respect to the information about cabinet committees.


May I ask Your Honour a question arising out of this matter?


No.


The question is this. Is it proper for a member of the treasury benches to give an answer such as that which the Prime Minister has given, although a statement similar to the one made by the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate is to be found in the Halifax Herald? That is the point upon which I am asking Your Honour's advice.


As I said, I am not judging the statement. My only responsibility is to see that the practice of the house is observed, and that practice is that the ministry may give such answers as they see fit to the oral question put to them at this point in our proceedings.


I should like to put a question to the Minister of Finance and ask him whether the government has offered any
5144	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry financial assistance to Dosco to keep the coal mines open, apart from subventions on the sale of coal.


The government, as the house was informed at the time, offered to pay subventions in what had up to that time been a non-subvention area, and this timely assistance on the part of the federal government enabled operations at three important mines to be carried on during the past winter and up to the present time. The house has been fully informed at all times of the financial arrangements which have been made in this regard with a view to continuing the operation of these mines and continuing the employment of these worthy coal miners of Cape Breton.


A supplementary question. Do I understand from the minister that no other financial assistance apart from subventions has been offered?


The hon. member is well aware of what has been reported to the house. This form of federal assistance appeared first of all in the form of subventions payable in the subvention area. That area was extended farther to the west over the past several years so that more Nova Scotia coal could come into Quebec and the western parts of Ontario. Last year this form of assistance was extended into what had been known up to that time as a non-subvention area.


More evasion.


It is not evasion at all. It is reminding the house in simple, factual terms of something which it has known all along but which the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate has forgotten, or wishes to forget and is now misrepresenting.


Could I ask the minister whether he is now repudiating what was said to the press by his colleague the Minister of Labour?


Mr. Speaker, what my colleague the Minister of Labour said to the press was the subject of comment on his part in this house several days ago in reply to a question. He made his position perfectly clear to every intelligent and adult member of this house, but not to the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the
[Mr. Pickersgill.)

Minister of Agriculture. My question is prompted and spurred by the interest of numerous people in the maintenance and development of the economic family farm. In view of the decision at a meeting held in Winnipeg on April 24 and 25 of leaders from all branches of agricultural production and marketing to proceed to establish a national farm policy research council, will the minister inform the house whether his department was represented at this meeting and what assistance, advice or guidance his department intends to offer in the establishment of this urgently required research council?


Mr. Speaker, at the time the government of Canada was examining into the question of a national agricultural program which was eventually announced in the house on August 30, 1958, by the Prime Minister, one of the gaps we discovered was some form of objective research into marketing and sociology. We set up an interdepartmental committee which recommended that some form of objective research group should be set up outside of the government and outside of the farm organizations.
At that time I approached several of the farm organizations in the west pointing out the need for this research group, and a group was set up among the farm organizations in the west which recommended that there should be a prairie agricultural economics research group. In the meantime the government of Manitoba, through its minister recommended, at the agriculture ministers' conference last October that there should be a research institute for all of Canada, and his government took the lead in calling a meeting of all governments and farm organizations for some time early this spring, which resulted in the meeting at the end of April that was mentioned by the hon. member.
At that meeting the government of Canada was represented by myself, with 11 officials from various departments, and a two day discussion took place. All the governments of Canada were represented, and all the farm organizations. A committee was instructed to prepare a plan by July 15 of this year which would be presented to the 11 governments and various farm organizations, and also to Agri-business. This report is due by July 15 of this year, at which time I would imagine the farm organizations will consult their organizations in full meeting and the agriculture ministers will deal with it either at the July meeting in Prince Edward Island or the November meeting here in Ottawa.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. My question is based upon a publication of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources entitled "This is the Arctic", and a statement which appears therein as follows:
Taking out the Eskimo girls individually, however, is looked on with extreme disfavour, and is the easiest way to get a fast, no expense paid trip south.
This publication is being distributed in Ottawa and other places. I wonder whether the minister could explain the significance of that phrase which appears in this departmental publication, in view of what he said the other day?


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that the hon. member has asked this particular question, because I feel there is sufficient continuing interest in the subject to make it necessary to provide more background about the matter than has been provided in answer to questions put in this house.
The particular publication to which the hon. member refers was designed as a popular treatment of the subject of human relationships north of the 60th parallel. During the past few years there has been tremendous development taking place in the northern part of Canada; the actual impetus began with the construction of the distant early warning line.


Mr. Speaker, I should not like to interrupt the minister, or object to what he is saying, but I understood him to say in his preliminary remarks that because of the continuing interest in this subject it could be more propitiously dealt with by a statement rather than by an answer to a question, and I am wondering now whether the minister is not making a statement which would be more appropriately made during motions.


Order. If the hon. member wishes to withdraw his question it can be disposed of very simply.


Mr. Speaker, you know very well that I have some reluctance about withdrawing questions.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. In the light of press reports to
90205-6-325
Inquiries of the Ministry the effect that Canadian Eskimos are living under certain disabilities, would the minister table in this house a list of the disabilities under which they are reputed to be living in comparison with the standards of other Canadians?


Mr. Speaker, in view of the questions asked by the hon. member for Cartier and the hon. member for Skeena, perhaps I could receive the permission of the house to revert to motions and make a statement which might cover the inquiries of both these hon. gentlemen.


Does the hon. minister have leave to revert to motions for the purpose of making a rather extended statement regarding this subject?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, at the time of the construction of the distant early warning line there was a rule against unnecessary contact with Eskimos. Many thousands of construction workers were rushed into the Arctic to complete the line in two years. In many areas of the north this was the first contact by the Eskimos with large numbers of people from south of the 60th parallel. Eskimos have low immunity to disease, and there was concern over the possibility of epidemics being brought in by construction workers from the outside, and also over the possibility of improper relations-I stress that word "improper"-that would have an adverse effect on the Eskimo people.
In March, 1955 the deputy minister of northern affairs and national resources wrote to the Western Electric Company, which was responsible for the construction of the D.E.W. line, regarding measures to protect the health and welfare of the Eskimos, and particularly with reference to reduction in the possibility of the spread of disease. When the agreement with the United States in respect of the
D.E.W. line was concluded in May, 1955, a clause was inserted designed to provide similar protection.
Conditions in the Arctic have changed remarkably in the past six years. As an indication of the government's current attitude, in 1959 a letter was sent to all government departments that have employees in the north, dealing with the question of relations with the indigenous population. There was no attempt whatever to curtail fraternization; indeed, the reverse is the case. The Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources has a number of employees, both male and female, who are Eskimos married to white persons or white persons married to Eskimos. I might add that D.E.W. line
5146	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry clauses have no application to the mid-Canada line, or the Canadian Marconi Company.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure we all appreciate and commend the original intention in this particular clause contained in the D.E.W. line contract, which was primarily designed for the benefit of the Eskimo population itself. The subsequent letter of 1959, to which the minister referred, in which it announced there should be no attempt to curtail fraternization or association, is also commendable. However, it appears on the surface that the Canadian Marconi Company has continued to place that no fraternization clause in the remainder of its contracts, which is quite contrary to the announced intention and attitude of this government, and quite contrary to that section of the bill of rights which claims that we have always had the right of freedom and association. It would seem to me that some steps should be taken to draw this to the attention of the Canadian Marconi Company so that in future discrimination such as now exists will not prevail.


Just to clarify the question I put to the minister which provoked his statement, I should like to draw to his attention the fact that I asked whether he would be good enough to list for the house those disabilities under which Eskimos live in comparison with the living rights of other Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I am happy to inform the hon. member that there are no disabilities as between the Eskimo population and the general population of Canada. There may have been some in existence in 1955, but I think our position has been clarified, without any possibility of misunderstanding by the circular letter which was distributed in 1959.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works arising from the minister's statement to this house of Saturday, which confirmed that house completions for the year to date are down each month as compared to last year, and that despite this reduction there were more unsold houses at the end of April-


Mr. Speaker, I am willing to answer any questions, but the hon. member is making a speech.


I could not hear the hon. member's question, and would ask him to repeat it.


Mr. Speaker, surely a good builder must prepare a good foundation. I said that my question arose from the minister's statement which confirmed that house completions this year to date are down each month as compared to last year, and that despite this reduction in the production of homes there were more unsold houses than a year earlier. Will the minister urge his colleagues to pursue fiscal policies which will make possible an early reduction of the-


Order. I have allowed the hon. member to lay the background to his question, but it appears that he is simply urging something and presenting an argument rather than asking for information. The practice of allowing questions on orders of the day is designed to assist members in getting urgent information rather than to present argumentative statements, which it seems to me the hon. member for Nipissing was doing. He was putting his case as an argument rather than in search of information.


Perhaps I can rephrase my question, Mr. Speaker. Will the minister confirm the fact that the abnormally high National Housing Act interest rate is being deliberately maintained until the government has had an opportunity of unloading Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation mortgages, permitting reinvestment at the same rate to protect the treasury at the expense of current borrowers?


Mr. Speaker, is it necessary to give an answer to a purely nonsensical question?


Another example of government arrogance.


You have certainly saved us from that kind of an answer.


You are going backward, like Alice in Wonderland.


Mr. Speaker, surely the
minister, with his experience, must have learned how to disagree without being disagreeable.


Order. The hon. member is not asking a question, as I understand it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. I should like to ask him whether he will now answer the question I asked him on May 10, 1961, which he took as notice, and which I repeated to the acting minister on May 17.


Mr. Speaker, I have studied the question asked me by the hon. member on May 10, and again to the acting minister on May 17, and in view of all the facts I feel I have nothing further to add to what I said on May 2.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to rephrase my question and draw this subject again to the attention of the minister. Will the minister apprise the house as to what rate of exchange he used in computing the dollar value of the contract; and I refer, of course, to the contract for wheat sales to communist China?


Mr. Speaker, that is the question I understood the hon. member directed to me on May 10, and to the Acting Prime Minister on May 17.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture arising out of the great interest in and need for the greatest possible use of the port of Churchill. Has the minister received representation from the Hudson bay route association suggesting that for the greater use of the port of Churchill, provision might be made for storage facilities for grain in Newfoundland for reshipment the year around?


The answer to that question is yes.


I wonder whether the minister would make some comment on that and say whether steps are being taken to provide such storage facilities.


Mr. Speaker, so far this has not entered into the field of government policy. It is true that there have been numerous discussions with various business groups dealing with the question of 90205-6-325J
22, 1961	5147
Canadian National Railways Act storage facilities on the south shore of Newfoundland. Up to now no government decision has been made. We have been trying to get from them certain information which they have promised to provide us.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
a question of the Minister of Defence Production which, in his absence on Saturday, I asked the Prime Minister. My question is this. In view of the statement reported in the press as having been made by the minister at Atholville, New Brunswick, on his recent visit there, that probably two bombs would destroy our defence industry, may I ask him whether the government or his department has any actual plans to decentralize defence industries in Canada and locate them in areas of high unemployment?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member for Laurier very well realizes, the government has no defence industry of its own. We depend on industry for our defence contracts. As the hon. member also well realizes, for economic reasons industry is concentrated in two large cities; otherwise the statement I made is according to the facts.
Concerning the question, are we doing anything to disperse defence industries, I stated and I repeat that all provinces have the right to have defence contracts within their boundaries.


that the house go into committee to consider Bill No. C-94, to amend the Canadian National Railways Act.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Flynn in the chair.
On clause 1-Number.


Is the minister going to make a general statement in connection with this matter?


No, Mr. Chairman.


Well, if that is the case, then I think I should like to bring to the attention of the minister the fact that from his side of the house during the discussion of this bill there have been a series of attacks upon the officers of the Canadian National Railways. If I understand the position of the

Canadian National Railways Act minister it is that he is responsible in parliament for the administration of the Canadian National Railways, and I would have thought the minister would have risen in his place to make some defence of both the president and the officers of the Canadian National Railways. I must say that has been done by another member on the government side of the house but I would have thought, in view of the charges that were directed against these men, that the minister would have risen in his place and made at least some comment in answer to those charges. I ask him whether he would not comment on those charges now.


Mr. Chairman, no such attacks, as my hon. friend calls them, have been made on this bill. At the present time we are discussing an increase in the number of directors; we are not discussing personalities, and at the moment I have nothing to add.


Well, of course we are not discussing personalities, but we are discussing the administration as effected by the directors of the Canadian National Railways. There has been more than one demand for the resignation of one of those directors.


Made in the discussion of this bill?


Yes.


Not in the discussion of this bill.


In connection with the very matter under discussion. I am asking whether the minister will not make some comment on those charges?


Shall clause 1 carry?


No, Mr. Chairman. I ask the minister whether Mr. Donald Gordon is in fact a director of the Canadian National Railways at the present time?


Mr. Chairman, the term of Mr. Donald Gordon as chairman and director of the C.N.R. expired on September 30 but, with regard to directors whose terms expired last September 30, section 6 subsection 4 of the Canadian National Railways Act provides that a director whose term of office has expired remains a director until his successor is appointed. Therefore Mr. Donald Gordon remains a director and is a director at the present time.


What the minister has just said raises a very important point. I do not think this committee should be asked to proceed any further with this bill until the minister tells us what the government's intention is with respect to Mr. Donald Gordon. We are asked to increase the number of
IMr. Chevrier.]

directors from seven to 12. Surely we are entitled to be told whether it is intended to continue Mr. Gordon's appointment as a director, or whether this is part of a device to get rid of him. I think, in view of the attacks that were made on Mr. Gordon by all but one of the Tory members who spoke in this house on this bill, the minister should clear up this point right away.


Mr. Chairman, may I just very briefly reiterate our party's support of this bill, although we have certain doubts whether it is going to be really successful; so much will depend upon the people who are appointed. We have left it to our colleagues of the Liberal party to raise the normal doubts about appointments made by the government.
I should like to comment on what has been said. It seems to me that the hon. member for Laurier and the hon. member for Bona-vista-Twillingate are confusing the contributions we have had on the estimates of the Department of Transport with the debate on this particular bill. I have heard a number of government supporters call for the resignation of Mr. Gordon, but it seems to me this was on the transport estimates.
I might take this opportunity to disavow what I was credited with in this debate the other night by the hon. member for Acadia, when he said that I had decided to call for Mr. Gordon's resignation because it was the smart and popular thing to do. I have to give credit for being the first to call for his resignation to the hon. member for Danforth who, a full year before I thought Mr. Gordon should go, was in the lists expressing his opinion in this matter. I am very pleased that a number of government supporters have also come to the view that the C.N.R. situation is such that it is time for a change in management. However, it seems to me that matter really has no relevance to this bill.
I should like to point out to the hon. member for Laurier that the minister has told us that the change being made by the bill is as the result of a recommendation last year by the committee on government railways, shipping and air lines. I suggest to the hon. member that if he really wants to raise the issue of Mr. Gordon and his position with the government, the place to raise it is in the committee when it meets this year. Maybe he will come to the support of those of us who hope that from that committee we will have a recommendation on the very point about which he is talking. We will hope that the government will act as quickly or even more quickly in regard to that recommendation than it did with regard to the recommendation of last year. I hope I have not been too

obscure in my reference to the kind of recommendation that I would hope will come from the committee this year.


The hon. member for Port Arthur has not been obscure, but he is a little bit off colour in so far as the method of procedure is concerned. It seems to me that the time to ask for information concerning a bill is when the bill is before the house. That does not preclude members from asking for information and dealing with the same subject matter when it comes before the committee on railways and shipping. However, when a bill is before the house which seeks to increase the number of directors of a crown corporation, whether it is Canadian National Railways or any other crown corporation, I think the house is entitled to know what the position is with reference to the other directors.
I am asking the minister now whether there are any other directors on sufferance in the same way that the information he has given indicates that the chairman and president is. He has stated that the order in council appointing Mr. Gordon expired on September 30, and that because of the section in the Canadian National Railways Act to which he referred Mr. Gordon is still in office although his term has expired. I should like to know the names of the other directors who are on sufferance, when their terms expired and what the intention of the government is respecting these other directors.
Before I sit down I should like to make one other point in connection with the matters under discussion now. There are seven directors of Canadian National Railways, and it is proposed by this clause to increase the number to 12. The hon. member for Port Arthur states that last year the committee made a recommendation to that effect. Whether or not there was a recommendation by the committee, the responsibility is that of the government. Whether or not the recommendation was unanimous, the responsibility is still that of the government. I take the position that it was not unanimous. I am not going to get into that argument again, but I think the minister owes it to the house to give us the names of those other directors who are on sufferance and to tell us why they have not been reappointed.


Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that the situation is a very simple one. I think the remarks made by the member for Port Arthur make sense. There will be a committee which will be considering the affairs of the railway and, as I say, I think what he said makes sense and is fair. The suggestion that we have got to engage in a review of the status and capacity of the other
22. 1961
Canadian National Railways Act directors and raise questions with regard to their status does not make sense to me and in my opinion is utterly irrelevant in considering this bill.


Mr. Chairman, it seems to me that one of the matters raised in discussion of the bill this morning cannot be passed over by the minister, by failing to reply. I do not agree with the hon. member who has just spoken that the House of Commons is not the place to discuss who shall be the directors of Canadian National Railways, and particularly what is to be done with the president of the railways.


Of course it is, but at
the proper time.


In the light of the attacks that have been made on the president by the member for Port Arthur, by a member who sits behind the ministry and by others, I believe it is not within the minister's prerogative to ignore this question. When a government servant is attacked in an way it is a tradition of our parliamentary system for the responsible minister either to concur in that attack, in which event the consequences are clear, or in the alternative to defend the person concerned.


The attack is out of order in this debate.


Whether or not the attack is out of order, it has been made.


It is not out of order.


Certainly it is.


Apart altogether from that, the observation of the hon. member who has just said that the attack is out of order is senseless. An attack has been made, and the minister cannot remain in his seat and not take a position one way or the other. That doctrine was laid down in the house by Sir Robert Borden and again in 1937 by Right Hon. R. B. Bennett with regard to an attack that had been made upon the head of the mounted police, Sir James MacBrien. The reply of the then minister of justice, Mr. Lapointe, which I do not have before me, stands out so vividly in my memory as to lead me to suggest to the minister that he will want to give careful consideration to the matter before refusing to speak.
The Canadian National Railways is an important part of the government's concern, so important that the president of the railway receives a salary twice that of the Prime Minister. This is an important operation conducted in the interests of the people of the country. The head of that railway has been attacked. He has been termed arrogant; he
5150	HOUSE OF
Canadian National Railways Act has been termed inefficient. Other characterizations have been made respecting him, and it is inconceivable that the Minister of Transport should allow these attacks to be made on a man who holds this important position. The minister might possibly be justified in refusing to say whether or not the government proposes to extend his term. Obviously that is a matter of government policy, although in view of the uncertainty I should think the minister would want to remove any doubt in that regard. But in so far as the attack made on the president of the Canadian National Railways is concerned, the minister cannot remain in his seat and fail to make a reply.
The hon. member for Port Arthur, exercising what he believes to be his best judgment-there may be some question in the context as to that-has made serious charges, a series of charges, against the president of Canadian National Railways. This attack has been concurred in by other members sitting behind the ministry, as well as members in other parts of this house. Are these charges valid? If they are valid, then of course the dismissal of the president should take place. If they are not valid, their invalidity should be exposed. There is no one who has a greater responsibility in that exposition than the Minister of Transport who, pleasantly, amiably, sits in his seat and refuses to defend a man whose defence can only be conducted properly by the responsible minister.
This is not a new practice for this government. We have had other discussions in which officials serving in public office have not been defended in this house when attacks have been made upon them by certain members of this house. The attacks made on the governor of the Bank of Canada should have prompted the Minister of Finance on several occasions to rise spontaneously either in defence or in repudiation of the governor of the Bank of Canada. In the latter instance, of course, there would have been a clear course for the government to follow. If the governor of the Bank of Canada has been attacked, he should be defended. If the president of the Canadian National Railways-


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Chairman, and at the risk of being spewed with insults by the hon. member for Essex East I would say he is not in order in talking about the Bank of Canada under these circumstances.


I agree with the hon. member, but we have finished with that now.


Order. I have been listening to the debate as it has been conducted so far with the question of relevancy in mind. I wanted to allow the hon. member to continue
[Mr. Martin (Essex East).)

in order to determine what direction the debate would take, if one theory or the other would prevail. I think the trend of the debate has just indicated that some ruling should be made on the question of relevancy.
When I was in the chair during the debate on second reading I expressed my view that the principle of the bill did not involve personalities, but only the number of directors. I should like to remind the committee of standing order 59, paragraph 2, which says:
Speeches in committee ot the whole house must be strictly relevant to the item or clause under consideration.
I cannot see that the possible reappointment of the present directors would have anything to do with this legislation. Furthermore, may I indicate to th