Order. By leave of the house may I table the cablegram which has been received from the president of the chamber of deputies of the parliament of Italy in acknowledgement of the cablegram which I sent in pursuance of a resolution unanimously passed by this house last Friday, and read to the house a translation of the cablegram dated Rome, March 22, 6 p.m.:
Hon. Roland Michener, Speaker of the House of Commons, Ottawa.
The telegram of greetings expressing the best wishes of the parliament of Canada on the occasion of the centenary of Italian unity was particularly welcome to me. On behalf of the chamber of deputies of Italy and in my own name may I request that you, sir, who are the honourable the Speaker, do accept the expression of sincere gratitude and most heartfelt good wishes for the prosperity of the Canadian people. I am, with highest consideration,
Giovanni Leone,
Speaker of the chamber of deputies.


Eighth and ninth reports of standing committee on standing orders-Miss Aitken.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to make an announcement to the house with regard to the municipal winter works incentive program. As of March 21, the latest figure which I have obtained from my department based on estimates submitted by more than 1,924 municipalities across Canada indicates that this program has exceeded by a substantial margin the target of jobs announced last fall.
At that time we expected to provide direct, on-site employment for some 83,000 persons and indirect employment for approximately the same number. I am pleased to be able to inform the house that as of March 21 this program has provided direct, on-site employment for more than 105,000 men, according 90205-6-206
to the figures supplied by the municipalities, and off-site employment for an estimated equal number of men.
This program, through intensive co-operation at the federal, provincial and municipal levels, launched municipal work projects during the winter months of a total estimated value of $259,520,713. It has become one of the most effective public works programs of its kind ever undertaken in this country, through co-operation at all levels of government. It is a program well accepted by everyone and given enthusiastic support.
As the house may be aware, the government has received a number of representations from individual municipalities, as well as the Canadian confederation of mayors and municipalities, requesting the continuation of the program beyond the cut-off date of April 30. As the house also knows, the program this winter commenced on October 15, six weeks earlier than usual. I should point out, Mr. Speaker, that ini recent weeks there have been severe storms accompanied by heavy snowfall in many parts of Canada, and this has affected the ability of municipalities to carry on their winter works projects.
In order that there will be no curtailment of employment as a result of untoward weather conditions, I am pleased to announce that the government has decided to extend the period for the municipal winter works incentive program to May 31.


Mr. Speaker, I have an announcement to make which is supplementary to that made by my colleague the Minister of Labour. I am pleased to inform the house that it has been decided to extend the winter works program in the national parks from March 31 to May 31, 1961. This will provide employment for 1,800 men at a cost of $1.6 million.
During the current season projects in the various national parks under the winter works program have involved an expenditure of $4 million. The program involves the construction of new picnic grounds, camp sites and other improvements to accommodate the increasing numbers of visitors to the parks.


Mr. Speaker, may I on behalf of this group say how pleased we are to learn that the expectations for the winter works program

Inquiries of the Ministry have been exceeded and that it is being extended. We hope that the Minister of Labour and the other ministers in the government will soon find it possible to bring in a program for the spring, summer and fall in addition to the winter so as to provide full employment for those who need it at the present time.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Labour arising out of the statement he just made in regard to the winter works program. Will the extension of the date for the winter works program exclude any of the projects now authorized under the program? I understand that on a previous occasion when the program was extended certain projects were eliminated. The reason given was that these projects would reasonably be carried out during the period covered by the program.


Mr. Speaker, offhand and without checking I would say that I see no reason why projects now under way that would carry over into the extended period of May should be eliminated. I should think they would be included.


I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour based on the announcement he made earlier this afternoon about the winter works program and the suggestion that 105,000 jobs had been provided in on-site and 105,000 in off-site work. Can the minister tell the house the length of employment on these jobs? How much work are we talking about? Has the minister's department the complete figures?


This represents 4,636,972 man days of work.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether the Prime Minister is in a position to give the house any information on the serious situation in Laos as reported in the press this morning.


Mr. Speaker, as the house knows, the situation developing in Laos is such that it commands the attention of people all over the world. I am aware of recent developments in the Laotian situation, and the government has been in continuing touch with

the other governments concerned. While Canada is not a member of SEATO, the regional collective security organization whose interests are most directly affected by developments in Laos, Canada has a particular interest in the Laotian problem arising from her membership in the international supervisory commission established under the Geneva agreement of 1954 and adjourned in
1958.	Mention has been made in the press of naval dispositions which are taking place in the Far East. I do not believe that they reflect anything more than normal measures of readiness in the situation as it exists.
Now I might say something regarding Canada's position on the particular problem itself. Canada is prepared to serve on a reconvened international supervisory commission should the governments concerned agree that conditions exist which would permit the commission to play a worth while and effective role. The reason there has been no decision so far to reconvene the international supervisory commission for Laos is that other possible alternative arrangements are being considered, such as a commission of neutral nations or an international conference as proposed by Prince Sihanouk of Cambodia.
These alternatives are still under consideration. Whatever type of international instrument may eventually be agreed upon, Canada continues to hope that circumstances will permit a negotiated settlement which will maintain the independence, the unity and the neutrality of Laos.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to address a question to the Prime Minister. I wonder if the Prime Minister would care to give the house any information on the position which Canada may take at the forthcoming conference of O.E.C.D., particularly in the light of the statement by President Kennedy that certain proposals for long term economic assistance will be put before that conference by the United States.


I think during recent discussions in the house full information was given on this matter, information as full as the government could then give. There is nothing in particular that I can add at this time which would in any way amplify what was said then.


A supplementary question. Can the Prime Minister tell the house whether Canada will be putting forth any specific

proposals at the forthcoming conference with regard to economic assistance?


Canada's stand on economic assistance and her record have been admirable. I know the hon. gentleman will not agree with that, but I think Canadians as a whole feel that the contribution which Canada is making in connection with measures to raise standards in other parts of the world is the equal of that of any other nation in the world. When I say that, I think our contribution to the Colombo plan, with the increases in the last few years, and the contributions in other fields to which Canadians have given their support do not require on the part of Canadians any attitude of uncertainty or lack of pride concerning what is being done.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. Has the minister received a communication from local 200 of the united automobile workers drawing to his attention lay-offs by the Ford Motor Company of qualified machine repairmen, while at the same time large machines from the plant have been sent to the United States for repair? If so, is the minister in a position to use his good offices to have this work done by Canadian workers presently laid off?


Today I received a copy of a letter from the people to whom the hon. member refers which had been addressed to the Minister of Finance.


A supplementary question,
Mr. Speaker. Will the minister look into the situation and see if there is any way in which he could arrange to have some of this work done here in Canada by Canadian workers?


Mr. Speaker, as I pointed out, this letter was addressed to the attention of the Minister of Finance, and I received only a copy of it. But I will follow up the matter to see what reply is given by the Minister of Finance.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Labour whether as a result of the offer he made in the letter he tabled on Friday last the employment service has yet found ,a job for Mr. Exelby of Hamilton.
90205-6-2064
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I am relieved to say that I have not been keeping track of that case of late.


Would the minister be good enough to inquire and inform the house tomorrow?


Orders of the day.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the minister inquire and inform the house tomorrow?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I could ask the Minister of Transport whether he has yet received any report from the Canadian National Railways concerning the question of that railway taking over from the Cumberland Railway Company the 4-mile spur line from Springhill to Springhill Junction. The minister will recall that this question was asked on February 17, at which time the minister indicated that he would refer the matter to the management.


Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to report at the moment, but I will investigate.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Revenue. Would the minister substantiate reports that the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation is recruiting personnel in the United Kingdom. If so, could the minister indicate the reasons for such recruitment at the present time?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member was good enough to send me notice of this question a short time ago. I have been unable to obtain the information from the corporation. However, I have grave doubts about recruitment taking place in the United Kingdom other than in respect of highly specialized personnel. I will obtain the information and advise the hon. member on this matter as soon as possible.

Inquiries of the Ministry ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Has the minister received any request from the attorney general of Ontario for the assistance of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police in investigating alleged charges that Mafia gambling interests have succeeded in bribing and corrupting provincial and local law enforcement officers?


Not
to my knowledge, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in reply to a question asked by the hon. member for Nipissing, as reported at page 2542 of Hansard of March 1, as to the number of starts made in the month of February, may I say we now have received the figures for housing starts up to the end of February, in municipalities of 5,000 population and over. These amount to 3,967 for the month of February, which is an increase over a year ago of 86.2 per cent for that month. These are the latest figures for 1961; up to the end of February, 7,861.
The hon. member and other hon. members of the house will be glad to hear that the figures up to March 17 for N.H.A. requests for loans have now increased to 9,937. In the corresponding period a year ago the figure was 1,473.


In view of the announcement made by the minister I wonder if I might put this question to him. The figure for last February was one of the lowest on record, at an annual adjusted rate of about 60,000, I believe, for that period. In view of this fact, and in view of the legislation recommended by some hon. members on this side and implemented a few months ago, does the minister not think he should go the full distance and reduce the N.H.A. interest rate, which is the main deterrent at this time?


Mr. Speaker, on the contrary, the record this year-and all we can control are the National Housing Act loans-has been almost unprecedented. We are having a magnificent year in housing compared with any other year except one.


Compared with last year.


Order. I think the hon. member went a good deal further than he should have gone with his last supplementary, and a further supplementary would be out of order.


Does the Minister of Public Works mean by "on the contrary" that the interest rates should be increased?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate would stick to yachts he would speak with greater authority.


The usual politeness.


Since the Minister of Public Works has the figures now for February, can he tell us the number of bank loans made in that month?


A magnificent record has been made in housing in spite of the fact that we have had little or no participation by the banks. Therefore the banks can use their money for commercial loans in the regular course of their business.


A supplementary question. Does the government contemplate taking any action which will encourage the banks to get back into the housing field?


If by that the hon. member means are we seeking to increase the borrowing rate from 6 per cent to 6| per cent, the answer is in the negative.


I mean lowering the N.H.A.
interest rate, as the minister well knows.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has his attention been drawn to the decision of the United Kingdom government, announced today, to continue trade preferences to South Africa after her withdrawal from the commonwealth, and does the government propose to follow the same course here?


We hope not.


Mr. Speaker, I did notice what had taken place in the British House of Commons and the statement made by the Prime Minister and I think as well by the Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations. I do not know whether it was inherent in the question that Canada might follow the lead of the United Kingdom in that regard. I would say

that when and if a decision is made in this respect the house will immediately be made aware of it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I can ask the Secretary of State whether he is yet in a position to provide the list of unfulfilled returns that was asked for some weeks ago?


believe it will be ready maybe tomorrow or next Monday.


May I send to the Secretary of State a partial list that one of my friends prepared for me, to help him in the preparation of this material?


The house resumed from Wednesday, March 1, consideration in committee of the following resolution-Mr. Hamilton (Qu'Ap-pelle)-Mr. Rea in the chair:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to authorize the Minister of Agriculture to enter into agreements with provincial governments or agencies thereof for the undertaking jointly with those governments or agencies of projects for the alternative uses of lands that are marginal or of low productivity, projects for the development of income and employment opportunities in rural agricultural areas, and projects for the development and conservation of the soil and water resources of Canada; for the payment to the provinces of contributions in respect of the cost of such projects undertaken by a province or agency thereof; to authorize the Minister of Agriculture to undertake programs of research and investigation in respect of these matters; to provide for the establishment of advisory committees and the appointment of their members, and to provide for other related and incidental matters.
When the resolution was last before the committee I had summarized in what directions productive acreage could be increased. In fact, after looking at our import and export position with regard to field crop production I find that without the export of wheat Canada would be a net importer of agricultural field and vegetable products.
If one takes a close look at the resolution before us, one finds that it readily breaks down into three categories. These categories are (1) projects for alternative use of land, particularly marginal land; (2) projects for the development of income and employment opportunities; (3) conservation of soil and
Marginal Lands
water resources. I find the resolution very interesting because of the fact that about half of the land area in my constituency is included in what is called the "special areas". These areas consist of a number of municipalities in the centre of the Palliser triangle, and they went bankrupt in the early thirties. At this time the whole area was taken over by the provincial government and administered from Edmonton. About 70 per cent of the land is what is known today as tax recovery land. The heart of the policy followed in connection with this area is the refusal to sell either crown or tax recovery land. This, coupled with the stipulation that cultivation leases are to be issued only for special feed needs, has made the area a cattle raising area.
In most respects this policy corresponds to the policy that will be possible under this resolution, but recently the provincial government began to shift their view with regard to the whole area. The provincial government has done this, first, by increasing the forage value on lands, in some cases to the extent of doubling the value, and placing the whole area in a group with land to the west along the foothills. The interesting thing is that here we have the federal government bringing in a resolution which would set up an area similar to that which I have described, yet recently the provincial government has begun to shift its views with regard to this whole area.
The premier of the province told a few ranchers in the area that he thought the whole of the special areas should be turned into a county. Last fall the provincial government set up a commission to study the administration of the special areas. One of the purposes of the commission was to ascertain whether conditions had been altered sufficiently in the special areas as a result of agricultural practices, technological advances and increases in the size of farms, to warrant the establishment of local municipal government. I suppose the reference is to a county system. In addition, the commission was to see whether conditions in the special areas were of a sufficiently different character to warrant a different type of administration from that of any other area in the province.
I mention these two terms of reference of that provincial commission because they are closely linked with the thought in this resolution. Here is an area consisting largely of submarginal land which has been subjected to rules and governed by an administration of the type that has had much to do with shaping the development of the area. The heart of the policy was the refusal to sell either crown or tax recovery land for culti-vative practices. These lands have been largely

Marginal Lands
leased by the farmers from the provincial government for cattle raising. Today we find that the provincial government of Alberta has reached a stage in its thinking where it believes this policy should be reversed, while the federal government introduces a policy which, in a sense, endorses the legislation which has applied to this area in the past. As a result of my experience in living in this area, I commend the federal government for introducing this measure under which alternative use of the land will be encouraged, one way or another.
I should like to speak for a moment on the other two points in this resolution, namely projects for the development of income and employment opportunities and projects for the conservation of soil and water resources. The minister said that, in effect, this measure would enlarge P.F.R.A. to cover the whole of Canada. Most of my constituency lies within the old boundaries of the P.F.R.A. areas, but that part which is not included at the moment will certainly welcome the news that it will qualify for assistance under P.F.R.A. Another point that should be considered is the statement by the minister that cost sharing arrangements of the past will be carried forward into the future in connection with any projects undertaken under the new legislation or under the old P.F.R.A.
There is one question, however, I should like to ask about this measure. Who can apply for assistance in connection with these projects? Many towns in my constituency are finding themselves short of water which hinders their development, thus reducing employment opportunities. Can the town or municipality act as the agent of the province? I hope so. What I have in mind is not a dugout for water to be supplied to a small town, but a medium sized dam or canal to channel the water into these towns and thus help the towns develop industrially, thus creating greater opportunities for the citizens now living in the towns to earn increased incomes as well as creating greater employment opportunities for new citizens. I know a great many towns in my constituency that would welcome assistance along these lines.
The last item I wish to mention is soil and water conservation. As I have mentioned before, the whole area in my constituency would welcome assistance under this particular measure. We have received considerable assistance in connection with the conservation of soil, but our water resources have not been developed to the extent that they could have been developed. The Red Deer river flows through the central part of Alberta and through my constituency. This river has been talked about for a number of years, going back as far as 1918, when William

Pearce envisaged the possibility of damming this river to create a greater water supply. I am sure the citizens of this areas would welcome assistance in the development of this particular project.
A number of people might think that I am advocating greater irrigation areas. This type of development may occur in some small areas in the east central part of Alberta, but by and large the development envisaged would create greater water supplies for the towns and for the cattle raising industry.
Last summer was a particularly dry summer, as well as the year before that, in some areas of east central Alberta. A number of farmers and ranchers had to sell their basic animals because of the lack of water in their pastures. The proposed project which has been talked about for many years, will bring about greater development and will industrialize the area. It will be accompanied perhaps by some small irrigation projects to assist in bringing about greater use of the submarginal land for stock raising purposes.
It is estimated that perhaps 40 acres out of each township, on the average, is adaptable for irrigation. A great deal of land, as hon. members will realize, is not suitable for irrigation because of the varied types of soil. I point this out only to indicate, to those individuals who think we have enough irrigated land at this time, that this is not another solid irrigation project that is envisaged in that area, but rather a project which will help to conserve water and bring about greater development of the area in general.
I welcome the introduction of this resolution. I hope the Minister of Agriculture will be willing to co-operate with the province of Alberta in this regard, and that he will realize that the development of this east central part of Alberta is necessary to maintain the livelihood of the agriculture element in that growing area of Canada.


Mr. Chairman, I rise to support the principle and purpose of this resolution which, from our point of view, is quite sound. We hope the future will disclose that the administration of the legislation founded on this resolution, and the co-operation extended by the provinces, will be equal to the hopes that are raised by the introduction of the resolution.
Before proceeding I might say that the C.C.F. party throughout the years has urged long term planning and action on the part of federal and provincial governments to protect, restore and conserve our renewable natural resources along the lines indicated in this legislation. On that account I have no hesitation whatsoever in congratulating the minister


and the government for giving effect to at least another aspect of C.C.F. policy throughout the years.
This is a very interesting subject to me because I have lived very close to nature all my life. Anyone who reads the pages of history will realize that man has made a bit of a mess of the Lord's earth since he inherited it. I want to bring to the attention of this committee certain quotations which I have found while reading the scripture on Sunday mornings. I was looking up a few quotations which I remembered in the old testament, which had reference to the very problem that we are discussing this afternoon. We find that man awakened to life on this earth embowered in a garden of trees surrounded by fertile soil and unpolluted water. After thousands of years of life look how we have treated our heritage. I find in Genesis 2:8-9 the following:
And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the men whom he had formed. And out of the ground made the Lord God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.
We have learned a lot about evil but very little about how to care for the garden. Ever since man was driven out of the garden of Eden he has done two things very successfully. First, he has tried to destroy his fellow man and continues to do so. Second, he has ravaged the earth; and no one can deny that.
I was looking up this question and now realize that rehabilitation and conservation is not something new. This subject goes back thousands of years. In fact the first instruction to conserve and care for the things on earth is to be found in the Bible. I quote from Revelation 9:4, as follows:
So protect the bounty of the earth, for nature is the work of God.
And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree-
We have certainly broken what I would call the eleventh commandment throughout the ages. Man continues his devastation today. We find signs of this in the history of the valley of the Euphrates and in the valley of the Nile; we find this in Europe and in Asia.
I then turned my attention to the history of rehabilitation programs, and found that after wasting resources for centuries man found that he had destroyed many of the things he had inherited, and was instructed in Leviticus 19:23 as follows:
And man realizing his loss, must set out to clothe the land with trees.
And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof-
Marginal Lands
I mention these quotations from scripture to indicate how ancient and long standing this program of rehabilitation is. Even the present minister is not the first one to develop a rehabilitation program, but we give him full marks for being the first one in this house to do so on this scale. I have no hesitation in giving him credit for seeking to have this problem studied as the result of a national conference, and as a result of this resolution being brought to the attention of the house.
Man has gone on since early ages ruining the land, destroying the forests, polluting our waters and diminishing our wildlife in all sectors of the world. It is only in comparatively recent years that rehabilitation programs on any scale were attempted. I find from my reading that the first program of any scope was introduced in Europe about 1865, and then in Great Britain in about 1880. A program has only been introduced in Asia in very recent years; in fact one is under the Colombo plan, to which the people of Canada are contributing in an attempt to restore the areas which have been ravaged and denuded as the result of man's pollution of rivers and destruction of forests.
In this virtually new country of Canada we find that the destruction of natural resources has taken place at a tremendous pace from almost the days of early settlement. I have been reading in regard to this problem, and I notice that one of the first studies was made by the commission on conservation which was appointed by the government of Canada in 1909. I know that the father of the Minister of Justice was a member of that commission in its initial stages. I obtained a copy of the Trent watershed survey which deals with this problem. I mention these things to indicate our lack in foresight in the establishment of programs in connection with the preservation of our natural resources. I wish to quote from this book entitled "Trent Watershed Survey," because it is very interesting to me and I think will be of interest to some hon. members, and will show how grave this problem was as far back as the middle of the nineteenth century. This report was written by Messrs. C. D. Howe and J. H. White. At page 97 is found the following paragraph:
The impression received daily throughout the season's investigation was the dreary hopelessness of attempting to secure returns by agricultural activities, from a soil inherently adapted only for forest use. The amount of human energy unavailingly expended in this attempt, represents an incalculable asset lost to the province. It is but another example of past misguided or rather unguided occupancy of townships which should never have been thrown open for settlement, and of the lack of appreciation by government of its obvious duties.
Marginal Lands
This, mind you, was in 1865. The report continues:
Early advice-That this was not done through ignorance of conditions is shown by various reports of the early commissioners of crown lands and of parliamentary inquiries. Extracts from two of these will suffice to show that, even in those days, there were men who were aware of the necessity of segregating agricultural from absolute forest lands, and the setting aside of the latter as forest reserves. As early as 1855 a committee of the House of Commons, Hon. A. T. Galt, chairman, reported, among other things: "It appears from the evidence that settlement has been unreasonably pushed in some localities quite unfit to become the permanent residence of an agricultural population. Especially has this been the case in some of the free grant roads and adjacent country, lying between the waters of the Ottawa and lake Ontario. Your committee would refer to the evidence and recommend that the government should, in all cases, ascertain positively the character of the country before throwing open any tract of land for settlement, so that such lands that are really not fit for profitable cultivation may not be thrown upon the market. There being considerable diversity of opinion among the witnesses in regard to some of the localities adverted to, it seems to the committee that the government should have an examination made by some thoroughly competent and reliable officer, whose report would be available in any further consideration of this subject."
Again, in 1865, the Hon. A. Campbell, commissioner of crown lands, in his report for that year, stated: ..."It needs a careful discrimination between pine lands exclusively and lands fit for settlement, to place it in the power of the government to conserve this valuable source of national wealth".
The report goes on to point out the completely uncontrolled destruction of forests in eastern Ontario and the need for some action on the part of governments to change these circumstances, to control the settlement of land and so on. Yet it is obvious that although consideration was given to these matters over a century ago, very little was done to correct the situation until recent years, and nothing has been done in the nature of a co-ordinated program as suggested by this resolution.
I wish to quote briefly from the recommendations of this commission, which are found on page 15 of this report. There are two recommendations which I think are most interesting in light of the present circumstances:
Nobody who has studied the conditions presented in this report will hesitate a moment in agreeing that the bulk of the country involved should be placed in, and managed as, a permanent forest reserve for the growing of timber. The only question can be: How this is to be brought about? There are at least five interests to be considered or reckoned with and to be brought into co-operation in building up such a territory-the dominion government, the provincial government, the municipalities in which the territory is situated, the private owners of properties and of timber licences, and the public at large.
Later on in the recommendations it is said:
The co-operation of the three administrative agencies, the dominion, provincial and municipal
[Mr. Herridge.l
governments, is especially needed to develop anything like a permanent forest policy, for forest growth is slow, and financial results from timber growing, the only incentive for private enterprise, are slow in coming, so that only persistent entities like governments can be expected to carry on the business of timber growing.
And I might add, to carry out the recommendations mentioned in this report. Those were very sound observations which apply just as much today as they did at the time of that commission's investigation and report. I am very pleased to again say that according to the terms of the resolution the minister is actually proceeding along the lines recommended in a government report of many years ago.
While this is a subject of immense importance to our country as a whole and to the welfare of human beings, throughout the years only a very small percentage of the population has been far sighted enough in this regard. Socialists have been in the vanguard in this respect in every country in the world. If you read socialist literature you will find that they had the foresight to realize man's dependence upon the conservation of natural resources, their proper development and so on, and others have followed suit.
However, it has taken a long time to build up a social consciousness on this question, and I admit quite freely that complete consciousness does not exist even today. I have been talking to men who have been concerned with the proposed building of dams, and so on, in my constituency. I must explain that these men are not resident in my constituency. I have on occasion talked to these men, who seem to have no appreciation of the necessity to do what is in the best interests of the country as a whole and the public at large. They would be just as shortsighted as some capitalists are in providing nothing but an immediate job without any idea of the project's influence on the welfare of future generations.
Throughout the years socialists have influenced governments and public opinion, and our province has had a fairly high percentage of these people. It is interesting to note that although this matter was investigated in Ontario over a century ago and a report was made to the government of Canada, no action was taken until recent years. Do you know that in British Columbia, after the election of a number of C.C.F. members who became the official opposition of that government, because of their insistence in the legislature on the necessity to protect our forest industry, our forest resources and other natural resources, within eight years the first royal commission on forestry in British Columbia was appointed.

There is no question in my mind that socialist minded people had a great influence on public opinion and, as a result, on the government of the day. We had a similar situation with respect to conservation in Ontario. I refer to the report of the select committee on conservation set up by the Ontario government. There has been literature published on this subject, and in recent years professional organizations have taken a leading part in this matter.
I refer to such organizations as the Agricultural Institute of Canada, the Canadian forestry institute, the Canadian Federation of Agriculture and the Canadian forestry association. I cannot mention these organizations without referring to the good work carried out by a number of professors in the universities across this country. I would mention particularly Dr. O. M. McCoukey of the Ontario Agricultural College who retired a few years ago. This gentleman has spoken often on this question, he has written on the subject and has published literature on conservation for many years. He has been a guide and stimulus to many people in Canada in this respect.
With a hurried summary of the situation, since the garden of Eden until today, I say that we cannot but recognize this is a long term program. This is not going to give work to large numbers of people immediately. We know that. However, it is a program that should have been commenced a century ago. Because it is a sound program we are supporting it, and we are glad to know that even at this late date a start is being made in this connection.
If there is to be success in this program it will require the co-operation of federal, provincial and municipal governments in some cases. It will require the co-operation of organizations across this country which are interested in this problem. It will require the co-operation of the public at large. This means that the public relations educational program will have to be extensive. In my opinion there is an opportunity here for our younger people in the high schools and senior grades of public schools to build up their esprit de corps, an interest in the fact that this is Canada, this is their country, and they should be well acquainted with the efforts of government and organizations to give effect to a program such as this, in order to preserve it.
I suggest that not only will funds be required to make this program effective, but funds will be required for extensive research, because conditions are so varied in different parts of Canada.
I have had some experience in the conservation of forest resources, though I find
Marginal Lands
that my experience has been very different from that of people in the Ottawa valley and other places. A great deal of educational and public relations work is required. I suggest to the minister that this does offer an opportunity to arouse the interest of our younger people in the universities, high schools and public schools through an educational program which would promote a desire on their part to participate in something which will bring increasing dividends to Canada as a whole and to them as individuals throughout the years.
Before concluding I do want to say there are some wonderful opportunities in Kootenay West for the application of this program. I cannot conclude without making some reference to my constituency. We have thousands of acres of undeveloped land in my constituency which could be brought under cultivation through the application of this program. We have thousands of acres of other land, now improperly cleared for other purposes, which could be replanted and turned back to forest growth.
There are wonderful opportunities, for example, in the Slocan valley, a valley 30 miles long with a paved highway 20 feet wide running through it. A beautiful river three times the width of this chamber flows the full length of the valley; power and light have been provided and all that is needed is co-operation between the federal and provincial governments to instal irrigation and drainage to make this an area of the most fertile possibilities where thousands of acres could be brought under cultivation. I could take hon. members to one spot where they could look down over 12,000 acres of land as level as a billiard table. All that is required to make that area habitable and suitable for cultivation is the lowering of the water level by three feet as a result of the deepening of the Duncan river, and the building of 20 miles of road. The same opportunities are available along Kootenay lake and in the valley of the Columbia river between Castlegar and Revelstoke.
This is a program in which we should get people interested, and young people particularly. I am confident that if we could get them to see-I was about to say "the vision" but I do not want to be misunderstood; however, I mean it-if we could get them to see the vision in a national way and then apply it to the circumstances in which they live there would be no difficulty about enlisting the time and energy of people who wanted to take part in this great development.
That is all I intend to say. My remarks have been somewhat general. However, I hope the measure which will follow this resolution will satisfy our anticipations in
Marginal Lands
every way and that when it is passed the minister will enjoy the co-operation of the provinces in the development of this forward looking long term plan so long advocated by the party to which I belong.
In speaking on the resolution for the second time I feel I should tell the committee that of all people in this chamber I, perhaps, appreciate more than most the honour which has fallen upon me in bringing in this legislation. Like the hon. member for Kootenay West, I know full well how long people have talked of conservation; how long people in the universities have proposed ideas, and how long organizations across this country have made representations to governments at local, provincial and federal level with respect to it. I agree with the hon. member that the significant thing is that at long last something has been Started.
I should like to discuss some of the observations which have been made during the debate on the resolution. I think I should be doing only justice to posterity if I omitted some of the comments made, because I think they are better forgotten. I think the only remark which has achieved national publicity across this country, and which is negative with regard to this legislation, is that it is long ranged. At the very outset I want to make it perfectly clear that I agree that this is a long range program. No one wants to pretend it is anything else.
The criticism which went across the country after the introduction of the resolution was to the effect that it was not going to do any good now; it did not affect prices or the shortage of income in agriculture, but was just a long term measure. Fortunately this first public information which went out from the house with regard to this measure has not been able to take hold. The common sense of the farmers and of the people who live in our towns and cities, as well as the tremendous, almost fantastic support that this resolution has received from newspapers and editors, from farm organizations, from the great weeklies across Canada and from newspapers in general in their news columns and special articles, have brought to the attention of all segments of the population the achievements of which this measure is capable. I think the thanks of all Canadians are due to these agencies of public education.
I am very glad to have the support of the knowledgeable members of the C.C.F. party in connection with this measure. I think it takes the bad taste out of one's mouth when one considers some of the things which have been said by various members about it. If any person tries to divorce this from the
[Mr. Herridge.l
over-all agricultural policy of the government, that person does a great injustice to what we are attempting to do here.
This is part and parcel of a national program for agriculture which is a logical, co-ordinated attack on the fundamental weaknesses we see in agriculture. It is just as important as the stabilization act; it is just as important as crop insurance will be some day; it is just as important as this new power which is being put into the battle on behalf of farmers, the farm credit corporation. It is part of a program for agriculture which is the basic cornerstone of a national development program.
Perhaps I may say something now which is not altogether new. When I was in the United States last week I discussed with the secretary of state for agriculture and the secretary of state for the interior of that country something of what we are doing here. Because of the great interest they took in the outline of our thinking we realized we should have more time to discuss this question, so I invited them, along with the head of the food for peace program, to visit us in Canada for two or three days to sit down and discuss the philosophy and principles of our respective agricultural programs and see whether we could not only bring agriculture and other resources together in our respective countries but also understand better the relationship of resources between the two main countries on the North American continent. I think it is hopeful for the future of all of us in Canada that the interest of these three men is as great as it is.
I should like to say a few words now on the general necessity for the agricultural rehabilitation and development bill, to be founded on this resolution. It is, first of all, to fill a most important gap which has grown up over the decades in our agricultural industry. It is a gap which has defied all attempts to get at the agricultural problem on the economic side. The people primarily the concern of this measure live on marginal and submarginal land. The policies of price stabilization, of crop insurance and of farm credit do not get at the real difficulties of these people who live on marginal and submarginal lands.
We do not know how many of these people there are. I have tried to get at the number by estimating those whose annual production is less than $1,200 a year. In essence they represent about 30 per cent of our people who, through the decades, have been occupying land which has slowly been becoming an agricultural slum. To get at their problem is one purpose of A.R.D.A. and, in my opinion, its main purpose. I cannot get

away from the fact that we are not using to the full the human resources of these 120,000 family farms. I put this forward as the No. 1 purpose of this program.
The second purpose is more general, and is somewhat along the lines of the remarks .made by the hon. member for Kootenay West, the hon. member for Kent (N.B.) and other hon. members on this side of the committee. This measure represents an attempt for the first time on the part of any government to look at agriculture as a unit and not to regard the various commodities separately. This is an attempt to look at the opportunities for the intelligent use of land and water not only in the field of agriculture but also in the field of the related resource industries.
I recently heard one person express this in a highly dramatic way. He said that if we ever departed from the thought that the forest industries of Canada and the agricultural industries were not related, we were doomed. He said not only were the forests and farms of Canada twins but they were Siamese twins, and to separate them would be fatal to both.
This is the approach I have in mind as the second great purpose of this program, namely to attempt to look at the interests and needs of our forest and other resource industries and the various aspects of our agricultural industries and relate them, to plan policies that would permit taking advantage of the opportunities in both fields.
I spoke earlier of the tremendous response to this program on the part of many people throughout the country, I spoke of the warm response of many people who have worked in this field for many years, of experts in various departments of agriculture across Canada, of experts in resource departments and branches, and I included in that reference the editorial writers and newspaper people whose attention had been drawn to this program. The clippings I have on this subject could be numbered only in the several hundreds.
I wish to place on the record some of these editorial observations to indicate to the committee and those who in years to come read this record that there is now general support across this country for this program. The following is an editorial from the Calgary Albertan of February 2, 1961 under the title "Rural Development":
Agriculture minister Hamilton's rural developm