Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege arising out of an item which appeared in the Ottawa Journal of last evening, which states "Denies Liberal Protests". I am not going into it and waste the time of the house. It purports to suggest that I came out of a committee sitting in camera yesterday and disclosed what was going on in committee. I was called out of the committee, and all I said was that I did not know what the person who asked the question was talking about. I made no disclosure at any time, and I simply wished to set the record straight.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to table three copies, in English and French, of a document summarizing the tariff concessions of interest to Canada arising from the United States negotiations with countries other than Canada during the GATT tariff conference. On March 7, 1962 the Minister of Finance tabled the interim agreement between Canada and the United States. At that time he indicated that in addition to the agreement with Canada the United States had concluded negotiations with several other countries, and that the details of the indirect benefits accruing to Canada from these other arrangements would be made public when the results had been analysed.
This information will be found in the document I am tabling. In addition to direct United States concessions to Canada covering $65 million of Canadian trade, the United States made concessions to other countries on items affecting $85 million of Canadian exports to the United States in 1960, mostly manufactured articles. Moreover, concessions granted to the United States by the European economic community cover approximately 26207-1-163
$140 million of Canadian trade with the community. Canada will also benefit from a number of tariff concessions granted to the United States by Finland, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland and Peru.


Has the minister leave to table the document tendered by him?


Agreed.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Transport.
In view of the disastrous effects the pilots' strike might have on the Canadian economy, does the minister intend to call them to Ottawa immediately in order to consider the grievances they brought before him?


Mr. Speaker, I asked the officials of my department today to get in touch with the pilots and the shipowners so that both parties might be brought together today. As hon. members know, requests were made by the pilots to the shipowners, and the latter will have to pay the costs. That is why I think that pilots and shipowners should get together.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question. Under the Canada Shipping Act, it is the Minister of Transport who is the authority with respect to pilotage in Canada. Therefore, I feel it is his duty to convene the pilots to Ottawa without delay.


Mr. Speaker, that first step will be taken to begin with.
(Text):


I should like to ask a supplementary question. Has the minister received any communication or protests from the United States authorities in charge of shipping with regard to the strike, and if so what answer has been given to indicate to the United States authorities the likely duration of the strike?
2558	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry Mr. Balcer: Mr. Speaker, when I left my office this morning I had not received any protest or any communication from United States shipping authorities.

(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, is there any truth to the reports which appeared in this morning's papers to the effect that in order to reduce its expenses and following pressure from the treasury board, the Department of Transport has asked pilots to contribute part of their salaries to the purchase of aids to navigation for the maintenance of the St. Lawrence seaway?


Mr. Speaker, such a request was made about a month ago. We asked the pilots to consider the possibility of contributing to the purchase of a launch to carry the pilots from the wharf at Les Escoumains to the ships which pass at that place. That craft would be for the exclusive use of pilots. Officials of my department have inquired with the pilots as to the possibility of their contributing to the purchase of such a boat which would be for their exclusive use.


Did the officials of the department receive a reply from the pilots concerning that suggestion?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, the suggestion was turned down by the pilots.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources because I have quite a number of constituents who have been waiting for this information. In view of the fact that my question No. 229, which asked for biographies and information on half a dozen members of the water resources branch of the minister's department, was passed as an order for return on March 12, as recorded on page 1694 of Hansard for that date, could the minister let me know the reasons for the delay in providing this information, and whether the apparent dam has anything to do with United States influence?


I can assure my hon. friend that very careful attention has been given to this matter. As a matter of fact the biographies of the personnel have been researched very carefully, so he can


assure his constituents they will have all the necessary information. I do not believe I should comment on the latter part of the question because I do not want to create an international incident.


Order. The hon. member for Kootenay West.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question to ask the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources, which was delayed because of the intrusion of this teachers' problem. Will I get the information I seek in time to use my frank in sending it out to my constituents?


I can assure the hon. member on that point. We should have it by next week, as a matter of fact.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to reply to a question asked yesterday by the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate. The hon. member drew my attention to an editorial entitled "Is This the Way to Campaign", which appeared in the March 15 issue of News of the North, a weekly paper published by one of the more prominent members of the Liberal party in the town of Yellowknife.
I have now had an opportunity to examine this editorial, and I think it is fair to say that the interpretation of the situation is a Liberal one and therefore somewhat distorted. It refers to a school teacher at Hay River and a welfare worker of my department at Fort Smith, who are seeking the Progressive Conservative nomination for the Northwest Territories. It suggests that the position of these two potential candidates would be quite different if they were seeking the Liberal nomination.
I do not want to make any obvious comment on that, and I will leave it to hon. members to draw their own conclusions. I can assure my hon. friends that my department has a single and consistent policy that is applied uniformly whenever it is found that a civil servant is engaged in partisan work. This policy is dictated by law under section 61 of the revised Civil Service Act, which provides that civil servants are not to engage in partisan work in connection with any federal or provincial election. Civil servants who are nominated or who are actively seeking nomination are asked to resign and, failing that, are subject to dismissal following a full and proper inquiry to protect them against unjust dismissal.

The civil servant in question, Mr. Eugene Rheaume, acted quite honourably and resigned of his own accord well before nomination day which, according to News of the North, has yet to be held.
The case of the school teacher, Mr. John Scott, is quite different. He is not a civil servant and therefore not subject to section 61 of the Civil Service Act. As my hon. friend knows, education in Canada is a provincial matter and teachers in the north, while recruited and paid by the federal government, are really carrying out a territorial responsibility.
There is a long established tradition in this country that school teachers in the provinces are free to seek election to federal or provincial office, and we have not wished to discriminate against territorial teachers by denying them any of the privileges enjoyed under the provincial school systems from which they are normally recruited. The house will recall that the rights of school teachers in this respect were championed in a long, uphill and eventually successful battle by a respected member of this house, the former leader of the C.C.F. party, Mr. M. J. Cold-well, one of the many school teachers who over the years have rendered distinguished service in this house.
However, Mr. Speaker, in order to be completely above suspicion I understand that the school teacher concerned in this instance is going to seek leave so that no aspersions or suspicions can be cast on his activities. I can only add, Mr. Speaker, that if either of these gentlemen is successful in obtaining the Progressive Conservative nomination-


He will be sorry.


-he will be the next member of parliament for the Northwest Territories.


I wish to put a supplementary question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration and ask the hon. lady whether the position with respect to teachers, which the minister of northern affairs has enunciated in the case of teachers in the territories, is also applicable to the teachers in the Indian schools under the hon. lady's jurisdiction.


I cannot give a definite answer to that because-


You sure cannot.


What did the hon. member say?


I said you sure cannot.
26207-1-163i
Inquiries of the Ministry


Perhaps the hon. member can wait until I have finished my remarks, instead of casting in his little asides. The hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate knows that all the teachers who teach Indian students are not employees of the department. Some of them are under the provinces.


I was only asking about those who are.


But if they are civil servants they come under the regulations of the Civil Service Act.


May I put a supplementary question to the minister of northern affairs and ask if he could say whether a government chartered aircraft, with welfare workers aboard, is making a tour of the eastern Arctic?


Mr. Speaker, this is not a supplementary to the question under consideration, and I have no knowledge of this situation. Was this reported in News of the North too?


On a point of order, I am seeking information that has been raised as a result of the hon. gentleman's answer. I am abiding by the rules in seeking this ininformation. Would the minister find out whether this is correct?


Since the hon. member wishes to discuss the matter as a point of order, I agree that it was not a supplementary question. However, it has been asked, and if the minister wishes to answer it he is at liberty to do so.


Put it on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, my only further comment is that I was also seeking information-


You have no right to do so.


-because I would like to know the basis for this question.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport.
Could the minister tell us if he has received a reply from the provincial authorities, following the order in council passed by the
2560	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry federal government for the transfer of the Soulanges canal to the province of Quebec? If so, could he acquaint the house with the nature of that reply?


Mr. Speaker, on February 26, I wrote a letter to the Quebec government authorities in which I included a copy of the order in council transferring to the province of Quebec the ownership and administration of the Soulanges canal.
In that letter, I requested a copy of the order in council passed by the government of the province of Quebec to authorize the acceptance of the transfer, but I have yet to receive a reply.


Mr. Speaker, 1 should like to ask a supplementary question. How does the minister account for such negligence on the part of the provincial authorities in this matter?


They have no money.


They are bankrupt.
(Text):


INQUIRY AS TO DATE OF MEETING OF PRIME MINISTERS On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister whether he has received an invitation from the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to a commonwealth prime ministers' conference on September 10, or some other date in September; and if so, what reply he has given to that invitation?


Mr. Speaker, there have been communications between the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and the various prime ministers of the commonwealth asking their opinions on the subject of a date for a prime ministers' conference and also asking whether, having regard to various circumstances, and in particular to the fact that discussions with relation to the common market application of the United Kingdom will under normal circumstances not be completed before late summer, a date in September would be satisfactory.
The attitude taken by the Canadian government is that, having had from the government of the United Kingdom the assurance that no final decision in connection with their application will be determined by the United Kingdom government until such time as a commonwealth prime ministers' conference has had the opportunity of looking 

into the matter, considering its implications in general and hearing the views of the United Kingdom government, the date would be satisfactory.


Does the Prime Minister not think that if the conference is to be held in September he should consult with his successor before replying to the invitation?


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, hope springs eternal in the breast of the opposition. My experience in the last two days has been that the hon. member's expectations are not going to be realized.


Hear, hear.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister, but before asking it perhaps the house would permit me to draw to its attention the presence in the gallery of members of the young Progressive Conservative association of Canada.


Hear, hear.


Order. I take it that the hon. member is not spying strangers, and I shall not have to put the question.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, surely you should not permit this kind of obstruction of the work of the house.


Oh, oh.


They certainly stand between you and office, anyway.


May I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Has he received a request from the acting premier of Newfoundland seeking the co-operation of the federal government in appraising the very serious situation existing at Bell island as a result of the lay-offs there by Dosco, with a view to the provision of federal assistance? If so, is the Prime Minister in a position to report at this time?


There was a communication in that regard and Mr. Roy MacCuish, assistant director of the vocational training branch of the Department of Labour, will go to Newfoundland to discuss with officials of the government of Newfoundland possible solutions to the situation at Bell island.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Labour and ask him what action his department is taking to bring about a settlement of the dispute between the shipping federation of Canada and the St. Lawrence river pilots?


Mr. Speaker, this matter does not come under the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Minister of Finance and ask him if it is a fact that Canada has agreed to a moderate increase in the voluntary export quotas which Japan will impose on shipments of textiles to Canada this year.


No, there has been no agreement yet. These matters have been under discussion for several months, and when there is a determination of the question it will be made public.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if I could ask the Acting Minister of Public Works if he is now in a position to answer the question I put to him on Wednesday, in which I asked that the greatest possible use of wood should be made when putting up government buildings in Ottawa.


I thought I had dealt with that question the other day. However, the suggestion made by the hon. member has already been considered by the Department of Public Works, and I believe that Canadian wood will be used to the maximum possible extent.


May I direct a question to the Minister of Forestry. Did the minister take any action to satisfy the demands or the protests of the lumber industry of Canada in connection with the proposed forest products research building being built
Inquiries of the Ministry on Montreal road and designed almost entirely devoid of lumber? Would the minister assure the house and the lumber industry that this state of affairs will be rectified?


The representations which have been made by the lumber industry concerning the building in question have been given the utmost consideration. There are various technical features in connection with this building, however, which must also be taken into consideration by the Department of Public Works. The hon. member may be sure, though, that the representations which have been made have received the greatest degree of consideration as far as the Department of Forestry is concerned.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration whether she has yet received a report from Indian commissioner Boys in British Columbia with respect to the situation at the Prophet river reserve north of Nelson.


A report has not yet been received, but we are expecting one any day now.


May I direct a related question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare and ask if he saw a report in last night's Ottawa Journal to the effect that Dr. Cunningham, who was sent by his department to investigate this situation, had not gone on from Prophet River to Fort Nelson to inspect the records there of the doctor who had given the first assistance to the Indians who were ill on the reserve, and if he can say whether that report is correct?


I did see the report referred to. As I indicated to the house the other day, the doctor who acts on behalf of the department in the area did visit the reserve last Saturday and his report, which I gave to the house, was reassuring. Dr. Barclay, head of the Pacific region of Indian and northern health services, has been very concerned about this matter and is keeping a close watch on the situation.

Inquiries of the Ministry HEALTH AND WELFARE


On the orders of the day:
On Tuesday last the hon. member for Skeena asked for my comments on statements attributed to Dr. William Cochrane, of Dalhousie University, concerning the amounts of vitamin D in foods. This subject has been under discussion in my department for some time, and consideration is being given to the possibility of amending the regulations under the Food and Drugs Act to limit the addition of vitamin D to certain specified foods.
In connection with the possibility of excess vitamin D being taken by individuals in foods and medicines, the regulations under the Food and Drugs Act were amended last year to reduce the amount of vitamin D in medicinal vitamin preparations to one half the previous level. In view of the concern over the indiscriminate addition of vitamin D to foods, the matter is under current discussion with the Canadian council on nutrition.


Can the minister say whether the same concern is being exhibited by his department with respect to the so-called multiple vitamins which are on sale, and which are equally detrimental?


The department is studying all these questions continuously.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration based on an article which appeared in the Hamilton Spectator of April 4. Was the minister correctly reported as having said that the current Immigration Act is a patchwork affair which she would like to see completely revised? If so, was she speaking personally or on behalf of the government?


That is precisely what I said.


Then I wonder if the minister would explain why, if she has felt that way since at least April 22, 1959-


Order. I suggest the hon. member take that up when the estimates are called.


Could I put the question directly? Can the minister-


Order. The hon. member
seems-


I should like to raise a point of order with respect to my hon. friend's question. If I understand Your Honour correctly, there was a suggestion that this be taken up on the estimates. We have no assurance that there will be any opportunity to take this up on the estimates, and it is surely an urgent matter if the minister expresses the view that the law is completely unsatisfactory, as the hon. lady did in Hamilton. It is surely competent for us to ask her why, in four years, she has done nothing about it.


In the first place I must take exception to the hon. member's words. I did not say the law was completely unsatisfactory.


Well, largely unsatisfactory. I will amend my proposition.


Maybe your confrere will hand you the article so you can read it yourself. At the time I brought in the new regulations I stated that I was not satisfied with the act. I have said that on many occasions, and I have also stated that after the regulations have had an opportunity to work the act will be revised.


Does the minister propose to submit an amendment to the act this session?


Order. The point of order was before the house, not the question. I expressed an opinion which, notwithstanding the views of a very experienced member of the house, I still think it is correct. This subject is more properly one for debate. If the estimates are not appropriate perhaps the hon. member for Trinity will find another suitable time to discuss the matter.


On the orders of the day:
wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works or, in his absence, to the acting minister or the parliamentary secretary. Would the acting minister advise the house if the tunnel now under construction between the west block and the centre block will be completed before the dissolution of the present parliament, or before the opening of the sixth session of the twenty-fourth parliament?


I think that depends on when parliament is dissolved.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether the government has officially conveyed to the United States government the views which have recently and publicly been expressed by both my hon. friend and the Prime Minister, namely that the United States should not resume nuclear testing?


I dealt with this
question in my first speech at the disarmament conference in Geneva, when I said this:
Canada deeply regretted that the Soviet union last August broke a three year moratorium on testing, for we are opposed to all nuclear weapon tests. In this we share the view of most other countries. Indeed, the major nuclear powers themselves have stated at this very conference that they would like to see all tests stopped. However, they now find themselves unable to reach final accord owing to disagreement on inspection. Is there no alternative to another series of tests with all the harmful consequences that such action could bring? Is it not possible, within the framework of this committee, to make the further effort which is required to break the deadlock? In my opinion, such an effort must be made, for otherwise the prospects of this conference itself could be seriously threatened.
As the Leader of the Opposition will know, they are still working on this problem at the conference in Geneva.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Transport this question now that the small boat season is upon us. Why has the Department of Transport not proceeded with the licensing and disciplining of small craft, as was indicated last session was likely?


I am sorry, but I must ask my hon. friend to repeat his question.


I wonder why the Department of Transport has not proceeded with the policy of the licensing and disciplining of small craft as was indicated last session as likely for this year.


We have had a small boat conference this year. It is a yearly conference. The matter was discussed with people interested in this problem and also with representatives of the provinces. The matter has
Inquiries of the Ministry been studied at length, and we are still in negotiation and discussion with the various interested parties.


I have a supplementary question. May I ask the minister whether a public opinion poll was held at this year's conference as was done at last year's conference? If so, what was the result of the poll?


I have not the result of the poll about which my hon. friend is talking. I am sorry, but I cannot give that result now.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate asked if I would ascertain the date on which a licence was granted to the satellite television station at Stranraer. A licence in the form of an authorization to operate was given by telegram on April 4, 1962. In due course this will be confirmed by a formal document.


May I ask the minister whether that telegram had been sent before the minister answered the questions in the house on that date?


No, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Acting Minister of Public Works. It is based on my long campaign for the proper and permanent recognition of the role of the fourth estate in parliament and in our democracy.
In view of the fact that a new parliamentary stone carver, Miss Eleanor Milne, has recently been appointed, would the minister consider taking advantage of this opportunity to mark the new Elizabethan age by recommending the enshrinement in stone, as decorative gargoyles, of the heads of members of the fourth estate whose Celtic, Roman and Elizabethan features would be most appropriate for this purpose?


Mr. Speaker, I am not quite sure what kind of gargoyles the members of the press gallery would make. However, I am

Inquiries of the Ministry certain that my old friend the hon. member for Kootenay West would make an excellent one.

(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I address a question to the Minister of Transport?
What amount is paid to the Department of Transport by the Conservative party for the use of its airplanes for election purposes?


Nothing at all, Mr. Speaker.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is there an agreement between the Conservative party and the Department of Transport concerning those fights?


Absolutely not.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Justice Whether he has received a copy of Bill No. C-82.


Mr. Speaker, Bill No. C-82 is not before me.


Mr. Speaker, the question I asked the minister was whether he had received it from the Clerk of the house.


If Bill No. C-82 is the one which the hon. member attempted by ruse to get before the house the other day, I have not received it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Is the minister aware that the Quebec provincial government, out of the taxpayers' money, is paying for advertisements in the papers and over television and radio stations under the pretext of informing the population on the operation of hospital insurance in Quebec, in such a way as to give the people the impression that the government of the province of Quebec alone is paying the cost of that joint federal-provincial program?
[Mr. Green.)


Order paper.


I am not aware of such advertising, Mr. Speaker. However, if such advertising were being done it would be entirely incorrect, as the federal government pays approximately 50 per cent of all hospitalization costs in the province.


The house resumed, from Thursday, April 5, consideration in committee of Bill No. C-38, to provide for the reporting of financial and other statistics relating to the affairs of corporations and labour unions carrying on activities in Canada-Mr. Fulton-Mr. Marti-neau in the chair.
On clause 14-Privileged information; prohibition against communication.
When the committee rose last night we were considering clause 14 of the bill and the amendment thereto moved by the Minister of Veterans Affairs. Shall this amendment carry?
(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, before the house took recess last night, the committee had decided to study this clause, paragraph by paragraph, as it has been doing so far.
I have a few remarks to make with regard to subsection 1 of clause 14 which is one of the important clauses of this bill, because it informs us that section B of the return that the corporations or the unions must file is secret, confidential or privileged.
This clause also indicates the guarantees provided by the act to the corporations or unions which will have to divulge to the government their financial structure, in particular.
As stipulated in this clause, authorized officials are the only ones who may divulge certain details of the returns to other authorized persons or officials.
Under this clause we must guarantee adequate protection to these corporations and unions. To that effect, I feel that clause 14, subsection 1, should be amended by eliminating the word "knowingly", which is found on page 10, line 12.

Normally, under the Criminal Code, the prosecution has to prove conclusively the guilt of the accused. It is the British tradition and only in very special cases can we waive that principle under which the burden of proof rests with the prosecution.
In this case, I am very reluctant to make the suggestion I have in mind, but I feel that corporations and unions which have to file returns with the government should be given the utmost protection. If officials are in a position to communicate certain information to other people, companies must absolutely be protected.
An excellent means of protection, in addition to legal proceedings, would lighten the onus of proof or, inversely, make defence more difficult.
I do hope that the Minister of Justice has been able to follow my remarks, if not directly, then through simultaneous translation.
I also hope that he, as well as the committee, will take into consideration the amendment I am about to introduce, because I sincerely believe that it will afford still greater protection to corporations and unions which will be required to file these returns. (Text):
I move, Mr. Chairman:
That clause 14, section 1, be amended by striking from line 12 thereof the word "knowingly". (Translation):


I think the committee is now considering an amendment which was submitted last night by the Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Churchill). Therefore, we should dispose of this amendment before we can entertain the amendment of the hon. member for Megantic (Mr. Roberge).


I believe the minister admitted last night-
(Text):


May I suggest with leave of the committee that the amendment last night amends subparagraphs 3 and 4 and substi-stutes new subparagraphs 3, 4 and 5. I had it moved last night in order that it might be available to the committee for study and consideration. Unless you see some reason against it, sir, I personally would have no objection to dealing with subparagraphs 1 and 2 and any amendments it may be wished to move there, and when we come to subparagraph 3 perhaps we could then consider directly the amendment moved last night.


That would be quite all right. We will defer study of the previous amendment and will consider subclauses 1 and 2. Therefore I put before the committee the amendment that has been proposed by the hon. member for Megantic.
26207-1-164
6,	1962
Corporations and Labour Unions


Mr. Chairman, I find some difficulty in accepting this amendment, because it seems to me that to delete the word "knowingly" would be to remove the element of mens rea which must be proven in any charge of a criminal nature. When I say "remove" it, perhaps that is going too far, but it would certainly leave that matter open to question. We feel that by the decision to have the dominion bureau of statistics as the initial repository of all returns and the permanent repository of part B returns, plus the changes which have now been suggested in subclauses 3 and 4 of this clause, we have adequately safeguarded the confidentiality of part B returns. I should hesitate very much indeed to create an offence of this nature which would not be affected by the use of the word "knowingly". I would have very real doubts whether to do that would not take away from the person who might be accused of such an action the ordinary defences that he would have with respect to a charge of a criminal nature.


Mr. Chairman, I do not have the legal knowledge of the minister, but it would seem to me that if we are going to make certain information as privileged as we are doing under section B in each part of the bill, then we certainly want to ensure that those people in the public service who have access to that privileged information have every right to protect themselves. It would seem that with the word "knowingly" we are placing a great onus upon the individual to prove his innocence rather than having the prosecution prove his guilt.
(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, I admit that where the word "knowingly" is used the opinion, thought or intention must be proven. It is then more difficult for a civil servant to defend himself. On the other hand, we must recognize that the object of this subclause is to safeguard confidential returns filed with the department.
And because of the word "knowingly" the government's counsel position is made much more difficult. It would be just as hard to prove that it was done knowingly than to prove perjury, because you would have to prove an intention.
It is only by way of an exception that we ask that the word "knowingly" be struck out of that clause, because we sincerely think that the accused must be protected.

Corporations and Labour Unions
But in the case of officials of a department, people who have heavy responsibilities, since they have access to the returns, and who are conscious of those responsibilities, I believe that we should be more strict with such persons than with somebody from the outside.
That is why we insist on the striking out, in paragraph 1, of the word "knowingly", or "sciemment" in the French version.
(Text):


Mr. Chairman, I appreciate very much the remarks made by the Minister of Justice when he said that the element of mens rea should be present in a criminal offence. With that I agree. This is the general principle on which our Criminal Code is based. However, I wish to reaffirm what I said before and what the hon. member for Hull has just said in French, that this bill is quite exceptional in that it more or less infringes on the liberty of companies and unions in the sense that the law is going to force these bodies to report to the government on their financial structures and this information is made confidential by virtue of clause 14.
If this were an ordinary bill I would not make such a request, but the full rights of the defence are deeply imbedded in our hearts in Canada. I feel that in this case, where people are forced by law to give this information, they must receive the fullest possible protection. I believe that in this way we will more fully protect the companies and the unions that are obliged to give this information to the government. It is in that sense that I should like the minister to think over the matter and accept the amendment to strike out the word "knowingly".


Mr. Chairman, if I were convinced that the removal of the word "knowingly" protected the companies and the unions more fully I might be disposed, to a greater extent than I find myself at the moment, to consider the amendment favourably. After all, what is the protection we want? The protection that the companies and unions want is not to see the civil servant prosecuted; they just do not want the information communicated at all. I cannot really see that taking out the word "knowingly" would give them increased protection because frankly, Mr. Chairman, I have enough confidence in the public service that when a statute contains a clear prohibition like this, they are going to be scrupulous to see to it that they do not act in breach of that prohibition.
What we do want, however, is a provision that if one wilfully, and that is imported by the word "knowingly", does so act then he should be liable to a heavy penalty. I do not believe that the removal of the word

"knowingly" is going to make the ordinary public servant much more careful. I do not believe it will deter the unscrupulous public servant, in the very rare case where he exists, whether or not we have the word "knowingly" in here. I do not know, therefore, that the removal of the word increases the protection. I think it might expose to a penalty a person who acted entirely accidentally and who had allowed this information to be communicated.
I am impressed by the fact that in none of the representations I received-and I received a number of them expressing concern with regard to the confidentiality of the information-was there a reference to the use of the word "knowingly". None of them requested the removal of the word "knowingly". I have just sent out for the Statistics Act, and it has now been placed before me. As is well known, the Statistics Act contains very strict safeguards with regard to the confidentiality of the information received under it. The bureau, under the Statistics Act, as I said before has built up an enviable reputation and an excellent relationship with those who file returns on the basis that they know the information will remain confidential. Section 39 of the Statistics Act reads:
Every person employed under this act who (a) wilfully discloses or makes known directly or indirectly to any person not entitled under this act or any regulation to receive the same, any information obtained by him in the course of his employment-
The Statistics Act, while it does not use the word "knowingly" does use the word "wilfully". I would hope, therefore, the hon. member would consider we would be justified in leaving the word "knowingly" in here.
Amendment negatived: Yeas, 9; nays, 37.
Subclause 1 of clause 14 agreed to.
Subclause 2 of clause 14 agreed to.


Subclause 3 is the one under which the amendment proposed last night by the Minister of Veterans Affairs may be discussed.
On subclause 3.


If this amendment carries, will it then dispose of all the clauses? Does it not delete the rest of the subclauses?


No; the amendment does call for some renumbering. I would think, in accordance with the arrangement we have been following, when the three specific subparagraphs in the amendment have been carried, we would go on to deal with the other subparagraph separately, presently numbered 5 which would become No. 7.

(Translation):


Mr. Chairman, I think that this clause is too wide, in that it allows too many persons to look into these confidential documents. The clause reads as follows:
(Text):
An official who is an officer or other person employed in the execution of any duty under the Statistics Act or any regulation thereunder may (a) communicate or allow to be communicated-
(Translation):
I think that is too comprehensive. Under this clause, all employees of a department, where there are thousands of them, could go through confidential returns. In this way the government puts some of them in a situation where they can use their status of employees to get the information they need.
I feel that is a bit too comprehensive, and I i i suggest that we should strike out the words "other persons".
(Text):


Without this amendment in new subparagraph 4 we would have a situation which would, in effect, stultify altogether the processing of the information which is being returned. We have now provided that the returns will be filed with the dominion bureau of statistics. They will be received by an official in the bureau of statistics. These returns obviously have to be processed in the bureau; they have to be passed from person to person in the bureau in order that they may be dealt with and processed. If we did not insert this provision (4>(a) which allows one official in the bureau of statistics to communicate with another official, then the return would stay in the mail clerk's hands and could not be passed along because of the operation of subparagraph 1 of this clause.
That is the simple reason. This is to avoid freezing it in one place with the person who first opened the mail. We had to provide the freedom to allow this information to be communicated from one official to another, but within the bureau the confidential parts will remain entirely confidential and will not be disclosed except in accordance with subparagraph 1 of this clause.


Perhaps the minister should accept the idea advanced with respect to this matter of communicating information. This would then leave the person who opens the mail free to dispose of the information in the wastepaper basket, which is as good a place as any for some of the useless information.


I admit that the minister is quite right, that the one who is called upon to open the mail may know of something in it, but as the clause is written it states "may communicate or allow to be communicated to an official or authorized person any priv-26207-1-164J
Corporations and Labour Unions ileged information obtained." It is generally the case that the one who opens the mail communicates the information. I really believe the provision is too wide for the protection of those who will be sending confidential reports to the government.


Unfortunately, from the point of view put forward by the hon. member, we are in the position that the act of manually passing documents from one person to another is an act of communication. Communication need not only be oral, and we would be literally freezing documents in the hands of the person who first received them unless we put in this provision removing that restriction.
i Amendment agreed to.
On renumbered subsection 7-Offence.


That includes subclauses 3, 4, 5, and 6, does it?


Yes.


This would be the four subclauses moved last night?


That is right.


In the other part of the bill we provided for a fine not exceeding $50, but I think in this clause we should provide for the protection of those who file confidential reports, stipulating a minimum fine and a minimum prison term. For this reason I move the following amendment:
After the word conviction in the third line "to a fine not less than one hundred dollars and not exceeding one thousand dollars or an imprisonment of a term of not less than one week and not exceeding three months, or both such fine and imprisonment."


I regret if the necessity of opposing this amendment makes me seem indisposed to consider these matters, but personally I feel very strongly that the philosophy now prevailing against the fixing of minimum sentences and penalties is the correct philosophy. Having provided the maximum that parliament wants to set, I believe punishment should be adjusted in accordance with the seriousness of the offence at the discretion of the court. Parliament is here providing quite substantial penalties, a fine of up to $1,000 and imprisonment for up to three months. Therefore parliament is indicating that a person who knowingly communicates this information is, in our view, guilty of a potentially serious offence. I do not think we should further tie the hands of the courts in assessing all the factors that are relevant and in imposing the appropriate penalties.
I do not oppose the amendment just because it is advanced by the hon. member for Hull. It is just because I find the principle involved in the amendment contrary to what I believe is sound in regard to penalties.
2568	HOUSE OF
Corporations and Labour Unions Mr. Howard: I agree with the minister in his contention about minimum sentences. That should be no concern of ours. A maximum sentence should be stipulated by parliament and the courts should be left free to impose sentences up to that maximum. However, before proceeding further perhaps the minister could indicate what penalties are contained in the Statistics Act.


The Statistics Act contains a provision that a person who wilfully discloses or uses any information for the purpose of speculating in any product or article-there are two offences here-is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 or a prison term not exceeding five years, or to both. It is pretty fierce.


I am more partial to what the minister is proposing in this bill. I think the penalty provided in the Statistics Act is overstringent.


It is pretty fierce.


Then if it is pretty fierce perhaps the minister will talk to his colleague, the Minister of Trade and Commerce, and influence him with his opinions about penology matters so that we can revise the Statistics Act sometime later.


I am sure all of us are sympathetic to what the minister said about criminology, but I wonder whether the government and the country really understand the extent to which information of a very special nature is now being placed in certain hands. A person who is able to gather highly secretive information may find it has a valuable sale value in unscrupulous areas.
Here we have the government peeking in on corporations and unions, and certain civil servants will be able to apprise themselves of many of the secrets of corporations and unions that heretofore have been in other hands. It would be a very simple and easy thing for this information to be gathered together and used in a completely unscrupulous way. As I said previously, we on this side of the house ask what is the purpose in this; because the gathering of this information in a special way is something new in our approach to legislation. Here we are no longer dealing with one or two ministers; we are really dealing with three. Now we have government with its eyes on the secret affairs of a great many corporations and unions, and it could be tremendously damaging to either for some information to be disclosed.
I wonder whether the minister cannot think of some other way in which there could be more effective teeth put in the bill to protect the secrecy, the privileged character of clause 14. Everything he has said we understand, 

and it makes sense, yet surely the effect of it is to permit highly confidential material to get out in a way which would damage those people interested.


The question is on the amendment. All those in favour of the amendment will please rise.


This is subclause 7?


Yes, this is renumbered subclause 7 and the amendment proposed by the hon. member for Hull.
Amendment (Mr. Caron) negatived: Yeas, 11; nays, 29.


I declare the amendment lost. Shall renumbered subclause 7 carry?
Renumbered subclause 7 as amended agreed to.
On renumbered subsection 8-Definitions. "Official"-"Authorized person".


Mr. Chairman, I think this is the worst clause in the bill. We see here:
"official" means any person employed in, or occupying a position of responsibility in, the service of Her Majesty, and includes any person formerly so employed or formerly occupying such a position,
The other paragraph of this subclause reads:
"authorized person" means any person engaged or employed, or formerly engaged or employed, by or on behalf of Her Majesty for any purpose relating to the administration or enforcement of this act.
So the bill goes as far as saying that anybody formerly employed by any department of the government comes within the provisions of this subclause, because it does not say "formerly employed only in the department of statistics". I think this is going much too far, because most of the people in the country could come in and ask to see what there is in most of these reports, and they could see them. Therefore it is really dangerous, and I cannot understand how the Minister of Justice could let this pass without asking that the clause be rephrased so as to provide greater protection for those who submit reports.
I do not want to make a long debate of this matter, but I move that the subclause be amended as follows:
(a)	"official" means any person employed in, or occupying a position of responsibility, authorized by the minister or deputy minister.
(b)	"authorized person" means any person employed by or on behalf of Her Majesty, authorized by the minister or the deputy minister for any purpose relating to the administration or enforcement of this act.


Moved by the hon. member for Hull that renumbered subclause 8 be amended as follows:
(a) "official" means any person employed in, or occupying a position of responsibility, authorized by the minister or deputy minister.

(b) "authorized person'' means any person employed by or on behalf of Her Majesty, authorized by the minister or the deputy minister for any purpose relating to the administration or enforcement of this act.
The question is on the amendment.


Mr. Chairman, the reason it is necessary to put in this definition subclause which we are now considering, referring to persons employed in or formerly occupying such a position, is in order to avoid the possibility that an official who received information while he was employed, and therefore being an official or person subject to the limitations as to disclosure contained in this bill, would by resigning no longer be an official and subject to the limitations contained herein and would be free to communicate that information or to use it for stock market purposes, and so on.
In other words, if we do not put in some provision such as this 