that the house go into committee at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to amend the Currency, Mint and Exchange Fund Act to authorize the Minister of Finance to purchase, out of the exchange fund account maintained under the act, securities of the international monetary fund.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
I wish to ask the Minister of National Defence whether, as reported in a press article, the Canada-U.S. joint defence committee has not met since July, 1960?


I cannot offhand recall the exact dates, Mr. Speaker, but I think it was somewhere in that area.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs if he has any comment to make on the recent statement of the British prime minister as to the attitude of the United Kingdom in its negotiations with the United States, agreeing with the Soviet union that the nuclear test discussions should be integrated with the general discussions on disarmament?


I would not care to comment on the statement by the British prime minister but, during the recent session of the United Nations, either General Burns or I suggested it might be worth while to have
that particular part of the disarmament subject dealt with in the general committee. In any event, we had no particular objection to it, so that is the course which has now been proposed by the west.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries and ask whether it is his intention to introduce any legislation this session based upon the recommendations of Dr. Sinclair with respect to licence limitations?


No decision has been reached in this regard, but it would seem unlikely. This would depend on the length of the session.


As a supplementary question, would the minister care to comment upon a Canadian Press dispatch relating to the minister's visit to the west coast last year, in which dispatch the minister is quoted as saying he is opposed to licence limitations.


Order. The hon. member seems to me to be seeking an expression of opinion rather than information in asking about something said by the minister a year ago. Furthermore, the urgency that is usually required of oral questions seems to be lacking, as there was ample opportunity since then to ask that question.


On the orders of the day:
May I direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the alleged unsafe condition of the air terminal at Sydney, Nova Scotia, would the minister please advise the house if there are any immediate plans to improve conditions there?


The airport at Sydney is in no way unsafe. I have had some representations from the hon. member for Cape Breton South (Mr. Maclnnis) relating to various improvements

Inquiries of the Ministry which could be undertaken at the airport, and these representations are being investigated by my department at the present time.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Transport (Mr. Balcer) a question. Could he give us a progress report on negotiations between the Canadian government and the British government with regard to some announcements he made in this house during the last session concerning some restrictions on inland or coastal traffic, which was to be limited to vessels sailing under the Canadian flag?


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to announce to the house that the United Kingdom government, as was provided in the treaty, has agreed to serve as go-between with the other signatories so as to inform them of the Canadian government's intentions and ask for their approval of this government's decision.
I am happy to report that up to now Australia, Ceylon, Malaya and Sierra Leone gave their agreement to that decision. New Zealand and Ghana have unofficially indicated that they were about to transmit their agreement. We still have to hear from Nigeria, Cyprus and the Irish Republic, but we are expecting an answer very soon.


Is the minister able to tell us when the new regulations will be enacted?


Mr. Speaker, as I said during the last session, for the government's intentions to take effect legislation will have to be introduced during the current session. As soon as the last signatory of the treaty will send us his approval, the appropriate bill will be submitted to the house.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct to the spokesman for the Minister of Agriculture a question prompted by concern among the laid-off elevator workers at the lakehead over the fact that there are in lake-head elevators this year 18 million fewer


bushels of wheat than there were last year. Can the minister give an explanation for this situation or can he give any assurance that this empty space will be filled before the shipping season opens?


I find it rather difficult to answer this question offhand, Mr. Speaker, but I will make inquiries from the department and have an answer for the hon. member tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday, Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Kootenay West (Mr. Herridge) asked me what steps have been taken to promote interest on the part of provincial governments in the development of a proposed national power grid. I stated my recollection was that a letter had been sent to the premiers of the various provinces.
In that letter I pointed out that there are substantial advantages for the nation as a whole that could be achieved in the development and use of electric energy if approached on a regional and national basis and that the establishment of long distance transmission facilities between provinces, and ultimately between the different regions of Canada, would make possible the development of hydro electric sources in remote locations that would otherwise be deferred for many years or not developed at all.
I expressed the belief that interprovincial connections and arrangements would make possible substantial economies in reserves and in capital requirements, and would be of benefit to industry and to consumers generally.
I further pointed out that the government of Canada, owing to the nature of the problem, would be glad to assist in its study and solution. It affects the nation as a whole as well as each of the provinces and the relations between provinces. To that end, in view of these circumstances, I expressed the view that a conference should be convened where the provincial ministers primarily involved, accompanied by their technical officers and power advisers, could discuss with federal ministers the basic problems associated with the development and transmission of electric power within Canada. I expressed the hope that such a meeting, if agreed to, could be

convened at Ottawa at an early date. I have asked the views of the provincial premiers and when their response is received, the house will be advised further.


The house resumed from Wednesday, January 24, consideration of the motion of Mr. Rodrigue Bourdages for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Pearson.
Mr. Speaker, it is a great compliment to a backbencher to be interrupted by experienced members of the house. I had this privilege yesterday, as recorded on page 170 of Hansard, when the house leader of the New Democratic party made one of his negative remarks. I was not surprised because we have never had anything but negative remarks from that corner of the house or from those who sit to their left. The hon. member for Assiniboia (Mr. Argue) suggests that we can get rid of all our problems by merely getting rid of the Prime Minister (Mr. Diefenbaker) and his government. I suggest that is not our problem but rather, as the present government has done, we must do more to get rid of surpluses as we have done with our surplus wheat.
Our Liberal friends are also negative. They appear to agree entirely with such criticism. They offer nothing but negative criticism. The hon. member for Burin-Burgeo (Mr. Carter) said that it is treason to sell wheat to red China.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I did not say that at all. I said that in time of war it is treason to sell to an enemy.


I believe you have confirmed what I have said. Getting rid of our surplus grain when there is a surplus is something very close to our hearts in western Canada. It is not only important to western farmers but it is important to the whole economy of our country to keep our ships busy, our railroads busy, the dock workers in Vancouver busy and to reduce storage costs. We have been accused of gambling with the Canadian taxpayers' money. I would venture to say that the money we save on storage of this grain alone will make up for any possible loss on delivering the grain to China.
But enough about grain. I think the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson) and the leader of the left-wing party should concentrate on getting rid of other things than the Prime Minister and the present government. I should
The Address-Mr. Bigg like to see them help us get rid of the idea that Canada owes us a living. We owe Canada a great loyalty, the loyalty of labour. I should like to suggest that the time is now ripe when the federal government should take some steps to establish a labour code for Canada. We do not want to dictate to labour but it seems necessary that by adding to the bill of rights or by means of some other federal statute we give support to the workers of Canada, the man who wants to work. I suggest five points that might be covered in such a labour code.
I think we should guarantee workers the secret ballot. Democracy is a farce without the secret ballot. I think we should regain control of our unions by seeing that the headquarters of all unions are in Canada and that any recognition of international unions is no more than, shall I say, a spiritual one. The real control of unions should be within Canada. Their headquarters should be here and the dues should be paid here. No man in Canada should have to pay dues to a union, whether or not he belongs to it, except as a matter of choice. Having paid those dues, he should have the right to have the books audited, the same as any other organization.
I think we should eliminate the criminal element in our unions in Canada by barring persons from holding office or by saying we will not deal with men who have a criminal record within the past five years covering certain crimes such as violence to the person, sedition and riot. I am not going into the specific details, but the working people of Canada know this is essential. I should like to see the time come when we would step out in front and give the working people this basic freedom to elect their own officers and make sure they have the right kind of officers.
Then, too, I feel before a union has the right to call workers out on strike there should be a secret ballot taken. If they do go on strike then, from time to time during that strike, another ballot should be held to ascertain whether or not the workers are willing to subject their families and themselves to the economic strains of remaining out on strike beyond a reasonable length of time. I think this can be done. The constitutional angles can be worked out, and we should go on record as saying that we will give the working men of Canada the same fundamental rights which we preserve for every other segment of our community.
There are other things which are required, when we look to the future. Transportation across Canada will remain one of our major problems. When a second trans-Canada highway is built-I know it will be built and you know it will be built-I believe we should take a good look at it to make sure it


Mr. Speaker, first of all I should like to associate myself with those previous speakers who have congratulated on their promotion some of our colleagues to your right, and I refer in particular to the hon. member for Pontiac-Temiscamingue (Mr. Martineau) and the hon. member for Quebec South (Mr. Flynn).
As for the others, the forgotten ones, those who had ambitions but who had to remain inconspicuous, I sympathize with them, more
The Address-Mr. Deschatelets especially as it seems quite obvious today, on the eve of an election, that they have missed the boat for a one-way trip.
Mr. Speaker, the present government has been charged with lack of leadership. I rather think that will be the characteristic of the Conservative administration, whose term of office is about to expire, and especially its inability to take a stand squarely and firmly and to propose solutions to the problems we are now facing in Canada, when those problems first came up.
In such a context, the speech from the throne did not disappoint us. In fact, it does not indicate at all in what way the government intends to make up the astronomical deficit of nearly a billion dollars which we are going to show. Nor does it mention how the government intends to readjust our economy in terms of the common market. In short, apart from the winter works program which we have often denounced as inadequate, the speech from the throne does not mention anything, not a single long term or short term measure capable of putting to work a substantial proportion of our unemployed.
The speech from the throne does not say a thing about the government's position in the field of nuclear weapons. The silence of the speech from the throne on the matter of nuclear weapons is ample proof that we were justified in the criticism we levelled against this government last year when we said that it had no defence policy.
Furthermore, the speech from the throne does not propose any concrete measure to promote national unity at a time when confederation is subject to a large-scale assault.
Last Monday, the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson), in a speech which can be considered as extraordinary, and which has been commented on in the press all over the country, expressed not only the deception but the discontent both of the opposition and of a majority of Canadian citizens, because we are in this rather extraordinary position where about 50 Liberal members of the opposition are now able to speak on behalf of the majority of Canadian voters, as is shown by the latest Gallup polls conceding to the Liberal party a much more considerable proportion of the votes than to the Conservative government, which does not represent anything any more, although it is still in power.
Mr. Speaker, issues are not lacking today, but I shall limit my remarks to only two of them. First, unemployment, and then national unity.

The Address-Mr. Deschatelets
I want to raise the question of unemployment because I represent a constituency mostly made up of industrial workers and also because the unpopularity of the government is mostly the result of its inaction concerning that question of national importance. But before coming to that point, I should like to go back a little so that there is no misunderstanding, and quote figures which were given in a speech by the hon. member for Laurier (Mr. Chevrier) when, on March 2, 1960, he quoted the official figures supplied by the dominion bureau of statistics for the period 1946-56 concerning unemployment during that 10-year span of Liberal administration. And I do not hesitate to quote these figures since they were then given in the presence of the Minister of Labour (Mr. Starr) who asked one or two questions, but did not dare question those figures.
Well, the hon. member for Laurier established and proved that the annual percentage of unemployed in Canada, in comparison with the labour force, from 1946 to 1956, was never any higher than 2.8 per cent. You will recall that according to experts, you have full employment when unemployment is only 3 per cent of the labour force. Those figures are indisputable. Therefore it is a fact that for the 1946-56 period, in terms of average annual percentage, there was full employment in Canada, and that was under a Liberal administration.
And that was the situation when the Conservative government took over the affairs of this country. Since then, everyone knows that unemployment has reached astronomical proportions which compare easily with the figures for the 1930-35 period. Astonishingly enough, the government has always been helpless and unable to find at least a partial solution to the problem, despite considerable administrative deficits which now amount to $2 billion.


You are talking about the Lesage government.


And I would say that none of those deficits included expenditures directly intended to solve the unemployment problem. There is no direct expenditure meant to solve this problem with the exception, of course, of the amounts spent for winter works. And even now seasonal unemployment is mentioned. Referring to the speech from the throne, I find at page 2 of Hansard for January 18, the following sentence:
-notable progress has been made in meeting the problem of seasonal unemployment.
I am very anxious to hear at election time
the Conservative members, especially in


urban constituencies, tell the Canadian workers that we have had seasonal unemployment from 1958 until today.


Let Mr. Lesage take-


At this time, it is the first problem-


Let Mr. Lesage take his responsibilities.


If my hon. friend has any question to ask, he will have every opportunity of doing so a little later, but I wish to say this. My hon. friend has already taken part in the debate on the speech from the throne and he was wise enough not to mention the unemployment question.
Mr. Speaker, after reading that sentence in the speech from the throne, I say that even now the government is still trying to deceive the country, to minimize a problem which has lost nothing of its seriousness, and I will prove it with figures, one of which was given to me by the Minister of Labour himself. To make my task a little more difficult, I shall use only the statistics for last November 30.
Through sampling, the dominion bureau of statistics established that on November 30 there were 349,000 unemployed in this country. This figure represents about 5J per cent of the labour force. It is already high for that month of the year. I mentioned earlier that I represent a labour riding, that I am familiar with the situation and that I do not admit that the figure of 349,000 tells the true story.
I contacted the Minister of Labour and asked him to give me the number of unemployed receiving unemployment insurance benefits as of November 30. The letter I got from the minister shows that, as of November 30, 385,964 unemployed were receiving unemployment insurance benefits. There was, therefore, 36,900 unemployed receiving unemployment benefits over and above the figure given by the dominion bureau of statistics.
Therefore, I say that if approximately 386,000 unemployed were drawing unemployment insurance benefits in November, those people had met several requirements provided under the law: they had worked, they had lost their job for reasons beyond their control; in short, they were eligible for unemployment insurance benefits.
If there were 386,000 unemployed on November 30, I should like to know how many there were then who were not entitled to unemployment insurance benefits for various reasons. That figure has never been disclosed.

I said earlier that the government, bymeans of a subtle policy, attempted to minimize the importance of this problem, to conceal its actual acuteness.
It will be recalled that for the past year or year and a half, the Minister of Labour (Mr. Starr) has not given us every month the statistics released by the national employment service whereas, under the previous government, we were provided with all available data and their interpretation was left to each individual.
I made enquiries with unemployment insurance experts. Last year, I stated that with the help of experts, I was ready to place that evidence at any time before the industrial relations committee which has not sat for the last four years. Indeed, it is the only committee of the house which has not convened except for the setting up of the committee at the beginning. That committee would have been best suited to deal with Canada's most important domestic problems.
To sum up, on November 30 we had 386,000 unemployed who received benefits, that is genuine unemployed. In addition to that, the number of unemployed who received no benefits, because they had been unable to prove that they were entitled to them, is estimated at 128,666. So as a grand total we had the impressive figure of 514,666 unemployed in Canada last November 30.
Mr. Speaker, if to that already huge total for the month of November you add the wives and children of those unemployed, that is the Canadian citizens who suffer from that evil, you reach a figure that surely indicates the national significance of that problem.
Let no one ever tell you that the Prime Minister and the Conservative government have kept their promises, at least the most important promises that were made to the Canadian people.
As I said a moment ago, I challenge the Prime Minister to go in any urban riding in Canada today and claim that he fulfilled his commitments as far as unemployment is concerned. And he had made the firm commitment that "No one shall suffer", and this statement will constitute a backfiring slogan in the forthcoming election.
Let us examine the defence offered by the government since last year to the charge that they showed nothing but inertia in the solution of the most important domestic problem we face. I followed and I read again
The Address-Mr. Deschatelets with amusement the claims of the Secretary of State (Mr. Noel Dorion), the Associate Minister of National Defence (Mr. Pierre Sevigny), who for a year and a half have been campaigning up hill and down dale instead of staying in their office and looking after the affairs and the problems of their departments. They made comments about unemployment which were utterly irresponsible. And I am going to try refuting them.
The Secretary of State and the Associate Minister of National Defence made the following statements:
1.	The present unemployment situation (they said this at practically all the meetings where they spoke) must be blamed on the former government.
2.	It is the result of unforeseen and unforeseeable circumstances.
Let us look into the first reason advanced, i.e. that "the former government must be blamed."
Earlier today, I quoted indisputable figures to the effect that, in the decade from 1946 to 1956 the average annual unemployment did not exceed 2.8 per cent of the total labour force. This is based on irrefutable figures. Moreover, I shall advance this argument, which is also unassailable. When we left office in 1957, we had an amount of $926 million in the unemployment insurance fund. Now, if there had been massive unemployment under our administration, why was such a large amount left in the fund?
As to the second reason alleged, it is slightly more subtle: "The unforeseeable and unforeseen circumstances which the government had to face."
I should like to turn against the Prime Minister (Mr. Diefenbaker), as a boomerang, a feat that he likes to recall, namely the reading in January 1958 of the report on Canada's economic prospects. This is a fact that should be emphasized today, after the government has been four years in office, because when the Prime Minister read to the house in January 1958 a report on economic prospects, he could at that time attempt to throw confusion just before a general election. All the same when he read that document, he acknowledged publicly that clouds were piling up on the horizon. Today, four years later, his ministers cannot plead ignorance.
I apologize for taking up so much time on this academic discussion, Mr. Speaker, because there is only one thing that matters and it is that the present government was elected on definite promises, and got the support of 208 members of parliament. When it came into

The Address-Mr. Deschatelets office, it received a rich inheritance. There were $926 million in the unemployment insurance fund.


Unemployment was then on the rise.


We had reduced the debt by more than $2 billion following numerous surpluses. As early as 1958, there was nothing to stop the present government from taking energetic steps, as was its duty, to face existing problems.
I submit that if, way back in 1958, the government had followed the suggestion made by the Leader of the Opposition-nobody can refute that-and substantially reduced taxes instead of increasing long term expenditures, we would not be in the tight spot in which we find ourselves today.
I cannot blame the government for trying to delay the general elections. How could a Conservative member justify before his electors the inertia of his government after the four years it has been in power?
In the speech he made to move the adoption of the address in reply to the speech from the throne, the member for Laval (Mr. Bourdages) stressed the importance of national unity. That is the second point I wish to deal with. That is a very important question especially in present conditions. But if we want to obtain tangible results, the first requirement whenever we speak of national unity is to speak with conviction.
It is essential that a political party preaching national unity at least be a party representative of national unity. Mr. Speaker, in 1958, during the first session, I said that the Conservative party was not representative of national unity, but a party where could be found reactionary and opposing tendencies. Subsequent developments proved that I was right. We all remember that last fall, as he does even now, the hon. member for Rober-val (Mr. Tremblay) denounced confederation; does this not prove that I am right?
If we examine certain speeches made in this house during the Suez crisis in December, 1956, for instance, the speech made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Green) and by Conservative members then sitting in the first row, we find that the contentions and ideas of the hon. member for Roberval on national unity are completely opposed to those of the leader of his party.
Therefore, how can a political party, comprising such diverse elements now preach on national unity, especially when one of the Conservative leaders, a few years ago-and I am talking here of the Minister of Veterans


Affairs (Mr. Churchill)-claimed that the support of the province of Quebec was not needed to get a Conservative government elected?
I hope the Prime Minister will remember that most of the Conservative members in Quebec were elected with the full support of the Union Nationale, and I find most extraordinary the efforts of the Secretary of State, for instance, who tries to deny something that is common knowledge and that he, himself, should be the first to admit.
I have also here a letter addressed by the member for Gaspe (Mr. English) to the Hon. Mr. Duplessis after his election, and in which he thanks the premier for the work done by the Quebec liquor board police.
Mr. Speaker, we have witnessed in this House of Commons the consequences of that situation no later than last year-


Mr. Speaker, I would like-


Is the member rising on a point of order?


Mr. Speaker, I should like the hon. member to read into Hansard the contents of the letter he has just referred to. I have no intention of defending the Hon. Mr. Duplessis, but I have always been one of his good friends and it seems to me that I can be proud to say so in this house. However, I should like to acquaint myself with the letter which the hon. member for Maisonneuve-Rosemont (Mr. Deschatelets) has just referred to.


Mr. Speaker, I am willing to read this letter for I have it right before me. However, I would not like the time taken for this to be counted in the limited speaking time at my disposal. I will gladly read the letter if I am given a little extra time.


You have already wasted 15 minutes.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.
The hon. member for Maisonneuve-Rose-mont has just referred to a letter and he knows very well that he is not entitled to do so unless he produces such letter or reads the full contents of it. Otherwise, that would be the equivalent of innuendos-


He is an expert on the matter.


I regret to interrupt an interesting debate but I must inform the hon. member for Maisonneuve-Rosemont that his time is up.


You will be more serious next time.


The press is always wrong.


Mr. Deputy Speaker, first of all I should like to tell the house how glad I am to see that our distinguished Speaker (Mr. Michener) is still presiding over the proceedings of this house.
I should like also to take this opportunity to congratulate you very sincerely on your appointment as Deputy Speaker of the house.
May I also extend my most sincere congratulations to the mover and seconder of the address in reply to the speech from the throne, Messrs. Bourdages and Browne (Van-couver-Kingsway), as well as to my great friend the hon. member for Quebec South (Mr. Flynn), our new Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys.
I also extend my heartfelt congratulations to my colleague from St. Hyacinthe-Bagot (Mr. Ricard) on his appointment as parliamentary secretary to the Prime Minister (Mr. Diefenbaker).


The Prime Minister should have appointed you also.
(Text):


I have hardly got under way, Mr. Speaker, and the hon. member for Essex East (Mr. Martin) is interrupting me. We meet today in a very different House of Commons from that in which members met a number of years ago. Why? Because the members who support the present government are active members of parliament who travel to every corner of this country to keep in touch with the people. We meet in a different House of Commons today because the people of Canada are more interested in what is going on here than they have ever been before.
Why are the people of Canada more interested? Simply because as a result of the actions taken by the government the House of Commons in which we meet today has at last been restored to its proper role in the public affairs of this country. In comparison with days gone by, I ask hon. members to look at our attitude as displayed in the speech from the throne with regard to redistribution, closure and all those things that make this House of Commons a more central and active body in our public affairs. That is the reason. It is something that is hard to pinpoint but I ask everybody to stop, think and compare the role that the House of Commons is playing in our national affairs today with that played
The Address-Mr. Grafftey seven or eight years ago. I repeat that the people of Canada are interested in what is going on here because the doors of the cabinet are open. Members of parliament are working and by a sincere approach to parliamentary rights this institution has been restored to its proper place in Canadian public affairs. (Translation):
Mr. Speaker, we must remain as it is, because the Progressive Conservative party, under the leadership of our eminent Prime Minister (Mr. Diefenbaker), will always keep in touch with the Canadian people. I repeat, we shall always keep in touch with the Canadian people. In fact, during both periods after the last two sessions, each member toured his constituency. So I repeat that we are the party of the people; the voice of the people will always remain our strength. (Text):
I will not be so presumptuous, Mr. Speaker, as to lecture the opposition today. I could not do so and I would not. I also agree very often with what the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson) says, that they are not responsible for policy and sometimes I thank God that this is so. It is the government that is responsible for policy. I also realize that the word "bipartisanship" is often very loosely used. Perhaps we bandy it about too loosely. For my own part, nobody likes more than I do a purely political combat both within the House of Commons and outside the house when there is a sincere difference of opinion on the administration of public policy.


You are too tough for your opponents.


I am sure the hon. member for Essex East, like myself, has a sincere love for good, honest, clean, political warfare when there is a sincere difference of opinion.


I say you are
too tough.


But I want to put one thought before the House of Commons today. What has the party of divide and rule been doing lately? I have always said and I say again that there are two fields with regard to which the major parties in the house should have a basic, united approach. One relates to our prestige abroad; the other relates to national unity at home. As a young man, before I came into the house of Commons I said to my friends and also publicly that I would never use national unity or our prestige abroad as political weapons. But what has the Leader of the Opposition been doing lately? What has he been doing lately in the province of Quebec? He is against joint

The Address-Mr. Grafftey federal-provincial programs in that province, but outside of the province of Quebec he is in favour of them.


Quote him.


I do not have to quote him.
I just have to ask hon. members to look at the speech he made in Amherst, Nova Scotia, and his other speeches outside the province of Quebec. Has he ever made such speeches in the province of Quebec? No, because he is still a captive of the old divide and rule boys.
(Translation):
We advocate the same policy for all Canadians throughout this vast country, Mr. Speaker. I am not "Martin" in the province of Quebec and "Martin" in the province of Ontario: I may say in all sincerity that I am Grafftey in every Canadian province.


This was also the statement of your former chief, Mr. Duplessis.


I would not say that the party of Cartier and Macdonald is the only party of national unity, but I do say that we have sincerely and actively supported the true spirit of national unity, every single day, every single week and every single year. I reiterate that we advocate the same policy for each part of this country.
(Text):
The other subject is our prestige abroad. I understand that the subject of Suez was brought up in speeches a few days ago. A few years ago there was an honest and sincere difference of opinion on the subject of Suez between the two major parties in the House of Commons, but I should like to put this thought before the house. On major matters involving international affairs the then secretary of state for external affairs at all times received nothing but bipartisan support from all members of the present government and Conservatives generally from one end of the country to the other. We united, put country before party at all times, and never washed our dirty linen outside of the Canadian family circle.
One who has read Canadian history with any degree of care must admit that after confederation in 1867 we really did not have too many basic and fundamental problems abroad. I think that is perhaps quite true of many young countries not long joined together by confederation or which have recently achieved nationhood. To put it briefly, we did not have too many axes to grind abroad. Today, however, there is a different picture. Canada is playing a greater and greater role in world affairs. For example,
[Mr. Grafftey.}
there are the problems with respect to the common market. We also are aware of the position the opposition has taken when we have had these problems abroad.
I say to the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson) and to all members of his party, that as Canada is becoming a more adult nation in the family of nations on the world scene, it will not be helpful to our prestige abroad if every time we are faced with a problem, before a practical solution is even suggested- oh, I admit again we are responsible for the solution of these problems-they say, "Oh, we are losing prestige abroad. Is it not a terrible thing?" I suggest that by sowing these seeds abroad the Liberal party, under their present leader, are doing that which we never did during the war and post-war years.
In Brome-Missisquoi, from where I come, the two historical ethnic groups that formed Canada in confederation live side by side in greatest harmony. I am going to be very frank with all hon. members. We all know, we can talk about it openly right here today, that the question of separatism is being discussed quite widely within the province of Quebec. It is being discussed here, it is being discussed there. It is being discussed on television, on public platforms, just as it has in years gone by. The very minute the subject was brought up, what happened? We heard the same old story. The divide and rule boys rushed into the province of Quebec and said, "Oh, national unity was never at a lower ebb." Again, they are putting party before country. I sincerely hoped, Mr. Speaker, that this was the sort of subject I would never have to touch upon when, as a young man, I was elected as a member of parliament to this House of Commons. However, such action on my part has been made necessary by the course that the Leader of the Opposition has taken in directing the activities of his party.
We have heard the expression "national unity" bandied about by many members of the opposition. The party of Macdonald and Cartier, the party now directed by the Right Hon. J. G. Diefenbaker has, in this modern day and age, done more for national unity in the last four or five years than any party before it. I say definitely that the provinces- I do not like to use the expression because it sounds almost as if one were doing the provinces a favour-have never received better treatment. However, I will say this, that the attitudes of this government have caused better dominion-provincial relations than ever before. I think it would be right to say that if one chose to look at a few statistics in the Department of Finance he would see that the provinces have received better treatment from this government than from any government before. Realizing that the municipalities have

great problems by our winter works program and by our legislation in relation to housing we have done more than any preceding government to put the municipalities of this nation on a sound basis.
With this in view, sir, 1 should like to suggest for the consideration of the government the establishment of an agency of government which might be known as an agency of provincial-municipal affairs. It has been suggested that we might have a permanent secretariat for the continuing dominion-provincial conferences. Also, it might be wise to have the same central agency for so many of the joint dominion-provincial programs which need so much assistance and co-operation. We see also many taxation and housing problems facing the municipalities. We see from the federal government the municipal winter works incentive program. It is with this in mind that I have suggested at the present time the advisability of establishing an agency of provincial-municipal affairs. I noticed that in the United States the president has tried to pilot through congress approval of the nomination of a secretary of urban affairs. It is not just because of that, however, that I make this proposal for the government's attention. I do suggest that, in the Canadian scene, what I have said merits some consideration.
Many people have said, Mr. Speaker, that the next election will be fought on the basis of free enterprise versus public ownership or pure socialism. Reference was made to this by our leader, and by the leaders of other parties as well as many others outside parliament. Well, this is certainly going to be one of the major issues in the next election campaign. On this subject I do not even pretend to speak for my party or my government, but for a few brief moments I should like to touch on this very important topic. Today, sir, the choice is not one between free enterprise and state ownership; it is a question of degree. How much state ownership should there be and how much free enterprise?
Before getting into my very brief discussion of this point which divides the major parties of this house, I should like to make a few general remarks. I think we will all admit that before the turn of the century, and before the rise of trade unions, old time free enterprise displayed many irresponsible attributes. In the old world, and I think a lot of us are very sorry when we think of this, there was much bitter cleavage between the owners and the workers, the haves and the have nots. It is my firm impression that, for good or for bad, it was in this bitter atmosphere that old world socialism was born. I firmly believe today that the New Democratic party and the
The Address-Mr. Grafftey Liberals are attempting to apply old world doctrines of the past to new world realities. They are adhering to outmoded conventions in the new world where there is no class bitterness, even though I would be the first to admit we have much progress to make in pushing back the frontiers of want.
Then, I am sure the members of the opposition are going to ask me what the members of our party stand for? For many years we have said that where, in the national interest, an economic activity is desirable and private enterprise cannot or will not initiate it, then the government can and should provide the necessary stimulus for the initiation of that activity. This is one of the principles to which we have always adhered. But we believe that in many cases individual Canadians know what is best for them. You cannot legislate to change the hearts of men. Unlike the Liberals or the New Democratic party, we do not possess the arrogance to believe we can always tell the individual what is best for him or her.
These are the basic differences of degree which I think should be made clear, because that is what is in the hearts of those of us who believe in this development of the free enterprise system. We believe where there is government there must be planning. Those who oppose us in the House of Commons appear to think we are for a hodge-podge of non-planning.
That which divides us from hon. members opposite is simply this: we do not believe you should have planning and government in as many places as they would like to have them. We plan and we govern where necessary. I believe that the Liberals and the New Democratic party would like to plan and govern for the sake of planning and governing.
We believe that government is of the people. Their attitude to the whole business of socialism versus free enterprise, in degree, is based on the fact that they have become detached from the realities of 20th century life. I think they have become detached from the people, in fact.


Would my hon. friend permit a question?


Yes.


Does my hon. friend agree with the view of the late Arthur Meighen, that the Conservative party in recent days has abandoned its traditional position and has become quite socialistic?


I could not accept that quote verbatim, but I would say this: I will agree quite sincerely, yes. I will agree that in so far as the Conservative party is not the
184	HOUSE OF COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Grafftey captive of doctrine, the way you are, we can abandon fields of activity. We are not the captive slaves of doctrine.


It is a question of degree.


It is a question of degree. I am quite sure that we as Conservatives often use the expression. "Maybe our grandfathers would roll over in their graves if they could see what we are doing now."


They sure would.


But we are still not abandoning our principles. The trouble with the Liberals and the New Democratic party is that their change in degree is very different. You are captives of your doctrines.
Those things which move the present administration are based on our high degree of respect for the individual and individual rights. I put the following proposition before each and every hon. member. The spark from heaven-who picks it up? The crowd, never: the individual, always.
Conservative action and principles do not concern themselves with idealistic doctrine. We are not the captives of a doctrine. We concern ourselves with the individual, the rights of the individual and those things which make a free individual in a free enterprise economy. These are differences in degree which are very important.
We also recognize that free enterprise, when it is free, as opposed to public ownership, is often regulated by government. Let us admit that the government sets the rules of the game. We also understand that by proper planning even a Conservative administration has a large, proper and important role to play in the public sector of the economy.
We recognize that the provinces have a great need for schools; the municipalities have a great need for houses; the provinces have a great need for roads. We recognize that in this day and age-some people think, for good or bad: I think, for good-government has a large and important role to play in planning the public sector of the economy. We admit that the government, by its taxation policies, may affect the whole economy. By its policies, regulations and action it can encourage free, individual, private enterprise. I also say that the government has its responsibilities in economic growth, in what we always talk about as a steady growth of the annual gross national product.
With other levels of government, municipal governments and provincial governments, let us all admit that the federal government obviously has responsibilities in this public sector of the economy. But we say we differ from the Liberals. In order to put their

program before the people, Mr. Pearson and Mr. Lamontagne, and all those who have been speaking lately, would use such a high degree of state regulation and control that we would be living under worse than wartime conditions. We do not believe, although we are living in very tense days, this is at all the right thing to do in a democratic country. That is all there is to it.
I repeat myself and I say this. In Canada we have a civil service that is second to none and I am very proud of it, as is every other Canadian. We have a great civil service. But this is not thanks to the present Liberal opposition. When we talk about the old bureaucrats coming in and wanting to take over, we just mean that a number of years ago, in the post-war years, by political interference with the top ranks of the administration, no party in the history of this country did more than the Liberal party to change the proper balance of power within this country. We saw the unholy spectacle of senior politicians jumping into senior posts of the administration and within a very short time, as if nothing was wrong with it, they jumped right back again into the political arena. Nothing damaged the spirit of the parliamentary rights of a proper democracy in this country more than that performance.
What do we see now? I see this even in my own constituency. I see this type of bureaucrat, who was not a credit to the public affairs of this country, coming out into the partisan, political field. These are the type of men who are controlling the Liberal party today. These are the type of men who think, "Oh, the heck with the people; we will govern anyway". You remember, "Who is going to stop us?" They say, "We will tell the people what is good for them". They do not ask the people what they think they should have. They say, "They do not know what is good for them. We are going to tell them what they should have anyway". They are far removed from the people.
That is the Liberal attitude. That is the attitude today on the top rungs of the Liberal party, a party that has forgotten its lesson, a party that is still so removed from the people that it accepts the points of view of former senior bureaucrats now in the active political arena who would like to impose this whole type of regulatory state control on the Canadian people and this House of Commons. That is the sort of closure attitude that we saw in earlier days. That was the whole attitude of years gone by. But the Canadian people will not be fooled by it again.
This party has often said it was a mistake to attempt to transfer Liberal doctrine from

the old world to the new. There is one thing they have transferred. The old world Liberalism was born in Malthusian and Ricardian gloom. They have certainly transferred this gloom to the new world. They are so gloomy that they do not think the people know what is best for them. They are so gloomy that they do not think this is a united country. They are so gloomy that they do not think we have any prestige abroad. But the people know better.


Order. I regret to inform the hon. member that his time has expired.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, the youthful and buoyant member for Brome-Missisquoi (Mr. Grafftey) will excuse me, I trust, if I do not try to follow him in his meanderings, in his twisted arguments, and more particularly in the inconsistent views he just now expressed in his speech.
According to parliamentary usage, Mr. Speaker, I would like to tender my congratulations to the mover and seconder of the address in reply to the speech from the throne, the hon. members for Laval (Mr. Bourdages) and for Vancouver-Kingsway (Mr. Browne), for their excellent contribution to this debate.
I also want to take this opportunity and congratulate the new Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys (Mr. Flynn). We have known him at work as deputy speaker. We did not always like his decisions, but we nevertheless wish him every success in his new and important responsibilities.
As for you, Mr. Deputy Speaker, all I have to do is to ext