Fifth report of standing committee on banking and commerce-Mr. Cathers.
Miss	Margaret Aitken (York-Humber)
presented the second report of the standing committee on standing orders, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Hon.	Gordon Churchill	(Minister	ofVeterans Affairs) moved that the first report of the special committee appointed to consider with Mr.	Speaker the	procedure	of
this house, presented Tuesday, April 10, 1962, be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Hon.	Donald	M. Fleming	(Minister	of
Finance): I wish to table a report which I have received from the tariff board. This is the board's report on reference No. 128 relating to engineers' and architects' plans, drawings and blueprints. I am tabling copies of the report in English and French, and also a transcript of the evidence taken at the public hearings.
This report contains recommendations relating both to rates of duty and to the method of determining the value for duty of plans, drawings, and blueprints. The report is being carefully studied.
Mr. Speaker, I have an announcement to make which I believe represents a new breakthrough in Canada's welfare system.
26207-1-184
I have today written provincial ministers informing them of the government's intention to initiate a new program of welfare grants designed to assist in overcoming major deficiencies in our present nation-wide network of welfare services. By 1967 these grants will result in the channelling of $2,500,000 annually in federal funds into the fields of general welfare, professional training, and research. Nothing like this has ever been done in Canada before, and I hope there will be discussions with provincial authorities in the near future with a view to obtaining their full co-operation in an endeavour which I believe will strengthen tremendously Canada's welfare efforts.
There are two separate grants involved. The one pertaining to general welfare and professional training will commence at a level of $450,000 for 1962-63 and increase at the rate of $450,000 annually for five years, reaching $2,250,000 by 1966-67. The other grant respecting welfare research will begin at a level of $50,000 in 1962-63 and increase at the rate of $50,000 annually for five years, reaching an amount of $250,000 in 1966-67. Funds for the current fiscal year will be provided through a supplementary estimate.
This new program will be complemented by the establishment of a national council of welfare, as announced in the speech from the throne. I hope to make a statement very shortly indicating the membership of the council, one of whose first tasks will be to assist in working out the details of the new grants system. As I have indicated previously, I would also like the council to consider a number of other important social security matters such as the development of a new and integrated approach to public assistance, and the need for an increase in the level of benefits under family allowances along with the question of raising the age limit at which such allowances are paid in the case of children who are still attending school.
In taking these historic initiatives in relation to welfare, the government is anxious to furnish a balance to the emphasis which has long been placed on the provision of cash benefits. Income maintenance payments such as old age assistance, blindness and disability allowances, and unemployment assistance are vitally important, but in many instances their effectiveness has been reduced to some extent by the shortage of human resources

Health and Welfare
necessary to implement them fully. The welfare grants and the new council will, we believe, go a long way toward giving a more positive impact to these measures.
As far as the welfare research grant is concerned, we have seen the benefits which have accrued from scientific research in many fields, including health. We feel that similar gains may well be registered as a result of concentrated and organized study of human problems such as long term dependency and juvenile delinquency. A good deal of work is, of course, already being done in such areas and it is our hope that federal assistance will provide the necessary added impetus to these efforts.
The welfare research grant will be made available on a non-matching basis, while the general welfare and professional training grant will be on a matching basis with the provinces except for two of its aspects, scholarships and fellowships, including travel costs, and teaching and field instruction grants. Neither grant will be allocated among the provinces but both will be held in a central pool similar to the method followed for public health research under the national health grants program.
Projects relating to the field of corrections of concern to the Department of Justice will also be covered by this program through cooperation between our two departments.
Mr. Speaker, the government has received many representations calling for the kind of program we are now initiating. As the Prime Minister told the annual meeting of the Canadian Welfare Council in May, 1961, we have also had a frank exchange of views with representatives of welfare organizations about what should be done. As a result, the government is particularly aware of the many serious problems being encountered in the welfare field and has come to the conclusion that a national system of welfare grants affords the best approach to their solution.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Minister of National Health and Welfare will accept in the spirit in which I say it, that we are all very happy to see this eruption to life on the part of the minister. The program he has announced, of course, must be examined in the light of the recommendations made to the government not in 1960, as the minister implied, but late in 1958, when the Canadian Welfare Council recommended the establishment of a program embodying some of the features which the minister announced today.
The grants to which the minister referred are positive matters to pursue, but as the minister so well knows they do not represent a new effort on the part of the government of
TMr. Monteith (Perth).]
Canada. It would be regrettable, however, if the minister were to use the appointment of the new council, the personnel of which has not yet been named, as a device to delay extending family allowance payments to school children up to age 18, as we in the Liberal party have proposed. That need not wait. Likewise we would hope that the establishment of this program would not in any way serve as a device to stand in the way of establishing for Canadians a national minimum pension of $75 a month on a contributory basis, as proposed by the Liberal party.


Oh, oh.


The hon. member for Kootenay West.


This is the party that said $46 a month was enough.


Remember the six bucks?


Are we hearing from two buck Fleming?


Order. I am not sure whether or not the house has reconciled itself to hearing the hon. member for Kootenay West.


No.


Mr. Speaker, members of this group always welcome any improvement in our social welfare program, however microscopic. We hope these decisions have not been timed to correspond with the urgent necessities of coming events.


Elections are the only things that move this government, in any event.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, for the first time in a decade all grain delivery points in western Canada have been placed on open quota. This marks the end of the longest period of elevator congestion in the history of Canada's grain trade. For ten years in succession restrictions on deliveries have had to be applied, so that grain producers who started farming since 1952 have never known a time of unrestricted deliveries.
The 1961 grain crop was a short one but of high quality and relatively few grades. This took the pressure off storage requirements. Coupled with this was the increased world demand for Canadian wheat that emptied elevator bins at an almost unprecedented rate.

Mr. Speaker, the end came today, when all delivery points were put on open quota by the wheat board.


Mr. Speaker,
I am sure the country will welcome the fact that we are about to have a general election, as that is the only way by which we can get this government to do the things which have been urged for some time. What the Minister of Agriculture has announced was urged in this house two years ago-


Oh, oh.


-not only by members of the Liberal party-


Oh, oh.


Order. Perhaps the hon. member would allow me to attempt to obtain the hearing which his remarks deserve.


I am sure you would agree, Mr. Speaker, that they deserve serious attention. As I said, it is a good thing we are having an election as this is the only way in which we have been able to get this government to do anything positive for those sections of the people who have been asking for attention. Notwithstanding what hon. gentlemen may say now by way of intervention, what the minister has announced today was urged by members of the Liberal party during the past two years-


Oh, oh.


-on behalf of
certain sections of agriculture. We are glad that at long last coming events have joined with what we have urged in order to bring the government to some decision.
Mr. 3runsden: Mr. Speaker,-


Order. Is the hon. member rising on a point of order?


I have a supplementary question.


The hon. member is introducing his supplement too soon. I recognize the hon. member for Timiskaming.


The
New Democratic party also welcomes the announcement of the minister. In fairness to the farmers themselves I think it should be pointed out that the removal of quotas is desired as a long term program. However, it should be remembered that part of the reason this has been accomplished has been the sales ability of the wheat board, and part the drought condition last year. However, we welcome this announcement also and hope that the farmers who have some grain on hand are able to dispose of it now.
26207-1-184i
Inquiries of the Ministry


Sour grapes.

On the orders of the day:


wish to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture arising out of his very welcome announcement of open grain quotas across the prairies, and with particular reference to the remarks on his statement made by the deputy farm leader of the opposition. Is it not true that there was an election in 1957, at which time the grain elevators across Canada were plugged with wheat?


Order. I think the facts which the hon. member is seeking to elicit are known to all hon. members in the house.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Prime Minister a question arising out of reports to the effect that certain members of the Geneva disarmament conference have made representations to the governments of the United States and the Soviet union to the effect that there should be no resumption of tests while that conference is sitting. May I ask whether the Canadian government has associated itself with those representations?


Mr. Speaker, our
representatives have had discussions both in Washington and in London about the whole situation at the Geneva conference, including the question of a possible nuclear test ban. These discussions have taken place within the last few days and are quite apart from any representations made by the eight unaligned countries.


May I ask a supplementary question. Is it a fact that Canada is not included in those representations from the eight unaligned countries?


I have not seen the report with regard to the representations by the eight. I am doubtful whether that report is accurate. Canada made her own representations.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of National Defence. My question
2888	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry is based on a telegram addressed to me which I received this morning. "Mundy-"


Order. I question whether the hon. member is entitled to read a telegram addressed to himself as the basis of a question. It is rather unprecedented. Perhaps he would indicate what his question is.


I want to ask a question based on a telegram I received this morning from Creston in which certain members of a militia unit who were accused of political activity deny such activity, as does the chaplain. The telegram also urges the Minister of National Defence-


Question.


-to make his statements outside the house. Will he kindly oblige?


Mr. Speaker, the statement I made yesterday was in effect a report for which the hon. member had asked with regard to the circumstances of the allegations he had made, and which were proved to be incorrect as far as the unit at Creston is concerned. I have no objection, of course, to giving this report outside the house or anywhere else.


A supplementary question. The minister claimed that the chaplain and his associates carried on political activities during hours when the men were on duty. Will he make that statement outside the house?


I made a statement in the house yesterday which the hon. member can read. I stand by that statement.


Make it outside the house.


I have confidence in the information I was given.


Make it outside the house. [Later:]


Mr. Speaker, I wish to address another question to the Minister of National Defence. In view of the minister's statement yesterday that service regulations forbidding active participation in the affairs of any political organization apply to members of the reserve forces only in regard to political activities on service establishments or when engaged in strictly military duties, has the minister instructed Lieutenant Colonel Reynolds, commanding officer of the 8th field regiment, R.C.E. to rescind his order to Sergeant McSeveney and Corporal Nichol to resign from the Creston New Democratic party club?


Mr. Speaker, as I indicated yesterday the situation was as reported. I have no information that, as alleged by the 

hon. member on April 9, the chaplain of the regiment and the two N.C.O.'s were asked to resign their membership in the New Democratic party. The allegation made by the hon. gentleman is completely incorrect. The chaplain was asked only to refrain from engaging in political activities in the armouries and among personnel when in uniform. The two N.C.O.'s were asked to stop their political activities while they were on call out serving full time with the Canadian army.


A supplementary question. As the minister is incompletely and inaccurately informed would he further investigate this matter?


Mr. Speaker, I think the situation is that the hon. member has been unmasked in attempting to make political capital out of an incident which occurred and he does not have sufficient good judgment now to keep quiet.


Order. I think both hon. members would do well not to lecture each other.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker.


If the hon. member has a question of privilege I shall hear him.


The minister has no right to say that I am making political capital out of this incident. I wish to see justice done to Canadian citizens and their rights preserved. No one in the militia should be given an order like that by a colonel of another political persuasion.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Public Works a question.
Is the minister aware that the vast majority of posters, inscriptions, etc. in the east block are printed in one language only?


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to inform the hon. member for Richmond-Wolfe that on March 22 last, the Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister, the hon. member for St. Hyacinthe-Bagot (Mr. Ricard) addressed a letter to me pointing out that anomaly.
Following that letter, I gave necessary instructions to have all inscriptions replaced by bilingual ones.

(Text):


I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. I should like to inquire whether provision is being made in the renovation of the west block or elsewhere for the use of a lounge by hon. members' secretaries, as we are making streetwalkers of these-


Oh, oh.


-pardon me; I did not mean it that way.


I suggest that the hon. member communicate with the Speaker.


I apologize for that expression, Mr. Speaker. I meant of course that they have to walk in the streets instead of having a place to rest during the noon hour.


While this matter is being inquired into, perhaps they could use the room of the hon. member.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday, April 10 the hon. member for Gloucester asked me if I had received a brief from Premier Stanfield of Nova Scotia and Premier Robichaud of New Brunswick with regard to further utilization of maritime coal. Such a brief has been received and the representations are under study.


A supplementary question. Would the Prime Minister advise the house on what date the brief was received, and whether it has been brought to the attention of the ministers or departments concerned?


Mr. Speaker, briefs are always brought to the attention of the ministers concerned.


I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister advise the house whether he will agree to table the brief presented to him on March 7 by Premier Stanfield and Premier Robichaud on outlets for maritime coal? My reason for asking the question is that it appears now that the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys and the officials of the dominion coal board have not been made aware of that brief.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Apparently the hon.
gentleman is not looking for information; he is giving information. As to the words in the earlier part of his alleged question, I shall give consideration to them.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. What steps does the minister intend to take, following the statement made by the shipowners to the effect that they will operate their ships without the help of the pilots who are now holding meetings?


Mr. Speaker, about that work stoppage of the St. Lawrence pilots, as I said yesterday, I met them and they have submitted new requests, much more moderate than their previous ones, which are now being discussed with the representatives of the Shipping Federation.
I intend to convene both groups again about those requests today, and I am confident that they will come to an agreement before very long, in the interest of both groups and of the public at large.
As for the question asked by my hon. friend, I have nothing to add to what I said the other day, that is that the minister and the Department of Transport are responsible for shipping operations on the St. Lawrence and, according to the requirements of the act, have to provide the necessary aids to navigation on the St. Lawrence. We intend to abide by the provisions of the act.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
Has the minister informed the shipowners that their action, in the case of the question that has been asked, would be illegal, as he indicated to the pilots that their strike was illegal?


Mr. Speaker, the Shipping Act provides that any ship going up the St. Lawrence has to pay a pilot's fee, whether there is a pilot or not operating her.
As far as our department is concerned, all it can require of a ship plying the St. Lawrence is that she pays the pilot's fee.
If the ship in question is plying up or down the St. Lawrence without a pilot, well, it is a decision for the ship to take; our department cannot take that decision.
2890	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry


Is the minister aware of section 375B of the Merchant Marine Act, which says that shipowners must have a pilot from St. Regis up?


St. Regis-
(Text):


May I direct a question to the Minister of Labour and ask him whether, in his view of the fact that the parties to the dispute between the pilots and the shipping federation have not been successful in getting together, and in view of the further fact that there is a grave danger to navigation if ships are moved without pilots, he will lend his good offices and those of his departmental officers in order to bring these parties together.


Mr. Speaker, I have listened to the great many questions that the hon. member for Laurier has directed to the Minister of Transport and myself with respect to this dispute. I am sure the hon. member is just as anxious as we are, or should be, that this dispute be settled. I am also sure he is aware of the fact that the Minister of Transport is devoting a great deal of time and energy to bringing about a settlement between these two parties. Consequently I think all this barrage of questions is not doing this dispute any good at all.


Oh, oh.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. I have no intention of being lectured on what my responsibilities are by the Minister of Labour.


Oh, oh.


Don't be so touchy.


Order.


The fact is that the Minister of Labour, who refused yesterday to reply to a question as to whether this was a legal or an illegal strike, notwithstanding the fact that his colleague had said it was an illegal strike, should be-


Order.


Order. Orders of the day.


Mr. Speaker, I was on a question of privilege, and I submit to you-


I heard the hon. member's question of privilege. It seems to me that it is a point of order. I agree that the hon. member should not be lectured on the questions that he asks; it is his perfect right to


ask questions. As the hon. member has raised the point, I consider the matter disposed of.


Mr. Speaker, I had not completed what I intended to say.


The hon. member did not complete what he intended to say because he departed into some irregular utterances himself, which prompted me to intervene.


But the minister was going on to lecture a member of the opposition on a matter concerning which he says he has absolutely nothing to do, and I am trying to say to the minister now-


Order. There will be opportunity for debate if we can get to the orders of the day. The hon. member for St. Mary.


Mr. Speaker, may I raise a question-


Sit down.


Order. I just recognized the hon. member for St. Mary. I will hear the hon. member as soon as I have heard him.


Mr. Speaker-


Sit down.


I rose on a question of privilege affecting the rights of the opposition in this house.


Order.


Order. The hon. member is entitled to rise on a question of privilege when he gets the floor, if it arises out of something that has been said by the hon.-


It does arise out of the
incident which just ended.


-member who has the floor, or if the hon. member for St. Mary defers.


Mr. Speaker, I do not have much chance to ask a question, with the four members of the Liberal party. I have a question to ask the Minister of Transport.


Mr. Speaker-


Order. I will hear the hon. member for St. Mary. I did recognize him before the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate rose, and therefore I think he has the floor.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for giving a lesson on procedure to the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate. I have a question to ask the Minister of Transport.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege affecting the rights of the opposition-


Oh, oh.


-arising out of the exchange between the Minister of Labour and my hon. friend from Laurier. My point is this, that we on this side of the house listened politely and without interruption-


Oh, oh.


-politely and without interruption to the lecture delivered by the Minister of Labour, which was totally out of order and a gratuitous reflection upon the conduct of a senior member of the opposition.


Oh, oh.


When that senior member of the opposition rose on a question of privilege he was interrupted, just as I am being interrupted now, by the catcalls of the majority in this house. I submit to Your Honour that the opposition is being put in an intolerable position-


Oh, oh.


-by this constant barrage that takes place when any hon. member on this side gets up to reply to these gratuitous observations made by ministers of the crown which are listened to in silence.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, just so the record will be clear I simply say that what the hon. gentleman has said is not in accordance with the facts, and apparently-


Order.


Who is interrupting now?


Hear, hear.


On a point of order-


Pious Paul.


-what the Prime Minister has said-


Order.


-is not in order, and I would ask him-


Order.


Sit down.


You continue to defy the Speaker.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order. If the hon. member's point of order arises out of what the Prime Minister said, perhaps he is justified in interrupting.


Mr. Speaker, that is obviously what I was doing. What the Prime Minister was about to do was clearly out of order. I am asking Your Honour, with great respect, to remind the Prime Minister that he has no right to speak on the matter or discuss it, as he is now doing. He is clearly out of order and he should be so told.


I thought the Prime Minister was commenting on the matter which was raised by the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate. I considered that the statement made by the hon. member, having put the issue, was open to comment.


May I say to the hon. member for Essex East, in words which Mr. Churchill once used, that he is generating such an amount of explosive material internally that I worry about his condition.
He mentioned a moment ago an eruption to life. The statements made, allegedly on a question of privilege, by the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate are not in accordance with the facts. This is simply placing on record by way of exculpation in advance a state of affairs which is not correct.


Mr. Speaker-


Perhaps the hon. member would permit me to say this. He may feel there is something to be corrected, but statements have been made about the attention given by one side of the house to the other. Hon. members know what the situation is, and there is no need to debate it. I consider we would make better progress by proceeding with the order of business rather than by pursuing the matter. It is quite improper, of course, for either side of the house to barrack -I think that word was used-or interrupt vociferously in a manner which makes it difficult, if not impossible at times, for the member who has the floor to speak. But I certainly should not want to single out as a matter of privilege the conduct of any individual in the circumstances which exist at this time when it seems to me there is more than the usual exuberance in the house.


I rise on a further question of privilege arising out of what the Prime Minister has said. The Prime Minister has said that I made a statement which is not in accordance with the facts. That amounts to saying I knowingly made a statement which is untrue, which is contrary to the rules of the house. I am not going to ask the Prime Minister to withdraw. The facts are well

Inquiries of the Ministry known; they have been observed by everyone here this afternoon, and they can be judged by the record.


They will be.


Hon. members interpret statements in their own way sometimes. In any event, I trust that the house is satisfied to proceed.


On the orders of the day:
On Tuesday the hon. member for Port Arthur asked me a question regarding the effect of the Ontario legislation in respect to municipal taxation of pipe lines on the revenues of the Northern Ontario Pipe Line Crown Corporation. I have been advised by the president of the corporation that it is a provision of the agreement between this corporation and Trans-Canada Pipe Lines Limited, covering the lease of the northern Ontario section, that Trans-Canada will pay all taxes, rates, duties and assessments of every kind. Accordingly the legislation referred to by the hon. member has no effect on the revenues of the corporation.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Transport a question.
Is the minister now in a position to acquaint the house with the results of yesterday's meeting between federal and provincial authorities in connection with the removal of tolls on the Jacques Cartier and Victoria bridges?


Mr. Speaker, as I said yesterday, the discussions that took place here in Ottawa between representatives of the three administrations concerned were at the level of the officials of those various governments. Each representative must report to his own government, and after those reports have been received the governments will get in touch. In brief, that means that as soon as we have received those reports, we shall inform the house.


Is the minister in a position to tell if, prior to March 31, 1958, representations had been made to the Department of Transport in order to abolish the tolls on the Jacques Cartier and Victoria bridges?


Mr. Speaker, the toll issue on the Jacques Cartier and Victoria bridges is another one of those questions left unsolved by our predecessors during the 22 years they were in office. This is, I believe, what my hon. friend wanted to know.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs through whose department Atomic Energy of Canada is handled. Has the nuclear power plant at Rolphton gone into operation?


The nuclear power plant at Rolphton, Ontario, became critical as the scientific term expresses it, at 2.40 a.m. yesterday, and considerable attention has been paid to this important event by the press of the country. The power station will not be fully effective, that is it will not be generating steam and transferring electricity into the Ontario grid until sometime later this year because of tests which must now be carried on to make sure that the reactor is working properly, but it is an important advance in the development of power from atomic sources.
The N.D.P. station has cost $33 million. It is a co-operative project among Atomic Energy of Canada Limited, Ontario hydro and the Canadian General Electric Company. It will have an electricity output of 20,000 kilowatts, and is the prototype for larger plants such as the 200,000 kilowatt Douglas point nuclear power station which is now under construction near the shore of lake Huron.


May I address a supplementary question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. Can the minister advise the house of the progress which is being made in the construction of the large Candu nuclear power plant in Bruce county?


Progress is going on according to plan, and that very large nuclear power plant is expected to be in operation in 1964.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. Can he confirm a statement reported to have been made the other day in Elliot Lake by the chief of research for his department, Dr. John Convey, that in two years the department's research into non-military uses of uranium could approach a state at which sufficient uranium could be needed to keep all mines at Elliot Lake in production?


I shall take the hon. member's question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Can the minister, as the result of representations made to her by Rev. Dr. Peter Kelly of the native brotherhood of British Columbia, on behalf of the Fort Simpson band in respect of the sale of timber on the Tsimpsean reserve No. 2, make an announcement to the house with regard to whatever decision has been reached?


I think the hon. member is under some misapprehension. There is no decision to be made. I announced in the house that new tenders would be called, and they will be called as soon as the specifications are drawn.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder whether the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration has seen two articles which appeared in the Alaska Highway News of April 5 which indicate that the school of the Doig river Indians in British Columbia is once more closed, and that conditions among the Indians do not appear to be satisfactory. If the hon. lady has not seen the clipping I will be pleased to send it to her. Perhaps she would be good enough to have the matter looked into.


Mr. Speaker, I am fully acquainted with the situation. The
Inquiries of the Ministry hon. member may recall that I said previously these people are not living on a reservation. They left the reservation and went to a crossroads because there was a store there. The store has now been closed and they are in the wilderness, so to speak. Efforts are being made to have them return to the reserve, where there is a school which will take care of them.


There are certain other conditions referred to in the article. I wonder whether the hon. lady would look into it and report at a later date.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries. Has any decision been reached regarding the erection of a permanent building for the fishery research station now located in London and, if so, where is it to be built? Further, if a new location is contemplated, would the ideal area in Grey North, bordering on Georgian bay, be given serious consideration?


Order. The question is one appropriate for the order paper. If the minister is able and willing to answer, I do not object.


Mr. Speaker, I can say that the lease on the present accommodation in London does not expire for a number of years yet, I think in 1966. Therefore no decision has yet been taken as to when or where permanent accommodation might be built, but careful consideration will be given to all the pertinent factors before any permanent location is selected.


Could I ask the minister a supplementary question. Could the minister say whether any steps have been taken to improve the accommodation of the Department of Fisheries with a new permanent building in St. John's.


I am not clear on the hon. member's question. Did he refer to the research board?


For the activities of the Department of Fisheries generally, including the research board, in St. John's.


This is a matter that has been under constant review. The situation has improved considerably. I think it was two years ago that accommodation
2894	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry occupied by the provincial government in the research board building eventually became available to the board, which relieved the situation somewhat. But the general problem of suitable accommodation in the St. John's area is under review.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister and ask him if he does not think his decision to sit on April 19 should be amended, in view of the fact that it is a holy day and for some of us it would be a matter of some inconvenience.


Mr. Speaker, I was unaware of that fact when I mentioned the date yesterday. I certainly would not do anything to have the house sit on a holy day. (Translation):


DOCUMENTS ISSUED IN BOTH OFFICIAL LANGUAGES On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State.
Can the minister tell us how many posters, forms, signs or other documents are now, as a result of his initiative, issued or published in the two official languages of the country-


Order.


-thus showing the progress made in the field of bilingualism during the last four or five years?


Order paper.


Could the minister-


Order paper.


-if a request is put forward to him in the appropriate way, produce a list of such documents?
(Text):


Order paper.


I am sorry, but I did not hear all the question because of interruptions. What I did hear inclined me to the view that the question is properly one which should go on the order paper. If the hon. member wishes to repeat his question, and the house will permit me to hear it-


(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I shall be glad to produce the list the hon. member is asking for.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Transport. In the light of his statement made in this house some eight months ago that the government had decided to grant an international air service route to C.P.A. from Calgary-Edmonton to London, may I ask the minister if landing rights have yet been authorized by the United Kingdom government at London?


As I have said earlier, we are in communication with the minister of civil aviation of Great Britain and a meeting is being set up between senior officials of his department and my department. According to the latest correspondence from Right Hon. Peter Thor-neycroft, this meeting will take place late in May.


May I ask a supplementary question. Why did the minister make the announcement eight months ago when the authorization to land in London had not been granted?


I imagine the hon. member for Laurier does not know that we had a meeting here between Mr. Thorneycroft and myself, and certain events have taken place in the last eight months. The hon. member should go back and read the papers, and he will get his answer.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Has the minister seen a copy of a form letter sent out by the social allowances commission in Quebec to old age pensioners who were receiving supplementary allowances? If so, can he explain why the recipients have only now been informed that they are being paid for the last few months of last year and that they were no longer eligible for the supplementary allowances as from February 1, 1962?


This situation seems to have been caused by the fact that the Quebec social allowances commission did not process until quite recently some applications they had received from pensioners for special assistance of this type. Welfare matters such as this are administered by the provinces, though my department pays one half the cost under the Unemployment Assistance Act. Under this act the provinces are free to grant whatever aid is required on the basis of individual need.
The Quebec commission seems to consider that on this basis some people at least do not require more than $65 per month. Thus the pensioners whose income was raised to that level by supplementary allowances are now receiving only federal old age security, which means that my department is paying all the extra cost instead of one half of it. Of course if the commission feels that in individual cases a higher payment is warranted, we would still be prepared to share the added cost under unemployment assistance.


I wonder if the minister could tell us what has been the reaction from British Columbia in regard to this cost sharing program.


We have had no word whatsoever from the province of British Columbia, it being the only province from which we have not heard. We have no indication whether or not they intend to participate in the welfare increases.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport arising from yesterday's announcement by the Minister of National Defence regarding the building of eight warships in Canadian yards. Can the minister indicate whether the maritime commission is working with Defence Construction Limited to see that contract tenders are shared by the maritimes, Quebec, the great lakes and the Pacific coast areas when these ships are being constructed?


The maritime commission allocates these ships. In some cases a tender is called; in others it is a question of a negotiated price. Every effort is made to distribute the shipbuilding work in as equitable a manner
Inquiries of the Ministry as possible among the yards in Canada which are capable of carrying on this type of construction.


I wonder if the minister could indicate whether there has recently been a reappraisal of the yards in order to find out which ones are capable of doing this work.
I ask this question because in recent years contracts have tended to go to only two yards.


The allegation which has just been made is completely inaccurate. At the present time there are six destroyer escorts under construction, and they are at six different yards.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. According to an article in La Tribune of April 5 the government is about to sell the post office building at East Angus. It is reported that the Tory candidate in Compton-Frontenac, Mr. Bill Clifford, is responsible for the sale of that building at a reduced price. If that report is correct can the minister assure the house that the public interest will be well protected?


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I regret that as a backbencher I have to rise and call the attention of hon. members to the rules of the house. I refer to citation 177 of Beauchesne's fourth edition, which refers to the question-


Order. The hon. member may raise a point of order with respect to some incident that has happened, but if he wishes to raise a point of order in general with respect to the entire opposition, I am afraid that would be rather novel.


Mr. Speaker, I refer to the question just asked by the hon. member for St. Denis.


We have a
Speaker, by the way.


I think there is an important lesson here which may be presented by backbenchers. I refer to citation 177 of Beauchesne's fourth edition, which states in part:
Reading telegrams, letters or extracts from newspapers as an opening to a question when the orders of the day are called is an abuse of the rules of the house.
Further along it says:
It is the member's duty to ascertain the truth of any statement before he brings it to the attention of parliament.
2896	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry Mr. Brassard (Lapointe): Was the hon.
member here in 1956?


Before the question was
answered I merely wished to direct the attention of the hon. member for St. Denis to this rule.


Of course the question has been disposed of and answered now, and it may be that the point is taken too late to be effective in this case; but there is a precedent for requiring an hon. member to take the responsibility for the truth of the facts on which he founds a question. I think perhaps unfortunately this has been overlooked a good deal in our practice. In any event, I think the point has perhaps now passed its usefulness.


Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to say a word on the point of order. I wish to inform the house that I did not read a word of the newspaper clipping. The words I used were mine, and I take responsibility for them. I merely wished to inform the house that the Tory candidate is trying to sell a public building for almost nothing, and I feel the public interest should be protected.


Order. The hon. member is taking advantage of the floor to make statements that certainly are not in order.


Government members do that repeatedly, sir.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day;
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Secretary of State if he has received designs of the various flags recommended by the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Pearson)? If so, what are they?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question- (Text):


If the hon. member for Lapointe is asking a question supplementary to that asked by the hon. member for Joliette-L'Assomption-Montcalm may I point out I did not accept the previous question. (Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask the Secretary of State if his department still has the flag design proposed by the Prime Minister-


(Text):


Order. I did not consider that the question was a proper one to be asked on orders of the day, and I believe it was not answered.


It was allowed to be asked, Mr. Speaker. That is the point. Mr. Speaker: Orders of the day.


Mr. Speaker, may I please direct a supplementary question to the Secretary of State?


May I inquire whether the Secretary of State answered the question?


No, Mr. Speaker.


I had not allowed the question. If the hon. member has a question that is his own I would be glad to hear him, but I will not entertain a supplementary question to a question that I did not consider to be in order.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. The first question was allowed; it is now on the record. While the Secretary of State did not rise to reply to it, surely the hon. member for Lapointe has the right to ask a similar or a supplementary question, since the other question was not ruled out of order.


I am sorry that I cannot agree with the hon. member. If the question was such as to raise the privileges of the house or of the hon. member or a point of order, then the hon. member should address himself to the Chair; but if no such point is involved in the question I consider that a supplementary question to a question that is not in order would also not be in order.


Then, Mr. Speaker, I do not have a supplementary question to ask of the Secretary of State; I simply have a question to ask of him.


Is it in order?


We have a
Speaker here in the house.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I just wish to ask the Secretary of State if he has received the flag design proposed, in 1945, by the Prime Minister of Canada?
(Text):


The question is of the same category as the question to which it was supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.


Two-flag Jack. (Translation):


Two flags.

(Text):


If I correctly apprehended the question it was of an entirely different order. It asked the Secretary of State whether he had received the design of a certain flag. It has been the custom over the years for the secretary of state to receive the designs which are sent to the government from time to time, and to file them in his department. I know this because I was once secretary of state. It therefore seems to me the question comes within the accepted ambit of the functions of the Secretary of State.


Perhaps the hon. member has a point. What design was it that the question related to?
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, all those who have read the minutes of proceedings of the committee entrusted with the study of the various flag designs in 1945 know it very well. I put again the question to the Secretary of State. In 1945 the hon. member who is now the Prime Minister of Canada (Mr. Diefenbaker) suggested a national flag, which was in no way of a distinctive nature. I want to ask him if he has this flag design in his flies.


Mr. Speaker, in 1945 I had not yet entered the field of federal politics, f Text) *


the third reading of Bill No. S-19, to amend the Canada Grain Act.


I should like to ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce or the Minister of Agriculture whether any consideration has been given to the matter we raised yesterday. I refer to an apparent conflict between the terms of the Canada Grain Act, which is now being changed to include mustard seed and rape-seed, and the provincial laws relating to noxious weeds. Many of the provinces consider that mustard falls into this category. I was wondering whether any consideration has been given since yesterday to this particular matter and whether some protection can be given in the matter of differentiation in the new Canada Grain Act and the provincial acts-I refer to differentiation in the matter of mustard seed-which also class this as a weed.


Mr. Speaker, I assume that if I speak I will close the debate. Is that the situation?
Supply-Northern Affairs


No. As to whether the minister has a right to speak, by leave of the house he might answer the question.


I think we wish to preserve the rules of the house. I do not wish to prevent the minister from speaking. However, it should be done only by unanimous consent. By moving third reading the minister has exhausted his right to speak. Your Honour, of course, has often made that decision. However, I should hope there would be unanimous consent to allow him to reply.


Is it agreed that the minister may answer the question without closing the debate?


Agreed.


The question asked by the hon. member for Timiskaming is one to which it is extremely difficult to give a precise answer. There has been a great deal of discussion in the western provinces as to a clear distinction between the various types of mustard seed. In some provinces they are considered noxious and in others they are a crop. As I understand the situation, mustard is grown for commercial purposes. It is clearly defined in the Canada Grain Act and in the new regulations. It is different from the mustard that is commonly known in western Canada as a noxious weed.
I do not foresee any great difficulty in putting this in the Canada Grain Act. However, I will speak to the board of grain commissioners about this matter to ascertain if they will carry on discussions with the three governments in western Canada in order to see whether anything can be done to make this matter any clearer than it is today.


Is the house ready for the question?


Question.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Martineau in the chair.


Northern administration branch-education division-*
730. Administration, operation and maintenance- further amount required, $200,000.
I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Chairman, and it is this. We were not on this item when the estimates were last discussed in this chamber. As a matter of fact we were on item 729. While we on

Supply-Northern Affairs this side of the chamber welcome the decision of the government to deal with supplementary estimates, in the light of what has taken place I think I should review briefly what has happened outside the House of Commons and here in the House of Commons concerning the manner in which the estimates have been brought before us. On Friday, March 23-


Mr. Chairman, you called item 730. The hon. member wishes now to precipitate a debate on broader questions. There can be such a debate if it is sought. However, it is not proper to have it in this committee on item 730