Order. I have a short statement dealing with a question of procedure which I think it would be in order to make at this time. As appears in Votes and Proceedings of yesterday the hon. member for St. Paul's (Mr. Wahn) presented the fourth report of the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills which read as follows:
Your committee has considered Bill S-15, an act to incorporate The Good News Broadcasting Association of Canada, and has agreed to report the preamble thereof not proven on the grounds that the committee feels that it would not be appropriate in the circumstances outlined to the committee to issue a federal charter.
Thereafter, as reported in yesterday's Hansard at pages 2292 and 2293, the hon. member for Parry Sound-Muskoka (Mr. Aiken) proposed the following motion:
That Bill No. S-15 as reported be referred back to the committee on miscellaneous private bills for reconsideration.
At that point Mr. Speaker intervened to suggest to the hon. member that the proper time to move such a motion would be during the private bills period if the bill was then before the house. Later on the hon. member for Parry Sound-Muskoka stated that under the rules, especially standing order 110, this bill would not be placed on the order paper, and this would prohibit the bill in question being placed upon the orders of the day during the private members' hour. At this juncture Mr. Speaker suggested that the matter be postponed until today to give him the opportunity of going into the matter.
May I be permitted to say that I have considered the matter and to reiterate that it was not the proper time for the hon. member for Parry Sound-Muskoka to propose his motion to refer back the bill under routine proceedings, as he did yesterday, since the bill had first to be placed upon the orders of the day by special order of the house. In this connection standing order 110 applies.
In looking at two precedents relating to similar instances-the first in 1931, at page 552 of the Journals and page 3824 of Hansard;
the second in 1958, at page 401 of the Journals and page 3329 of Hansard-it will be seen that a motion should be moved and adopted under routine proceedings in order to place such a bill upon the orders of the day for consideration, and the motion to refer the bill back to the committee is dealt with at its proper place when private bills are taken up during the hour for private members' business.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce that pursuant to the recommendations of the Norris report regarding possible prosecutions, special counsel will be appointed immediately to review all the facts and advise whether charges should be laid against any persons for conspiracy to prevent, by unlawful means, persons from working in the business of shipping; or for conspiracy to commit indictable offences, particularly offences involving violence; or for offences under the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act.
At the appropriate stage I would envisage that there would be consultation with the appropriate provincial authorities in regard to any Criminal Code infractions indicated by the advice of such counsel.


Mr. Speaker, I have a very brief announcement to make. On Monday last, on tabling the report of the industrial inquiry commission on the disruption of shipping, I indicated to the house that the report and the recommendations would be a matter of study by the Department of Labour and other departments. I wish now to advise the house that the government has set up a committee consisting of the deputy ministers of justice, transport and labour and the under secretary of state for external affairs. Other departments may be called in for consultation as the need arises.
This committee has already begun its work and has been asked to bring forward proposals for study by the government without delay. I might also add that I am getting

Sale of Wheat to Poland in touch with the United States secretary of labour regarding a further meeting in the near future.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to inform hon. members that the Canadian wheat board has made another sale of wheat under the provisions of the Export Credits Insurance Act and will today be making the following announcement from their head office in Winnipeg:
The Canadian wheat board has negotiated a contract for the sale of approximately 100,000 tons of wheat for shipment to Poland. This sale, totalling about 3.7 million bushels, is for shipment from St. Lawrence and Pacific coast ports during the period August to November, 1963.
Payment for the wheat is to be made on the basis of 10 per cent at time of shipment with the remaining balance to be paid in equal instalments plus interest at 2, 2J and 3 years respectively. These credit arrangements were authorized by the government of Canada under the provisions of the Export Credits Insurance Act.
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce in reference to the announcement he made of a sale of wheat to Poland. Would the minister be in a position to give the house some information as to the terms of the sale?


Mr. Speaker, I gave these terms in the statement that I made. I have given the copy of the statement to the Hansard reporter. And the hon. member will be able to read it in Hansard.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. At what price per bushel was that deal negotiated between Canada and Poland?


At the best possible price, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Part of my question has been asked in other supplementaries. Could the minister give us the grade of the wheat sold to Poland? I wanted the price as well, but he could not tell us what the price would be.


He has not told us the price yet.


I wanted the grade and the price.


Mr. Speaker, when I made this statement I was very careful to say I was informing the house of the announcement being
[Mr. MacEachen.l
made today by the Canadian wheat board. As I have said on many occasions, the Canadian wheat board is instructed by parliament to sell wheat to best advantage. It has never been customary in this house to reveal details, nor do I think it is proper for me as the minister to take credit for these sales.


Oh, oh.


Out of courtesy to the house 1 did think hon. members might like to know the terms of the announcement that is being made simultaneously in Winnipeg today.


I have a further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker-


Is this a debate?


-for the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the minister's statement that the shipment of this grain will take place through St. Lawrence ports, and I believe he mentioned west coast ports, would the minister consider asking the wheat board to see that a substantial portion of this grain will be directed through the port of Churchill-


Never.


-where the apparent savings by shipping the grain through this port can accrue to all western farmers?


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, it is the policy of the Canadian wheat board, and has been for many years, to ship as much grain as possible through the port of Churchill so the full capacity of that port is utilized. I understand this continues to be its policy.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Does the minister believe that the sale of 3.7 million bushels of wheat to Poland-


Order.


-will do much to alleviate the situation shown in the latest release by the dominion bureau of statistics-


Order. What is the question?


My question is that-


Order.


[DOT]-regarding storage facilities, the figures published by the dominion bureau of statistics figures indicate that elevators will be plugged when marketing of the new crop starts in about three weeks time.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the hon. gentleman agrees that all farmers in western

Canada would like to deliver as much grain as possible in this crop year. If this fills the elevators, it is the inevitable result of that policy.


Mr. Speaker, the message which the President of the United States delivered to congress at noon today is directed towards the improvement of the international balance of payments of the United States. One of the measures to which the President referred was action yesterday by the international monetary fund to facilitate continued investment by the fund in United States dollars. The arrangement is quite a technical one and I shall not try to describe it at this time. The effect is simply to allow the fund's holdings of U.S. dollars to continue to increase as they have done in the last two or three years.
Another measure announced by the President involves a system of taxes on certain international capital transactions. Certain types of capital movements have been causing weakness in the U.S. balance of payments and the new tax system is apparently designed to meet this problem. The tax applies to U.S. nationals who purchase securities, both bonds and stocks, of the following countries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Republic of South Africa, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
The tax rate proposed ranges from per cent of the value of securities with a maturity of three to three and a half years and rises to 15 per cent in the cases of securities with a maturity of 28J years or more. The same 15 per cent applies to purchases of shares. Perhaps I might just read into the record the three paragraphs relating to this particular tax:
The interest equalization tax would be a special temporary excise tax, to remain in effect through 1965, imposed on the acquisition of stock, securities or other obligations of foreign issuers or depository receipts or other evidence of interest in, or rights to acquire, such interests. The tax would be payable by all United States citizens, residents and corporations, including organizations exempt from federal income taxes. The tax would apply to portfolio purchases of stock or debt securities issued by foreign corporations, governments, or other persons, whether such securities represented new or already outstanding issues and whether the acquisition was effected in the United States or abroad. It would not apply, however, to purchases of interest presently held by Americans.
18, 1963
U.S. Tax on International Capital
The tax would not be applicable to direct investments by United States persons in overseas subsidiaries or affiliates, nor would it apply to acquisition of any indebtedness payable upon demand or maturing in less than three years. Moreover, loans made by commercial banks in the ordinary course of their banking business would be exempted. The tax would not be applied to purchases of securities issued by international organizations of which the United States is a member, governments of countries considered to be less developed, and corporations whose principal activities are centred in less developed countries. An underwriter or dealer would be exempted from the tax on acquisitions of stock or obligations resold to foreigners as part of the underwriting of a new issue.
The tax would be applied to acquisitions occurring after the date of the President's message. It would not apply to purchase commitments made on the open market on or before that date or to other purchases which the buyer on that date was unconditionally obligated to make. Exemption from the tax would also be provided for purchases made within 60 days after the date of the President's message if the security purchased were covered by a registration statement filed with the securities and exchange commission within 90 days prior to the date of the President's message.
Now, Mr. Speaker, quite clearly the measures proposed by the President of the United States will have wide repercussions in each of the 22 countries I have mentioned. These repercussions, if the President's proposals are approved by congress, may well have an important effect upon Canada's balance of payments and upon the Canadian economy as a whole. It would be unwise for me to say more than this, however, until there has been time to give careful study and consideration to all the implications of the President's proposals.


Mr. Speaker, the statement just made to the house by the Minister of Finance, of which some of us at any rate had some prior knowledge, is one of the most important statements which could have been made to the parliament of Canada at any time in the immediate past, present or future. The implications are such that there should certainly be no casual comments at this time. As the minister has pointed out, there are highly technical questions involved on which one would not wish to pass hasty judgment or make hasty observations. Certainly this message, if it were to be implemented by congress, could have most serious implications as far as the situation in Canada is concerned. Obviously this is a matter for congress, and it would be both bad taste and poor judgment for us to make comments on a matter which has only today been referred to that body.
This bears out what has been suggested in the past, that this problem of the balance of payments is one which the United States government has had well in mind, and it was

U.S. Tax on International Capital questionable whether the budgetary proposition made by the minister should have been put forward at this time in view of the possibility of some such action as this being taken, as some of us had suggested it might be.


I think this proposition made by President Kennedy is close to another proposition which was made in this house about a month ago when the Minister of Finance presented his budget. At that time he imposed a tax of 30 per cent on the sale of Canadian stocks or shares to foreign purchasers. The hon. gentleman withdrew that tax, but today the administration of the United States has proposed exactly the same tax except that instead of the rate being 30 per cent it is to be 15 per cent.
(Translation):
At that time, Mr. Speaker, we had in Canada a Mr. Kierans who went to see the Minister of Finance (Mr. Gordon) to ask him to withdraw the tax on the sale of Canadian securities to non-residents. Today we hope that the same Mr. Kierans will go and see President Kennedy to ask him to withdraw that tax too.
Mr. Speaker, I notice however that even if the tax applies exactly on the same grounds as the one the Minister of Finance had introduced on June 13 last only to withdraw it a few days later, this time, instead of the Canadian government getting the profit, it will be the American government which will collect this tax on the sale of securities, and, once again, Canadians will be victimized.
I am sure that when the Minister of Finance spoke to us about administrative difficulties, there were none; but the American government intended to impose that tax today. The under-secretary of state exerted some pressure on the Minister of Finance for the withdrawal of the tax, so that the American government might impose it now on exactly the same items.
At that time the Minister of Finance spoke of technicalities and of technical difficulties. Today, he again mentions technicalities. There are no such technicalities. It is the Canadian government which, once again, complies with demands of American finance.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance said, and rightly so, that this might affect the balance of payments, but I think that, as we Canadians will certainly benefit less from the influx of American capital in this country, and shall have less American investments here, I think this would be the time

for the Minister of Finance to find some sources of capital, to create capital in our own country, so that investments do not decrease and that we continue to develop this country with our own capital, because we shall no longer be able to count on American capital investments.
The Minister of Finance should see things more clearly now that he has been taken in by the American government, and he should learn from that lesson that he cannot count on foreign countries helping Canada-on the contrary we are their victim-and he should see to it that we, in Canada, use our own capital resources to develop this country.
Americans also have their own sources of capital, and they use them, not only for the expansion of their country, but for developing other parts of the world. Canada should do the same thing. This country should get from the Bank of Canada the capital it needs for its development, and then it will have no more cause to complain about decisions made by foreign countries.
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, as the spokesman for the Conservative party has said, this is a most serious statement that the Minister of Finance has had to make to us. However, I think it would be extremely naive to imagine that Mr. Kennedy has taken this action because of the actions of the Canadian government. I think that is perhaps exaggerating our importance in the world.
It is, however, a situation that the government should have been able to foresee in the light of the continuing stream of reports for many weeks past of the grave concern of the United States authorities over the continuing drain on their gold reserves and the appeals that were made by President Kennedy to United States investors to withhold further transfers of capital to Europe in particular to West Germany, for one.
I foresee that the government is going to face some very serious problems with regard to our exchange rate. If they attempt in the face of this move on the part of the United States authorities to maintain the fixed exchange rate and to pursue the minister's professed goal of a balanced budget, we are going to find that the Canadian people will have to pay a very bitter price for it.
I suggest that the government should now reconsider its whole attitude toward an expansionist policy in this country at this time. It may very well be that the crisis that has

been precipitated by the United States administration will cause the industrialized countries in the world to take seriously the proposals that have been made for the developing of a much greater measure of international liquidity than at present obtains. If so, then there will be some gain made from this situation.

On the orders of the day:
High! Hon. J. G. Diefenbaker (Leader of the Opposition): I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether any information was given to him by the President prior to the announcement today of this new system of excise tax. Was there any consultation, or has the love feast of Hyannis Port now been dissipated in the light of the experience of the United States following the withdrawal of the 30 per cent security tax?
High! Hon. L. B. Pearson (Prime Minister):
I can understand the right hon. gentleman's interest in love feasts of the kind he has mentioned, because he was not exposed to any of them during his term of office. Naturally it has rankled ever since that we have initiated them on this side. Subject to correction, I may say that I believe the Minister of Finance has been in touch with United States government officials on this matter. I understand that President Kennedy's administration sent an official up from the treasury office before this announcement was made in Washington.


When was that?


How long ago?


It was this morning.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, the decision may have been taken yesterday, but that is rather expeditious action. I do not believe, although I will find this out, that a messenger from the President was sent to any of the other 22 capitals.


Is it not a fact that Canada is the one nation that will be directly affected to a greater extent than any other?


No, Mr. Speaker, that is not a fact. The right hon. gentleman should know there are 22 governments that will be affected by this matter.


May I ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the dissertation on taxation to which the right hon. Prime Minister has just exposed us, may I ask the Minister of Finance if there is any other government of the 22 nations which has
18. 1963	2331
U.S. Tax on International Capital considered or was considering a withholding tax to the extent that we were when the President of the United States made this statement this morning? In view of his announcement, I am wondering if the Minister of Finance is not now prepared to give consideration to the withdrawal of his suggestion in respect of increasing the withholding tax because the same result would have been achieved by the President?


It would seem to me, Mr. Speaker, that we are back on the budget debate.


We will be tomorrow.


Perhaps I could add to that answer by saying that the withholding tax to which my hon. friend referred was imposed by his government.


Oh, oh.


I should like to ask the Prime Minister to what extent the government of which I was a member imposed a withholding tax which had to be withdrawn within 48 hours after it was introduced, and to what extent his government is imposing a withholding tax now to which parliament has not given approval?


It would take me too long to go through all the deficiencies of the previous government.


Order. I should like now to go to the cooler end of the house. The hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Finance. The tax on foreign securities proposed to congress by the President of the United States is going to have very serious effects upon provincial and municipal financing in Canada. What steps does the Canadian government intend to take to make up this gap, which will undoubtedly face the provinces and municipalities within the next few months?


In the first place, Mr. Speaker, the legislation to which my hon. friend refers has not yet been passed by the congress of the United States. Second, as I stated in my earlier remarks, I think it would be unwise for this government to say any more about these particular measures until we have had time to study them most carefully.


May I
ask the Minister of Finance whether he has any information as to why Canada is paying 15 per cent and, as I understand it, several of the 22 countries are paying all the way from 3 per cent to 15 per cent? Why is Canada listed as 15 per cent?

Business of the House


Mr. Speaker, the same rate of tax applies to all 22 countries. The purpose of the tax is that in the higher ranges of the longer term issues of 28J years or more, the rate of interest would be 1 per cent higher. [Later:]


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance which he may want to take as notice. If the United States congress passes the measure to which the minister referred, would the tax apply to the purchase by the United States of the downstream benefits of the Columbia?


I have no idea, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Finance. Can the minister tell the house if the budget is responsible for the decrease in our foreign currency reserves?


Order.


Mr. Speaker, in accordance with the ruling you made at the opening of the house I now propose to move a motion along the lines that were suggested, namely that the bill in question, S-15, be placed back on the order paper for discussion. I should like to say a few words in connection with my reasons for asking the house to make this order.
Bill No. S-15 was considered in the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills on two separate days. On the second day a witness was called and evidence was heard. Following this the committee considered and passed the preamble and all clauses of the bill. The committee amended the last clause and added two further clauses.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. Is the hon. member speaking to the motion that he has purported to make? If he is, it seems to me we should find out first whether he has unanimous consent to make the motion.


Mr. Speaker, in connection with the point raised by the hon. member, this motion does not require unanimous consent. This is a motion on a private bill taken under routine proceedings. The precedents have been carefully examined and the Speaker has today

made a ruling in that connection. It is on the basis of that ruling that I intend to follow the procedure suggested by the Speaker rather than the procedure which I attempted to use yesterday and which was out of order. I merely want to explain the reasons. As I was saying-


Order. May I suggest to the hon. member that he move his motion, which we have discussed. I can anticipate what it will be, and I hope it will be in order.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I move, seconded by the hon. member for Portage-Neepawa (Mr. Enns):
That Bill S-15 entitled: "An act to incorporate The Good News Broadcasting Association of Canada", the preamble of which has been reported as not proven, be placed on the order paper for consideration later this day.


Mr. Speaker-


Is this motion debatable, Mr. Speaker?


Yes.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to raise a point of order at this stage.


I should point out to hon. members that the scope is very limited. If any hon. members have comments to make they should make them now, but I propose to put the motion after a few comments.


I wish to raise a point of order on the regularity of the motion proposed by the hon. gentleman. This is an extraordinary procedure, and I should like to have some indication that it is in order because in my view, this motion is not in order, and cannot be put by a private member. Under our rules a private member is not in a position to make a motion of this kind at this time.


I understand that your ruling is that this motion is accepted, and I should like to speak to the motion, if I may.


I suggest to the hon. member that it is not necessary to speak to the motion, but I will not prevent him from doing so. Perhaps the Minister of Labour was not here when I gave my ruling. It was to the effect that, after researching the authorities, I find the procedure followed by the hon. member for Muskoka-Parry Sound (Mr. Aiken) is correct. He is, in my view, entitled to move this motion. Evidence to that effect will be found in 1931 and also in 1958 where procedures identical to the one we are following at the moment were employed. At that time I believe they were employed by the other side.
Unless the hon. member has some short, pointed remarks to make, I propose to put the motion.


I just want to say that I intend to vote against this motion because I do not believe the miscellaneous private bills committee arrived at this decision lightly or haphazardly. It is my opinion that if this bill were referred back to the committee the same recommendation would be brought before this house.


Shame.


I see no point in referring this bill back to the committee. I may state for the record that the reason the decision-


Order. I am sorry to interrupt the hon. member, but we are not discussing the merits of the motion. We are simply asking the house to give authority to the hon. member to raise this matter between five o'clock and six o'clock if the bill is before the house at that time. The question of whether the bill should be referred back is not at issue at the present time.


I wonder if I might say a word. Your Honour has ruled that the motion is in order. As I understand it, the only effect of the motion would be to put the bill back on the order paper again so that it could be considered during private members' hour. I wonder if the house would not consider, with a view to saving time and avoid dividing the house, having the motion adopted now and then dealing with the matter when private members' hour arrives.


I wish to thank the Secretary of State, but that is the purpose of the proceedings at the moment. Is the house ready for the question?


I have not completed my preliminary remarks.


May I suggest to the hon. member that he withhold those remarks until private members' hour.


If no one else is going to speak I am quite happy to do that.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


Yea.


Nay.


Carried on division.


Motion agreed to, on division.
for leave to introduce Bill No. C-89, to amend
Inquiries of the Ministry the Corporations and Labour Unions Returns Act (pension funds).


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, the purpose of the bill, very briefly, is to provide that when returns are made under the Corporations and Labour Unions Returns Act, those returns in respect of the operation of pension funds, and the financial details of pension funds, will be in the public domain and it will be permissible for people to have access to that information.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I am happy to find that the riding of Megantic is so important these days that two members have mentioned it.
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. I directed a question to the hon. lady on July 4 as recorded on page 1825 of Hansard; she answered at that time that she would consider the question. Today I should like to put the same question again to her. Did the minister do something to help financially the miners of Solbec Copper Mine in Quebec, who have been on strike since March 1, 1963?
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, may I say to the hon. gentleman that following his question, which I took as notice, I had the answer ready for about four days thereafter, but since he had been absent from the chamber I stopped bringing it with me.


Could the minister forward it to me at my office, or give me the answer tomorrow in the house?


I shall be glad to.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the minister's responsibilities in connection with the proposed Columbia river treaty and his own practice of keeping in touch with local opinion on any question, will he listen to the C.B.C.'s national radio

Inquiries of the Ministry network series "Soundings" this evening between 8.30 and 9 p.m. for the interesting and enlightening program entitled, "Columbia river project-a local look at a national issue," and in so doing hear the views of the residents of the Arrow lakes, Revelstoke, Ross-land, Trail and other communities in the Kootenays?


Mr. Speaker, I should remind my hon. friend that he and I have an obligation at that hour and that is, as diligent members of parliament, to be in our places in the house. However, if the hon. gentleman will arrange that I will have a pair, and if there is no matter immediately concerning me before the house, I shall be glad to listen to the program entitled "Soundings". And may I say to the hon. gentleman that I am always interested in his soundings in the house.


I wish to inform the minister that I am willing to be his pair.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I do not rise for the purpose of asking a question but with the leave of the house, especially today when we are discussing honeymoons between nations, it is a good day to recall that one of our members, the hon. member for Digby-Annapolis-Kings (Mr. Nowlan), is celebrating his fortieth wedding anniversary, and I feel the house would want to extend congratulations to him. The very fact that he looks so young indicates what a fine wife he has, and to both we extend our best wishes.
High! Hon. L. B. Pearson (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, if there is any occasion which would justify a departure from the normal rules of the house it is the occasion to which the right hon. Leader of the Opposition has made reference, the fortieth wedding anniversary of my hon. friend, the hon. friend of all of us, the financial critic of the opposition. May we on this side wish him well, and we hope he and all of us will be around when he celebrates his golden wedding anniversary, still sitting over there.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agricul-


ture. Could the minister inform the house whether he has received an official request from the province of Ontario to participate in a survey to determine individual grower losses in the $3 million frost damage suffered by Niagara peninsula fruit growers?


Mr. Speaker, there has been no official request from the province of Ontario to participate in a survey, but there is correspondence between the minister of agriculture for Ontario and myself as to what steps might desirably be taken jointly by the two governments to assist growers who suffered serious losses from frost. At the moment, action to consider or implement a proposal cannot be taken pending further advice from the minister of agriculture for Ontario.


As a supplementary question, has the minister received a request from the Ontario grape growers' marketing board for low interest loans for growers affected by frost damage, and from the Canadian Federation of Agriculture for an emergency disaster farm loan act?


There have been proposals from the grape growers' marketing board and also from the Canadian Federation of Agriculture, which are being considered.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. I believe the Fort St. John farmers union has appealed to the minister in the light of crop conditions in the area. I wonder if the hon. gentleman has anything to report to the house in connection with this matter?


If the hon. gentleman is referring to what I think he is, the government of British Columbia will, in the first instance, have to initiate any measures which may be taken for those farmers. I am already in touch with the minister of agriculture in the government of British Columbia. We have this in mind, and discussions are going on.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question which I wish to direct to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration in view of the statement made in the house yesterday by the hon. member for

Bow River (Mr. Woolliams) on a question of privilege, as recorded at page 2291 of Hansard, wherein he said:
I suggest in this question of privilege that if that order in council were now rescinded Banks would go back from whence he came.
Could Mr. Banks, the president of the S.I.U., be deported simply by rescinding that order in council which gave him landed immigrant status in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, since listening to the question of the hon. member yesterday I have had an opportunity to look into this matter, and I have reached the conclusion that the order in council may not be rescinded because its purpose, under section 5 of the act, was to provide for the admission of a person who had been rehabilitated. As the person concerned has now attained what we call Canadian domicile by virtue of a five year stay in Canada after being admitted, he may not be subject to a deportation order.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is not that a legal opinion?


I am sorry, but the hon. member for Greenwood had the floor.


In connection with this matter I would like to ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration whether he has given consideration to the application of section I9(l)(a) of the act, under which deportation can be carried out without the necessity of any order in council if, upon proper inquiry, it is found that an individual has subverted democratic institutions in Canada; and I take it there is plenty of evidence of that in the Norris report.


I think the hon. member for Bow River was quite right in saying I probably would have been out of order in giving what might be a legal opinion to the house, but it was in answer to a question yesterday. It is true that under section 19(l)(a) of the act, should a person, even after having acquired Canadian domicile, advocate the overthrow of government by force or render himself guilty of such activity, he might be deported. However, so far as I am concerned for the time being, I have not read the report that way.
The hon. member may be sure that every consideration will be given to this aspect of the question as to the facts, but it really must be only in the case where subversive activities, within the meaning of advocating
Inquiries of the Ministry the overthrow of government by force, have been entered into. However, we will look into that question.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does not the minister believe that trade unions are democratic institutions, and is he not aware-


Oh, oh.


-that the regulation includes democratic institutions as well as governments?


Order. We are entering into a debate. I believe the hon. member for Bow River had a supplementary question.


I merely wanted to ask the minister whether his opinion was a legal one.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Does the minister intend to open negotiations with the political and religious leaders of the provinces of Quebec and Newfoundland, so that divorce bills be referred only to the Senate, or that some other kind of procedure be adopted?


Mr. Speaker, the issuing of this legislation does not rest with the government, but rather with parliament. In fact, the leader of the house has already made a statement regarding the procedure to be followed in that case.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for Gaspe directed a question to my minister in connection with the excavations and explorations which would be carried out on the Perce rock by German mountain climbers. I am informed that the Canadian wildlife service has no information in that connection, but we expect to reply directly to the hon. member.
Hansard has attributed a preliminary reply to my hon. friend from Richmond-Wolfe (Mr. Asselin); because of the noise and enthusiasm of hon members opposite, the stenographer did not correctly identify the member who made that answer.

Inquiries of the Ministry WORLD FAIR


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Could the minister confirm or deny the report which was published in a Montreal daily to the effect that, during the time the Prime Minister was absent, he received, as Acting Prime Minister, the resignation of the chairman of the world fair, Mr. Paul Bienvenu?


When the Prime Minister was absent, I neither had the opportunity of meeting Mr. Paul Bienvenu nor, as far as I am concerned, could I have received his resignation either orally or in writing.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of his remarks two or three days ago with regard to the announcement of an initial price for the coming crop year, is the minister now prepared to inform the house as to what will be the initial price in the coming crop year for wheat grown in western Canada?
Hon. Mitchell Sharp (Minister of Trade and
Commerce): As I said yesterday, Mr. Speaker, in reply to a question, this is under consideration and I hope that in the next few days there will be an announcement.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. I wonder whether in his recent invasion of Saskatchewan he assured Liberal leader Ross Thatcher that when the crop year arrives the price of wheat will be up to $2-


Order.


-or are these statements uttered by Mr. Thatcher incorrect?


Order.


On the orders of the day:
The hon. member for Van-couver-Burrard.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare which comes to mind-


Order. I did not see the hon. member. Would he mind waiting his turn; there are quite a few hon. members ahead of him.


Mr. Speaker, I believe you recognized the hon. member for Vancouver-Burrard, who is now speaking. I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare which comes to my mind because I am being continually dazzled by the brilliance of the lady minister.


Oh, oh.


Another honeymoon.


I would like to know whether the minister has any advice for parents in connection with protecting their children when watching the eclipse of the sun next Saturday.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, it is a happy circumstance indeed that my hon. friend should hit upon asking this question today. The Department of National Health and Welfare has already issued two warnings to the public which the press outlets of the country have been good enough to carry; however, they do not appear to have been carried very prominently.
It is a matter of very grave concern to the public health authorities of this country that everybody should realize that on Saturday next there is to be an eclipse of the sun, which normally might be watched by adults and children. The strongest warning is given that great care must be taken in looking at this eclipse, for damage can be done to the eye which is painless when it occurs, of which the viewer has no warning, and which could be permanent. It is therefore most strongly urged upon everyone who might watch the eclipse that no reliance be placed upon household facilities such as smoked glass, sun glasses or exposed film. Indeed, it would be more appropriate for anybody interested in watching the eclipse to watch it when it is later presented on television.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct

a question to the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister tell the house how many premiers so far have accepted his invitation to attend the federal-provincial conference scheduled for July 26 and 27, to discuss the proposed municipal loan fund and contributory pension plan?
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, I have had four written replies from the provinces accepting this date. I have had one oral communication that the date is satisfactory, and one reply saying that the date is not convenient for the premier of that province, but I hope he will be represented.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a supplementary question. Has the suggestion of the Prime Minister to the premiers of the provinces, met, in some instances, with a refusal?
(Text):


I have received replies from the governments of Quebec and Nova Scotia accepting the date, and from two other provincial governments-New Brunswick, and I am not sure of the other. The premier of British Columbia has indicated that the date is not convenient to him personally. (Translation):


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a supplementary question? If a majority of the provincial premiers are not interested in attending the conference, will it nevertheless take place in Ottawa at the prescribed date? (Text):


The premise on which the hon. gentleman's question is based, as is sometimes the case, is quite unfounded.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday I asked the Prime Minister if the governments of the Yukon and Northwest Territories had been asked to participate, and he informed me no, that it was neither proper nor constitutional. I wonder whether the Prime Minister would be good enough to invite these two governments to at least sit in as observers at this very important conference.


I think it is quite appropriate that the governments in question should be informed of what goes on. It is not customary, however, to invite them to conferences of this kind. They were not invited to conferences of this sort by the previous regime either. The suggestion that they should be there as observers is an interesting one, and I will look into it.


Mr. Speaker, referring to the answer of the Prime Minister with regard
Inquiries of the Ministry to the premier of British Columbia, did he suggest an alternative date or did he simply say that he was not attending?


He indicated that it would have been preferable for him to have had a date after the first week of August, but I have written him expressing the hope that he will send a representative on the date in question as the majority of the provinces apparently find that date acceptable.


Perhaps I could add to the information I have already given about acceptances to attend the federal-provincial conference next week. The premier of Manitoba has written that the date is convenient to him, and we have had acceptances orally from the premiers of Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, before we go on to the orders of the day, I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State, in his capacity as leader of the house. Could he tell us whether the government intends to put on the order paper, before the anticipated adjournment, a measure allowing the provinces that wish to do so to withdraw from joint programs without loss of money, as was suggested yesterday by the President of the Privy Council?
(Text):


The hon. gentleman has, I am sure, enough knowledge of the constitution and of our procedures to know for himself, without asking this question, that this is the kind of matter which would first be discussed at a federal-provincial conference, and there will be one in the autumn.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the President of the Privy Council concerning a reply he gave yesterday to the effect that the provinces could withdraw from joint programs. He also stated that no province had officially made such a request to the federal government.
Is he aware of requests having been made not necessarily to the President of the Privy Council himself but to the federal cabinet, by the authorities of the province of Quebec, in order to withdraw from these joint programs, under the conditions he described yesterday?
2338	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry


Not to my knowledge, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I should now like to direct to the Prime Minister the question I put to the President of the Privy Council. Has he received any requests from the authorities of the province of Quebec in order to obtain a larger share of direct taxes in return for the federal government's withdrawal from joint programs? (Text):


No, I do not know of any direct request of that kind, but I should be glad to look into it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I think I speak for the hon. member for Vancouver-Burrard as well as myself when I inform you that we expect to have that riding back in our fold next time. I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. Does the Department of National Defence intend to take action under the Official Secrets Act against the two Vancouver Province reporters who entered the Boundary Bay wireless station without giving their passes to the security guard and who took pictures of these defence installations?


Mr. Speaker, we are looking into the facts of this case to see whether they are as alleged. If this report proves to have foundation we will then consider at once what action should be taken.


On a question of privilege, I should like to draw the attention of the Minister of Defence Production to a discrepancy which is revealed in yesterday's Hansard. On page 2298 we find an answer given by the hon. gentleman to a question asked on the subject of exercise Tocsin B. The question was:
Was exercise Tocsin B carried out in the fall of 1981? If so, how many Soviet bombers were assumed to have taken part in this simulated attack?
The answer given was:
As the exercise did not involve interceptor forces it was not necessary to assume any specific number of enemy bombers.
I should like to point out that in a return to an order of the house brought down on February 12, 1962, on a motion of Mr. Pit-


man there was a reply to a question asking "What was the extent of the simulated attack in terms of (e) bombers attacking?" The reply states, among other things:
For exercise purposes it was assumed that 300 to 350 individual aircraft tracks were detected in the attack on North America.
Those two answers are certainly at variance. While I think it is serious enough to withhold information, I think it is even more serious when we are given information which contradicts information previously given in the house.


I think the difference is more
apparent than real. The question asked was how many bombers? The answer given to Mr. Pitman was, none; not a given number of bombers, but individual aircraft tracks. This means tracks on radar screens, and one bomber passing over a series of radar observation points might produce as many as 20 or 30 tracks. So the number of bombers and the number of tracks are not necessarily the same. I think the information given to the hon. member was correct. No specific number of bombers either had to be assumed or was assumed.


On the question of privilege, if the hon. gentleman is correct the first answer was wrong, because the return to the order dated February 9, 1962 was specific. Question 5 asked: "What was the extent of the simulated attacks in terms of (e) bombers attacking?" The question did not have to do with tracks at all, and the answer was in reference to bombers attacking.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport, but in his absence I will address it to his congenial parliamentary secretary. A month * ago, that is to say on June 18, the Prime Minister and the transport committee of the cabinet gave a very receptive hearing to the Manitoba delegation in respect to the retention of the T.C.A. overhaul and maintenance base in Winnipeg. My question is, has the report of R. Dixon Speas and Associates been received to date and, if not, has the minister's office any indication when it may be expected?


Mr. Speaker, this is a question I should like the minister himself to answer. The minister will

be absent until Monday next; in