Mr. Speaker, I have a question of privilege involving the duties and responsibilities of the Minister of Justice (Mr. Chevrier) and what I think is a violation of the responsibilities which he has. Section 3 of the Canadian Bill of Rights reads as follows:
The Minister of Justice shall-[DOT]
So it is not discretionary; he must do this.
-in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed by the governor in council, examine every proposed regulation submitted in draft form to the Clerk of the Privy Council pursuant to the Regulations Act and every bill introduced in or presented to the House of Commons, in order to ascertain whether any of the provisions thereof are inconsistent with the purposes and provisions of this part and he shall report any such inconsistency to the House of Commons at the first convenient opportunity.
Then there are regulations pursuant to that section which merely set out more intricate machinery as to how this should be done; it involves a certificate to be signed by the deputy minister, and so on, but I do not think that is germane to this point at the moment.
On June 7 of this year, more than six months ago, I introduced in this house Bill No. C-71. The bill was introduced and given first reading, and so far-and I checked this with the office of the Clerk of the House of Commons this morning at about twenty or twenty five minutes after nine o'clock-that bill has not been returned from the Department of Justice with any indication on it that it has been examined.
During the last session, in fact on February 1, I raised a similar question of privilege and founded upon it a motion, which is to be found at page 3329 of Hansard for February 1 last, that the standing committee on privileges and elections be authorized and instructed to inquire into and study the responsibilities attendant upon the Minister of Justice by virtue of section 3 of the Canadian Bill of Rights and whether those responsibilities were properly carried out with respect to Bill C-14, an act respecting Indians. No decision
was taken on that motion. The matter was taken under advisement and the house prorogued, or parliament was dissolved, before an opportunity was accorded the Speaker to rule on it.
There are some interesting comments with respect to that question of privilege reported at page 3330 of Hansard. For example, the hon. member for Laurier (Mr. Chevrier) said:
Mr. Speaker, this appears to us to be a matter of pretty serious import-
Then there is an interjection by the present Prime Minister (Mr. Pearson), who said:
A breach of the law; that is all.
Then the hon. member for Laurier continued:
-more particularly because of the fact that the bill has been held up from October 1 until now, and my suggestion to you, sir, is that this matter be taken under advisement.
Then there is the following comment by the then hon. member for Essex East (Mr. Martin):
Particularly because of the violation of the act by the Minister of Justice.
Precisely the same situation as this arose with respect to Bill No. C-71, and this is even worse because it is a longer period of time, more than six and a half months.


What did the Secretary of State have to say?


Unfortunately the Secretary of State was particularly silent when this matter was raised on February 1. I contend that the Minister of Justice has not fulfilled his obligation under the bill of rights with respect to Bill No. C-71. It is immaterial at this stage whether or not, as was done on June 7, the Speaker expresses any thought about the bill, because the measure has been introduced into the House of Commons and given first reading. I remind hon. members of the provisions of section 3 of the bill of rights where the expression is used: "and every bill introduced in, or presented to, the House of Commons", which makes it even broader.
I should like to move a motion founded on this question of privilege, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles), namely:
That this house expresses its regret that the Minister of Justice has not fulfilled his obligation pursuant to the Canadian Bill of Rights.

Inquiries of the Ministry


I have to decide whether or not there is a question of privilege. I should like to say in this connection first of all that it appears to me that this is rather in the nature of a grievance against the conduct of a minister with regard to action which has or has not been taken. If it is desired to condemn the action of the Minister of Justice it should be done in the form of a substantive motion requiring notice. In this connection I would refer the hon. member to Beauchesne, fourth edition, citation 127, paragraph 2, and to Bourinot at page 301.
In the circumstances it seems to me that the motion is in the nature of a grievance and not a prima facie case of privilege. Therefore I regret I cannot accept the motion.


I wonder if I could ask the unanimous consent of the house to my moving it as a substantive motion.


No.


I have not looked into this matter recently, although I did receive some representations from the officers of the department, and I wonder-


Order. I am sorry to interrupt the Minister of Justice, but I have given a ruling and I suggest we now proceed with the business before the house.


On the orders of the day:
I address a direct question to the Minister of Finance with reference to what has been described by Mr. Kierans and others as the discriminatory policies directed against foreign investors. Is the minister in a position to advice or at least give some hope that these policies he brought into effect, which resulted, to use an expression in one editorial, in biting the hand that feeds Canada and the commission of a historic blunder on Canada's part, will be withdrawn?


No, Mr. Speaker, they will not be withdrawn.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In view of the substantial


budget deficits that were announced yesterday, will the minister have some better plans for us in the new session?


I am afraid I did not hear the question, Mr. Speaker.


I asked the minister, in view of the substantial budget deficits that were announced yesterday, will he have some better plans for parliament in the new session?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has he any report to make to the house respecting the negotiations which took place yesterday on the Columbia river treaty? Further, is he hopeful that this matter may be brought before parliament early in the next session?


Order paper.


Mr. Speaker, my estimates will be up this morning, and perhaps at that time I could deal with my hon. friend's very appropriate question.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Transport a question. Could he tell the house what his department is going to do about the Soulanges canal?


I suppose, Mr. Speaker, the government will continue to accept responsibility for the canal unless some other disposition is made of it.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether the Minister of Transport can tell us if he has been officially notified by the government of the province of Quebec that the province is refusing to buy the Soulanges canal for the sum of $1, as it had agreed a few years ago.


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on November 12 the Minister of Trade and Commerce indicated that his department had opened negotiations with sugar exporting countries with a view to ascertaining whether some bulk purchase arrangement could be made. I would like to ask the minister what progress is being made in these negotiations, and how soon he expects to be able to announce that a bulk purchase arrangement has been entered into by Canada.


Mr. Speaker, there have been fairly lengthy negotiations with various groups of producers. So far we have not felt that any of the arrangements that have been proposed would be in the interests of Canada. However, we are continuing these discussions, and if we can reach a satisfactory conclusion we shall do so, of course, and announce it in due course.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Secretary of State. Before this day is over or before this session ends will he see whether certain returns can be brought down? I refer in the first place to a motion for papers, No. 105, passed on October 23. The last time I asked about this I was assured it would be brought down shortly, and a couple of weeks have gone by since. May I also draw his attention to a document which I asked the Prime Minister to table, or to add to this return. The reference is on page 5701 of Hansard for December 11. This all has to do with correspondence and briefs regarding the Canada pension plan. I realize that it is an order of the house and it will have to be brought down sooner or later even if this session ends, but I would hope these documents might be brought down before the end of the session.


Mr. Speaker, this is not meant as criticism, but I regret that the hon. gentleman did not mention this to me yesterday; because with his well known solicitude for the public servants he will realize that it may be difficult today to get the necessary co-operation from departments that may be required to meet his requests expeditiously. But if I can find someone who is available I will be glad
Inquiries of the Ministry to get the papers that are already available, as probably some of them are, and have a partial return made at any rate. I have no idea what the status of the return is, but as far as it is possible on a Saturday I will be glad to look into it.


May I just say to the Secretary of State that after his promise of a couple of weeks ago that this would be done I did not think it would be necessary to remind him.


I have no doubt that after the hon. gentleman brought the matter up all the departments were duly alerted. However, he will appreciate that I do not devote much of my time personally to checking each day to see what progress has been made with these returns.


wish to address a question to the Prime Minister. Would he inform the house if he is going to table the correspondence relating to the Columbia treaty in compliance with a motion for papers approved by this house on October 30, and if not why not?


Mr. Speaker, the appropriate course will be taken. This return will be made in due course and the correspondence will be tabled.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Can he indicate to the house what action, if any, is planned to keep No. 23 wing R.C.A.F. band in Saskatoon? I would remind the Prime Minister that this band is considered to be one of the best in Canada, and its loss would be a serious blow to the city of Saskatoon.


I shall be glad to look into the question of this band. I may not be able to reply before the house ends this session, but I will keep in touch with my hon. friend about it.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Will the minister tell the house if the government has abandoned the project to construct a railway between Matane and Ste. Anne des Monts?

Inquiries of the Ministry


No decision has been taken on that matter, and when a decision is taken it will be announced.


May I ask the minister a supplementary question. Since the previous government had decided to construct such a railway, will the minister tell the house the reason why the construction has been delayed so long, especially when it means so much to this part of the country?


Yes. The reason for the delay is that the survey taken by the railway shows that the cost would be much higher than that indicated in the legislation. In addition, there were many indications of opposition in the area because the building of the railway would sever farm lands in the valley, which are rather long and narrow, in a way that would be very damaging. Then, too, the railway would be detached from any direct connection with the Canadian National Railways line which serves most of the area, and arrangements would have to be completed for running rights or some other rights over the intervening Gulf railway. There may be other matters which require consideration as well.


This is an extraordinary statement on the part of the minister. Does he intend at the next session to introduce legislation to repeal the law passed by parliament under which this railway was to be built?


I simply do not know what the intention will be so far as legislation is concerned for the next parliament. This matter is now under consideration. It is quite an important matter, and it will require a decision in the light of all the circumstances. I tried to give the hon. member who asked the question the information as to the nature of the problem.


On the orders of the day:
I understand the Prime Minister cannot give us a statement of government intentions with regard to publications, but could he at least give an indication what those certain considerations are that have arisen recently and have caused a delay in the decision?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. The additional factors are concerned with the desirability or otherwise of broadening the basis of any action that


may have to be taken to include foreign control of Canadian newspapers and possibly foreign control of television and radio.


May I ask a supplementary question; I know this is going into policy, but I think it would be very interesting and informative if we knew the answer. Does the Prime Minister at present say that such a move has to be made by means of legislation?


Well, Mr. Speaker, we are very much aware, as I am sure my hon. friend is, of the far reaching importance and the seriousness of the question, and if possible action is to be extended into this field very careful consideration will have to be given as to how best it can be done.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Postmaster General a question. Could he tell us where he sends all the letters children write Santa Claus each year at this time?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Secretary of State. Can he say whether any decision has been reached as to appointments to be made to the Atlantic development board when the terms of the original appointees expire on January 24?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. An order in council was passed on December 17 reappointing Mr. Frank H. Sobey, Mr. Melvin J. McQuaid and Mr. Fred Ayre, who were appointed on the recommendation of the previous government in January of last year. The only member of the board who was appointed by the previous government and who is no longer on the board is Mr. Lalande, who regrettably had to resign for business reasons and who was replaced some months ago by Mr. Armand Cormier of Moncton. Mr. Cormier has also been reappointed, so, with that one exception, the board will continue in exactly the same form as it was when the legislation was adopted by parliament. This, I might point out, is one of those examples of the partisanship of the present government.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether I might be permitted to supplement the answer I gave to the hon. member for Antigonish-Guysborough by saying that Mr. McQuaid is a former Tory cabinet minister in Prince Edward Island.


On the orders of the day:
That was an example of good judgment, but I am going to bring up a question that has to do with rank partisanship. It arises because of the last words of the Secretary of State; otherwise it would not have been presented.
Has the Minister of Transport received communications from Sarnia, Ontario, protesting against the removal of the local harbour master, W. Hillmer, who has received severance notice as of December 31; and is it correct that his replacement will be the campaign manager for the hon. member for Lambton West (Mr. Foy) in the last election?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the Leader of the Opposition for having given me notice of this question.


Oh, oh.


In spite of the laughter that this has provoked, I must say I really appreciate his notice of a question for a change, because I do not get many notices of questions these days. In any event, dealing with the subject matter of the question, the gentleman he mentioned, Mr. Whitney Hillmer, came to retirement age on November 1 this year. He was continued in employment until the end of the year because it was thought unwise to terminate his employment during the shipping season, and the effort was made to have him finish his annual reports.
He has been replaced, but not by the gentleman named in the telegrams, which all seem to be the same and seem to have been inspired, as indicated in this morning's Toronto Globe and Mail, by Allan Fowler, president of the local Progressive Conservative association.


Oh, oh.


I might add that Mr. Whitney
Hillmer was the campaign manager for our former colleague in the House of Commons from that area, Mr. Murphy. He is not being replaced by the gentleman mentioned in the telegram and mentioned, in the question of
Inquiries of the Ministry the right hon. Leader of the Opposition; but he has been replaced by Captain Alex McNeil.


Will the minister tell us something about Captain McNeil?


Yes, I can tell the right hon. gentleman something about Captain McNeil. He was born on August 25, 1912-


Oh, oh.


He had a high school education. He has four sons. He served from 1930 to 1939 with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. From 1939 to 1945 he served with the Royal Canadian Navy. He had a rather distinguished record in the navy. From 1945 to 1952 he was in charge of Royal Canadian Mounted Police patrol craft on the Atlantic and the great lakes area. In 1952 he retired on Royal Canadian Mounted Police pension. From 1952 to 1962 he served as assistant plant protection supervisor, fire, safety, security and first aid department, for the Canadian Oil Company's refinery at Corunna, Ontario. In June, 1962 he left that position. He holds a master's home trade certificate. He holds a mate's coastwise certificate. He holds the Royal Canadian Navy watchkeeping certificate. He holds the Royal Canadian Mounted Police long service and good conduct medal.


Oh, oh.


He attended a fire course at the Ansul fire training school, Marionette, Wisconsin; a fire course at the Ontario fire college, Gravenhurst, and safety courses of the industrial accident prevention associations in Toronto.


Mr. Speaker, there is only one qualification that is not included, and that is "superb". But I do want to thank the minister. When I telephoned him this morning and asked whether he had any information on this and had he received a number of wires and complaints, he did not have any information. I brought it to his attention, and this shows how carefully he proceeds after a request is made.


I want to repeat, Mr. Speaker, that I meant it when I thanked the right hon. Leader of the Opposition.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, we agreed last night to start our sitting at ten o'clock this morning and it was also agreed that the orders of the day would be called after 30 minutes. That 30 minutes has now expired.


I have to advise all hon. members that the 30 minute period will expire at 10.37.

Supply-Transport HEALTH AND WELFARE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the right hon. Prime Minister and ask when he expects to get the report of the royal commission on medical care.


I am sorry that I cannot answer that question, Mr. Speaker. The last time it was asked I said that I hoped it would be in soon. I can only repeat that now. But I will make inquiries right away and get in touch with my hon. friend.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Acting Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources what arrangements have been made at Uplands airport, at the civil aviation museum, that allow Percy Carriere to sell jeeps out of the museum?


Mr. Speaker, I will make inquiries and advise my hon. friend.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Lamoureux in the chair.


145. Airports and other ground services-operation and maintenance, $22,532,100.
['This concludes the estimates of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources and also the estimates for this session.\nResolutions adopted in committee of supply this day reported and concurred in.']
Mr. Chairman, I have but one comment to make on item 145, concerning airports. It has to do with restaurants. I understand those restaurants are leased to concessionaires who benefit from somewhat exclusive rental rates and take advantage of this to raise the price of the goods they sell at air terminals. For instance, cigarettes cost more there and that goes also for newspapers, chocolate, soft drinks and what have you.
I wonder if the Minister of Transport should not investigate that situation and see to it that the exclusive privileges granted to concessionaires in restaurants and other business establishments are not used to increase prices, thereby causing unwarranted inflation.


Shall the vote carry?


Mr. Chairman, a few words only on item 145 before it is agreed to. I want to refer to parking lots at airports. We note that these lots are looked after by contractors. Could the minister tell me whether the leasing of these lots brings in a great deal of revenue to the Department of Transport and whether it would be a great loss for the department if these parking lots were made available free of charge to patrons of air lines, instead of being leased to contractors who, in turn, rent space on parking lots?


Yes, Mr. Chairman, this brings in a great deal of revenue.


Item agreed to.
155. Construction or acquisition of buildings, works, land and equipment with respect to national airports (as determined by the Minister of Transport) and related facilities; contributions towards construction done by local or private authorities with respect to such airports, amounts to be paid in settlement of claims for compensation by persons whose property is injuriously affected by the operation of a zoning regulation made under authority of paragraph (j) of subsection (1) of section 4 of the Aeronautics Act and authority, notwithstanding section 30 of the Financial Administration Act, to make commitments for the current fiscal year not to exceed a total amount of $41,360,000, $38,477,000.
['Yes, Mr. Chairman, this brings in a great deal of revenue.']
Mr. Chairman, there is a brief comment I would like to make on item 155, which has to do with the construction or acquisition of buildings for airports under the Department of Transport. My brief reference is to the new airport at Winnipeg, which is indeed a tremendous improvement over the facilities we had there in former years. I regret to say, however, that there is one feature about this airport-as a result, I am told, of the practice of economy-which is unfortunate. I understand that the original plans called for tubes to be provided so that passengers would go from the second level directly out on to the aircraft, but somewhere along the line it was decided that these could not be afforded and they were not installed.
The lay-out of the airport is such that when passengers are going from the airport to the aircraft, or from the aircraft into the airport, both ways they have to go from ground level up, and then down. This is all right for some of us, but for older people, for women with children, for passengers carrying baggage, and so on, it seems rather unfortunate. I know that the first time I went home after the new airport was opened, I went along with the rest and found myself going up to the second level, and when I wanted to get my baggage I had to go down again. I thought I had missed a directional sign or something, but my inquiries revealed that this situation results from a decision taken, on the basis of

economy, not to have these special tubes to permit loading and unloading from the second level.
I can understand this bit of economy, and perhaps we should not get these tubes at Winnipeg for a while yet. But that is not the end of the story. In addition to that, escalators which were planned to operate both ways were altered so that they would go only one way. This means that passengers alighting from aircraft, although they start from ground level, have to walk up to the second floor and then go down to the ground level to get their baggage.
When departing, passengers have to do the same. I hope the department will take another look at this and realize that it is an unfortunate situation, and that if it is not possible to revert to the original plan to have loading from the second level, at least escalators should be installed so that people would not have to walk up a flight of stairs and then down again. I should like to hear from the minister whether consideration is being given to correcting this situation.


Mr. Chairman, while on the subject of international airports I should like to point out to the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre that the Edmonton building does not suffer from that problem because it is better designed. But one point I would make to the minister which affects all international terminals is that we have a singularly cold reception for people coming into the building off international flights. At European international airports there is a sign which says "Welcome" or "Bienvenue" to the particular country. Why can we not do that here in Canada? I have taken this matter up with the minister's departmental officials on previous occasions and I was told that this should be a local responsibility, that I was to see my local chamber of commerce. These buildings belong to the Department of Transport. Surely in these huge terminals in Edmonton, Winnipeg, Toronto and Montreal we should say "Welcome", even just to welcome Canadians back to their country.


In both languages.


Yes, obviously. At some
terminals we might even go further. After all, here in Ottawa for a certain convenience we use a third language, Spanish.


Mr. Chairman, in answer to the last question I might say that this problem is usually looked after by the local boards of trade. I might inform my hon. friend from Edmonton West that in one area I could mention the local board of trade goes further and meets passengers with a serving of rum.
Supply-Transport


Is the minister suggesting rye and ginger ale here?


However, I will take this point under consideration. With regard to the matter raised by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, by reason of the earlier cut-back in expenditure in 1962 the installation of the escalators to which the hon. member referred was not proceeded with, but the building is so constructed that escalators can be put in, without requiring many structural changes. I hope that in due course as the situation improves the matter can be taken care of.


May I ask whether "in due course" will be some time soon? In other words, are plans being made now to reconsider the installation of these escalators?


It depends on the house's treatment of the budget and the estimates, I suppose, but in any event the problem is one to which the department is very much alive. I have also given the matter some consideration myself and am looking forward to visiting the airport in a few days.
With regard to this criticism which has been made of the airport, it is a curious thing but after this rather costly, and I agree rather good, airport was opened it seemed that the criticism made of this matter was rather disproportionate. But in any event the matter is one of some concern, although I cannot give a commitment now as to what the estimates will be next year in this respect.


I am glad to hear the minister will be coming to Winnipeg. If he will let us know when he is coming we will welcome him with a cup of tea.


Mr. Chairman, I saw in the press not so long ago that the department intends to go ahead with rolling sidewalks at Montreal airport. I know that these rolling sidewalks were included in the original plans for the airport, but there again I am afraid they were the first victims of treasury board in the same way as were the escalators at Winnipeg.
I hope treasury board will revise this policy, because I do not think this sort of thing should be the first to be cut back in any plan for a new public building designed to handle a tremendous number of people boarding or being discharged from an aircraft and who may have parcels in their hands, children with them, and all that. I hope that in any new public building this policy of cutting back on elevators, escalators or rolling sidewalks will be revised. Montreal airport is probably the most beautiful air terminal in the world, yet people are still complaining

Supply-Transport
about the fact that distances between the planes and the public facilities are much too great.


May I ask the minister whether he will give a reply to the question I asked him last night regarding Transair.


We passed that item.


But the minister has not yet
replied. I was hoping that the minister would give a reply to this question.


Mr. Speaker, I should have replied but unfortunately the answer did not come in until after the house met this morning. The situation with Transair is that on part of the route the service in question has been suspended as of January 11. A hearing will take place before the air transport board to consider whether they should permit the air line to abandon this route, at which hearing there will be an opportunity for all interested parties to make representations. Notices of this hearing have been sent out in the usual way.
There is a real problem here, because the traffic load over one part of the route averages out at barely one passenger per trip. Obviously it is not possible to run an air line on that basis on that kind of route without some examination of the problem of how to meet the requirements of the communities involved, and meeting them adequately.
As the matter has not yet been dealt with by the air transport board it would be useless for me to speculate, and quite improper for me to do so, as to what their decision will be until persons making representations have had a full opportunity to do so at the hearing.
There was another part to the hon. member's question, if I remember correctly, concerning Trans-Canada Air Lines transfer of assets or equipment when they abandoned this route. I think I answered this question on July 15 last; there was also an order for return made as well.


But there were no details given.


In any event, the essential point as I have indicated is that Trans-Canada Air Lines equipment is bought and sold in accordance with normal commercial practice. This matter was also before the committee, and I think the report will be found on page 56 and following. Information was sought at that time. I have not had an opportunity to look up the record and see precisely what information was given, but there was an opportunity to ask about it, and there is no information I can give beyond what was given at that point.
[Mr. BalcerJ


I asked if the figures I gave last night were correct, namely that T.C.A. gave to Transair one Viscount, two DC-3's and half a million dollars worth of DC-3 parts for $1. The second question was, will T.C.A. recover any part of this if Transair, who have operated the route for less than a year, gives up the uneconomic part of the line?


The hon. member is really asking me to answer indirectly what I explained to him could not be answered directly.


The minister has in effect told us we shall have to wait until the air transport board holds its hearings, and he says that is the fair thing to do. I suggest it is not the fair thing to leave this matter for the air transport board, because the board itself has already been involved in this whole matter and so has the minister. I am not saying it is the present minister, but some minister has been involved.
It is obvious to all of us who have followed the situation which led to Transair getting this route that at some stage there was a recommendation or intervention at the ministerial level. It was not a case of the air transport board making up its mind as between a couple of carriers. Somewhere there was ministerial intervention, and it was obvious why there had to be. A crown corporation, T.C.A., was involved, and there was an arrangement of some kind-I was about to say a deal, but that might have been invidious. This question of where Transair stands in relation to these routes and to T.C.A. is more than just a matter for the air transport board. There are others involved besides the public and the cities of western Canada. They are the competitors.
What did Mr. McGregor tell us at the committee hearings? He said T.C.A. tried to demonstrate as far as it could that it was impossible to make money on this southern line. Despite all the arguments which T.C.A. gave, Transair insisted that money could be made, and they went ahead. They got in in April, and now they are out. Given a situation of this kind, it is not good enough to say that a solution will come as a result of hearings to be held by the board. There is surely a need for ministerial action and explanation with regard to this matter. If this is not forthcoming, I have to feel that the minister is letting the air transport board carry responsibility for something with regard to which he himself should be reaching a decision.


I should like to say a word or two on the decor of public airport buildings. I know that in the past such questions as these have usually been left to the architects

involved. But the costs are now beginning to run high. In Toronto airport $150,000 was paid, I believe, for artistic objects of, to say the least, a controversial nature, and I am wondering whether in future it might not be a good idea to have these things checked by a government committee, perhaps including somebody from the national gallery. I say this because $150,000 is a sizeable chunk of the taxpayers' money, especially when it comes to the purchase of objects which are highly controversial even in artistic circles. One was described by a prominent Toronto artist as resembling a lump of mud. I think a little greater care should be exercised, and it might be a good idea to select objects which made concessions, at least to some extent, to the taste of the general public. Art galleries are perhaps another thing, but in the public airports one has to use a little reason.
It has been the fashion in the last few years to have large quantities of tropical plants scattered about our airports. These plants have an unfortunate habit of not living very long, and they are expensive to replace. This increases the cost of maintenance. All this may seem trivial, but I suggest that those responsible for the interior decor of airports and other government buildings might take a second look at the use of enormous quantities of tropical plants and devise some suitable alternative which would have a greater degree of permanence. I suggest some direct control be exercised by the department.


There is one further matter I wish to raise with the minister. The Yukon legislative council communicated with the hon. gentleman or his officials requesting that a member of the Department of Transport should travel to the Yukon and discuss with the council the requirement for terminal buildings, emergency airstrips and all the facilities needed in the Yukon. I am informed that the department refused to acknowledge this request. A similar request to the Department of Labour was, I understand, no more successful; there was no reply.
It seems to me that when a request comes from such a body as the Yukon legislative council the courtesy of expert advice and assistance should be extended to them if they request it in order to obtain the efficient service which they feel is required in the way of improved airstrips and facilities throughout the region.
I showed the minister a telegram I received the other day concerning the positioning of the terminal building at Whitehorse. Apparently it is to be placed in such a position that a discontinuance of the cross strip, the east-west runway, will be required. Great concern
Supply-Transport
is being expressed over this situation. I believe this question, along with others, could be solved if the minister would ask one of his officials to go and sit with the council as the council has requested.


I want to return to this question of Transair for a moment. Since the discussion has gone thus far, I think I should point out to the minister that there are many people along this southern prairie route who are deeply distressed because of the events which have taken place since last year. On December 11 of this year I put on the order paper a notice of motion for the production of papers asking for all correspondence between Transair and Trans-Canada Air Lines that would in fact reveal to members of the House of Commons what the arrangement or deal was.
I think the minister has taken the position that this is not public information but is an arrangement which was made between two companies. But as has been pointed out by hon. members just a few minutes ago, Transair knew very well when it undertook to provide this service that it was not going to pay, particularly on the basis they set it up. The results of the service for the few months they did carry it on substantiate that, of course, in that on one part of the run the number of passengers averaged .8 per trip. We do not disagree that this kind of service needs to be discontinued, but we are a little bit concerned about the position of competitors who may have been able to set up a service with schedules and so on that would have resulted in the service paying.
Transair also claims it lost a lot of money. No one can disagree with that if the figures they have given are true, and I am not disputing them. But we are going to pursue this matter in the next session because we want to know whether Trans-Canada did in fact transfer to Transair assets with a value in excess of the amount of money Transair lost. It may be a million dollars, it may be half a million dollars; apparently it is somewhere in that neighbourhood.
Transair operated this service for 117 days, I believe, and claim they lost up to $1,000 a day. If this is so it means that Transair got by way of assets from Trans-Canada Air Lines at least five or six times as much as Transair lost on the run. In my opinion, Mr. Chairman, this is wrong. I also believe that inasmuch as Trans-Canada Air Lines belongs to the people of Canada the House of Commons has a right to investigate this matter and also to have the answers from the minister; because it seems obvious to us that unless Transair knew in advance of the deal what assets Trans-Canada was prepared to transfer to

Supply-Transport
them for $1, they would never have undertaken to provide the service at all.
In spite of what the minister has said about not being able to get hold of the information that passed between Trans-Canada Air Lines and Transair, I believe that we as members of the house have a right to know if something like $300,000 to $500,000 in publicly owned assets were turned over to this corporation, which was then allowed to suspend the service.


The hon. member for Lapointe.


There are two points raised in the discussions, it seems to me-


Order. Perhaps we could allow the Minister of Transport to reply to the points raised by previous speakers, and then I will recognize the hon. member for Lapointe.


It seems to me that there are two points involved in the remarks of the hon. member for Medicine Hat and to some extent in the earlier remarks of the hon. member for Port Arthur. I believe the point having to do with routes is fully answered by the fact that a hearing is going to be held. I would want to check my information, but I believe that already two applications have been made to serve parts of this route.
This is the very thing that should be determined by the air transport board, because it is a matter of examining the areas requiring service to see how they can best be served and what is the best method of getting some kind of service that will be effective. Obviously, as I think the hon. member realizes, a basis of service cannot be provided with an average of less than one passenger per flight, as was the case between a couple of points on that route. As to that part of the matter, I think the answer is surely satisfactory.


Before the minister leaves that point may I ask a question. Would the air transport board have any power to make Transair disgorge part of the planes and equipment it got to operate this route so they could be used to subsidize the successful applicant for the new franchise?


The question the transport board determined was whether or not they would permit them to cancel the service. As to the question put by the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam, I would think the answer would be that this was a commercial transaction between two air lines and that the board would not have any jurisdiction to inquire into it. But if the hon. member will bear with me until I deal with the other part

of the question raised by the other two members perhaps he will find his question sufficiently answered.
The transaction referred to was carried out under the former government before I had the responsibility of office. In the light of what has been said, in view of the motion for papers which was put on the order paper and possibly was withdrawn at my request- I do not know what became of it-and of the discussion that arose at that time, and in the light of repeated questions on this point by the hon. member for Port Arthur and the questions now raised by the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam, I am quite content as soon as the house finishes to have a look at the whole transaction to see if there is any ground on which I can with propriety produce information that would satisfy hon. members and show exactly the details of the whole situation. I shall make such an examination particularly with a view to seeing whether any part of this transaction falls within the realm of the government's responsibility and if the information thereon may be produced. But I do not want to recede from the position that information as to ordinary commercial transactions between air companies may not be produced, because it will be recognized that if I did that we would get into very serious situations. I will look at the whole matter in the light of the questions yesterday and today.


May I ask the minister another question before he sits down. I am not asking for details of the transaction between the two air companies, but I am asking the minister if Trans-Canada Air Lines, in giving Transair these planes and equipment, received any assurance that Transair would operate this route for any specific period of time.


Mr. Chairman, that is the very type of thing I have in mind. I want to examine the whole transaction in some detail, as is obviously required, and that is one of the many details that will have to be looked into. I must say I have not had any real opportunity to look at the matter at all in the past week since the matter was raised.


When the minister does come back to the house I would ask him to supply information so we will know the total fair value of all the planes and equipment involved and also the total loss of Transair while it operated the service, in order that we can make some comparisons and find out whether in fact they made a profit by losing money.


Mr. Chairman, I shall now turn to another matter with which the citizens of the Saguenay-Lake St. John area are very much concerned, the Bagotville airport.
Hon. members know that that airport is both a military and commercial airport. There have been accidents between T.C.A. aircraft and military aircraft using the landing strips there. The resulting danger makes the people in that area a little nervous, and they have requested for a long time a civil airport at St. Honore, near Chicoutimi, that is practically in the centre of the area.
I wonder whether the Minister of Transport contemplates setting up a civil airport at St. Honore.
Besides, the citizens of that area have been asking for some time for an air terminal in Bagotville, because there is, at present, a sort of building without any conveniences and with a waiting room totally out of date; it is necessary that conditions be improved. And, therefore, I ask the Minister of Transport (Mr. Mcllraith) whether he could give us some information regarding the building of a new airport or a new terminal in the Saguenay-Lake St. John area.
[Text}


I do not have much information on the precise details of the new airport. There are no immediate plans for it. However, in so far as the building to which the hon. member refers is concerned, I recall signing a letter on that subject within the last week. It is involved in the future plans, but I have forgotten the precise dates and the actual timing.


Will we have this new building for the airport in Bagotville without too long a delay?


I cannot tell my hon. friend anything offhand because I do not have the file. It depends on the estimates program; however I did deal with the new building within the past week.


Will the minister give us an up to date report on the status of the Malton airport? What is the stage of construction, and what is the estimated date for its official opening? There is a great deal of interest in this matter in Toronto.


I think the best information I can give the hon. member is that the airport will come into operational use at 12.01 a.m. on January 12, and that the formal opening will take place on February 28. I do not know that there is much I can usefully add to that.
I might take advantage of the opportunity to reply to a question asked by the hon.
Supply-Transport
member for Oxford. The answer is that the art selection is made by an art selection committee, one member of which is the head of the national gallery.


I should like to take a couple of minutes of the committee's time on one or two subjects. We have ranged rather far and wide, Mr. Chairman, so I hope you will let me conclude my remarks without interruption. First of all I should like to thank the minister for his co-operative attitude in connection with the representations I have made to him. We appreciate that.
However, I am a little concerned about airport facilities, particularly at Quesnel. The last time I was at Quesnel I saw the strange sight of the ticket agent making out tickets on the baggage wagon on the airstrip. There is absolutely no place in the Quesnel airport for passengers who are getting on or off planes. If it happens to be raining they have to get into a taxi or go into one of the hangar sheds for private aircraft. It would seem to me that one of the problems Canadian Pacific Airlines have in operating out of Quesnel is the lack of airport facilities for passengers.
Another thing that concerns me is the situation when an air service fails and for some reason or other cannot meet its scheduled flights. There have been cases where such a carrier had landing rights in certain airports and refused landing rights to other carriers who were willing to provide the service. I have actually had experience with this situation, and I hope a closer check will be made in connection with this matter so that people who want to get from one place to another when the regular carrier is unable to fulfil its obligations will have the right to use another carrier which is willing to provide the service. This is most important in an area such as the Cariboo, where there are a lot of air minded people. As the minister knows there are many aircraft being used, both private and commercial, because this particular area lends itself very well to air transport.
I believe that at the moment the fares on Canadian Pacific Airlines in this area are too high, and therefore they are not getting the traffic that is available. If the fares were reduced by even a small amount I am sure the traffic would increase and these large aircraft they are using would be filled closer to capacity. Perhaps the minister could use his influence in that regard, and I hope consideration will be given to this point.
I think it has been demonstrated by Pacific Western Air Lines that what they call a bus service between Edmonton and Calgary is practical. I think an air bus service from Whitehorse or from Fort St. John, with a

Supply-Transport
reduced fare and no reservations but just picking up your tickets on the aircraft, could provide better service all around.
There is one other thing I should like to mention, but I hesitate to do so. I hope when the minister goes to Winnipeg he does not have to shave with an electric razor. The washroom in Winnipeg, which is as big as any office in this building, has no outlet in which to plug an electric razor. I looked all over this new airport to find a place to use an electric razor and finally wound up in the kitchen. I hope the minister will have better success in finding the outlet than I did.


Mr. Chairman, I have a last question to put to the Minister of Transport. In view of the scope afforded by this item, the last one on that subject, can the Minister of Transport tell us whether it is true that when the contract was passed between T.C.A. and Douglas Aircraft in the United States, it was agreed that the tail units of the DC-9s would be built in Toronto and that the overhaul and maintenance of these aircraft would