On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State for External Affairs I would like to ask a question of the Prime Minister regarding the series of occurrences on the autobahn which, while the matter is peculiarly one for the big three allied powers, affects all NATO nations. I would ask the Prime Minister whether representations have been made to the United States against indulging in actions that are provocative and dangerous in their implications.


Mr. Speaker, without accepting the right hon. gentleman's description of United States policy in this matter, we are making inquiries, and I hope that as a result of these inquiries either the Secretary of State for External Affairs or I will be able to make a statement on Tuesday morning.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Prime Minister. Is the government of Canada giving any form of assistance to the government of Pakistan in connection with its program of reorganization, improvement and enlargement of its defence forces?


Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether the hon. gentleman would repeat the question. I did not quite get it.


Is the government of Canada giving any form of assistance to the government of Pakistan in connection with that government's program for the reorganization, improvement and enlargement of its defence forces?


To my knowledge, Mr. Speaker, no, but I had better look into the matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the statement made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs, could the right hon. gentleman tell us whether there has been a change in Canada's stand toward the recognition of the new regime in South Viet Nam?


No, Mr. Speaker; that matter is under consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Can the Prime Minister say
whether representations have been made by the United States to Canada and to other NATO nations in favour of denying the sale by any of those nations of unstrategic materials on a credit basis to the U.S.S.R.?


I understand that reports have appeared in the press recently concerning discussions among NATO members on the subject of long term credit to the Soviet union and other communist countries in respect of the commodities which the right hon. gentleman has mentioned. As the house knows, it is the custom for members of NATO to hold periodic discussions relating to these and other matters of interest to the alliance. These discussions are, of course, of a confidential nature but I may say that no representations have been made to the Canadian government on this matter by the United States government or by any other government.


Would the Prime Minister not agree that if such representations were made-and there have been many reports that they have been made to NATO countries other than Canada-Canada should take the same attitude as the United Kingdom and continue to sell on credit regardless of the wishes of the United States?


Since I have said no representations have been made, the right hon. gentleman's question is surely hypothetical.

Inquiries of the Ministry


It is not very hypothetical according to the New York Times.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In the matter of the recent agreement to sell wheat to the Soviet union, was the Canadian wheat board making use of grain companies as agents and, if they were, what part of this transaction was handled by grain companies acting as agents of the Canadian wheat board?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to the first part of that question is yes, the wheat board did make use, as usual, of its agents, and the Soviet union also made use of its agents in the transaction. It would not be in the public interest, nor would it be in conformity with public policy, to reveal the proportions or amounts done by individual agents.


As a supplementary question, when the minister spoke of the Soviet union having agents, do I assume these were simply agents of the Soviet government, or was it using grain companies as agents on this continent?


The Soviet union uses international grain trading firms, just as the wheat board does, the only difference being that it uses them for buying while we use them for selling.


Did they use them in this instance?


Yes, they did, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I am sorry I did not give him notice but usually, it seems to me, the hon. gentleman has his music with him. Can the minister tell us how he is getting along in his exploration for new markets for potatoes which are very plentiful and very good in the maritimes just now?


Perhaps the hon. gentleman
would not agree, but I think we are making satisfactory progress.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question of the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Has the minister or the government expressed their willingness to share an additional $10 per month on old age assistance, blind and disabled allowances, so that the provinces may come to the November 25 conference prepared to accept such a suggestion without having to go back to their respective governments for agreement?


Mr. Speaker, all aspects of this matter were discussed in September last at the ministerial meeting in Ottawa.


All I am asking is whether the provincial governments are in a position to come here to accept this. Have they been told this is available?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot speak for provincial governments.


Mr. Speaker, as a supplementary question, has the government's announced policy of withdrawing from joint programs changed the hon. lady's position in this regard since the meeting last September, of which she made mention?


The hon. member for Quebec West.


I repeat my question. Has the government's announced policy of withdrawing from joint programs changed the hon. lady's attitude in this regard since the meeting of last September which she mentioned?


No, Mr. Speaker.


1 have a further supplementary question for the Prime Minister. Is it Liberal policy, as outlined in this pamphlet, that an increase in the old age assistance pension to $75 per month will be made available to single women and widows at age 60, and the blind and disabled? Is it government policy, inasmuch as it was promised in the last election?


Orders of the day are not the appropriate place to discuss matters of policy of this kind as you yourself, Mr. Speaker, pointed out the other day in laying down the rules that should govern questions.

Inquiries of the Ministry


Another retreat.	DEFENCE PRODUCTION


I rise on a point of order, sir.


Oh, oh.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker.


Which is it, a point of order or a question of privilege?


I may state my privilege very succinctly and briefly. The Prime Minister says that orders of the day is not the time for us to ask these questions regarding federal-provincial relations. May I inform this house, as I reach my point of privilege, that before the month of June last year I asked a series of questions of the minister-


Order.


Mr. Speaker, if I could have silence I would state my question of privilege. Howling down by this arrogant government is something that cannot be condoned. Last June I asked at least two ministers pointed questions about federal-provincial relations. Subsequently I put on the order paper three motions for the production of papers asking for information. This was before June 26 last. We are now, Mr. Speaker, less than two weeks away from a federal-provincial conference, and I am still without that information.
Today we asked the ministry questions relating to federal-provincial affairs, but we were told orders of the day was not the time to ask those questions. My point of privilege is this. This is a new, subtle, Machiavellian type of closure.


Oh, oh.


Hon. members may laugh, but it so happens that at this stage in Canadian confederation, federal-provincial relations are exercising the imaginations of many people. This is a new, subtle type of closure, when opposition members cannot get information.


Order. I have been as lenient as possible because, for obvious reasons, I was interested in hearing the question of privilege raised by the hon. member for Brome-Missisquoi. It might be useful to recall to all hon. members citation 178 in Beau-chesne's fourth edition:
Questions addressed to ministers should relate to the public affairs with which they are officially connected, to proceedings pending in parliament, or to any matter of administration for which the minister is responsible. Within these lines an explanation can be sought regarding the intentions of the government, but not an expression of opinion upon matters of policy.
I do not believe the hon. member has anything more to add. At least the latter part of his statement I thought was out of order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Defence Production I have a question for the acting minister, of which I have given notice. Is it a fact that the United States congress has revised its decision and has now agreed to continue to participate in the Canadian Caribou II development program, as reported in last night's issues of the Ottawa Citizen and the Ottawa Journal?


Mr. Speaker, I regret to have to advise that the report is incorrect. In the absence of the Minister of Defence Production, I am informed by his officers that to the best of their knowledge the whole matter of continuing participation in the development of the Caribou II aircraft is still under consideration by the appropriate committees of the United States House of Representatives and Senate. When a final decision has been taken, an announcement will be made by the minister.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, will the Minister of Transport reconsider his position on the question of the T.C.A. overhaul base in Winnipeg and make available to the Manitoba authorities the Dixon-Speas report so that the province can examine the arguments contained therein, which so far have been kept secret?


I think this is a question for the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Prime Minister in connection with the T.C.A. overhaul and maintenance base in Winnipeg. Has the Prime Minister suggested to the provincial government of Manitoba that a detailed and comprehensive submission should be made concerning the economic conditions surrounding that problem, and, if so, how can that be done by the provincial government without access to the Dixon-Speas report?


I have not made such a suggestion myself to the Manitoba government.

Inquiries of the Ministry FINANCE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. The president of the B. F. Goodrich Company, speaking in Windsor, has said that his firm has found that tariffs between the United States and Canada are about 100 per cent higher than they were before the recent auto parts announcement. I should like to ask the minister if this is correct, and whether he considers that some act of retaliation is being exercised by the government of the United States.


Mr. Speaker, so far as I know the laws of the United States on tariffs remain as they were. I cannot believe that the gentleman in question is quoted correctly, or that he was speaking about facts if he was, because the laws of the United States are acts of congress that cannot be changed overnight.


May I put a supplementary question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce following the statement I made a moment ago. Would the minister look into the statement made by the president of the Goodrich company of Canada in the course of his speech at Windsor that rubber sealing strips were now facing a tariff of 17 per cent instead of 8J per cent, and that farm tractor tires, which formerly had been admitted without paying any duty at all, were now faced with a tariff of 8-J per cent? I wonder if the minister would look into this to see whether the statements are factual and whether they reflect any retaliatory action by the United States.


I will be happy to do so. I can assure the hon. member that in any case this would not represent retaliatory action. If it has happened, it has been pursuant to laws passed by the United States before the auto parts announcement was made.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. The matter was brought to my attention yesterday by the newspaper which mentioned that the Postmaster General and 16 other members from Quebec went to make representations to the royal commission on biculturalism. During that visit one member

asked the commissioners not to be a smokescreen. Was this visit intended to make sure that the royal commission would not be a smokescreen?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Revenue. Has he received complaints from taxpayers whose income tax returns were altered without notice, especially with regard to charitable donations?


Mr. Speaker, I think it is fair to say that the Department of National Revenue receives many letters expressing different views on this matter, but I want to make it clear that so far as charitable donations are concerned, amounts are not reduced arbitrarily. As I have said before in the house, an attempt is made in all cases to verify the correctness of the amounts claimed.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question. Could the Minister of National Revenue have an investigation made at the Quebec office to find out if the policy he mentioned regarding the procedure to be followed has always been carried out?


I am glad to say I am regularly in touch with most of the offices, particularly the Quebec office, and I am quite certain that that policy is carried out in Quebec. The same policy is carried out in the Quebec office as is carried out in the rest of Canada.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the list of business which the Prime Minister gave us last Monday appears in the main to be a list of business for the next session of parliament, can he tell us whether that list, when it is completed, will include legislation respecting health insurance or medicare?


Mr. Speaker, as this question seems to me to

consider the next session of parliament, I do not think it can be considered urgent today.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the Prime Minister whether this subject will be considered at the forthcoming federal-provincial conference?


I think the agenda of the forthcoming conference has already been tabled, so my hon. friend will know what it is.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, is the Prime Minister now in a position to say when the report of the royal commission on health services presided over by Mr. Justice Hall will be brought down?


I am not, Mr. Speaker. My last information was that it would be available some time between the end of November and the early part of December, but I will make further inquiries.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue. Could he explain why the deputy minister of public works does not sit on the executive of the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation as did his predecessor, Mr. Young?


Order. I do not think this question is in order.


I should like to answer it, Mr. Speaker.


It is not in order.


If the minister thinks he can answer my question, I feel the house would be interested to know why the deputy minister of public works, Mr. La-londe, does not sit on the executive, as did his predecessor, Mr. Young, when he held the same post.
Is it because the new deputy minister of public works is a French Canadian that he is not allowed to sit on the executive?


Certainly that question is definitely out of order on several grounds,
Inquiries of the Ministry not the least of which is that matters of administration are surely the responsibility of the minister himself. While there is no particular objection to inquiring for this information, I suppose, certainly the last part of the question was completely out of order.


On the orders of the day:
Since the Prime Minister was, very properly, away yesterday, I was unable to ask him the following question. I wish to address it to him today. Is it now the stand of the government of Canada that shared programs with the provinces shall end?


The policy of the government on this matter has already been announced, and I have nothing to add to what has previously been said.


By whom?


Has the Prime Minister read the words of the President of the Privy Council in this connection; his speech in Toronto? I ask the right hon. gentleman again whether it is the purpose of this government to do away with shared programs.


As I have stated, the policy of the government on this matter has been announced. It has been announced both by myself and by the President of the Privy Council, and I have nothing to add.


Do I take it the Prime Minister is now saying that the statement made in Toronto by the President of the Privy Council, to the effect that the government would be prepared to withdraw from joint federal-provincial programs and to compensate provincial governments willing to take over such programs on their own, is the official position of the government with regard to this question?


That statement is not a new one; it has been made before on behalf of the government-that we would be prepared to consider, with the provinces, withdrawing from these programs in certain circumstances.


May I ask the Prime Minister a question. Will he consider, not today but at an early date, making a clear statement to the house indicating which of these shared programs the government is considering withdrawing from, so that the uncertainties that are now created can be cleared up?

Income Tax Act


There is no uncertainty of which I am aware, but I shall be glad to take the hon. member's suggestion under consideration.


May I ask a supplementary question. Will the Prime Minister state whether the speech made by the President of the Privy Council represented government policy in regard to joint programs?


I have already answered that question.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister without Portfolio, the hon. member for Matapedia-Matane. Since the establishment of the joint department or of the double office of ministers of agriculture is postponed indefinitely, could the minister assure the house and eastern farmers that he will speak forcibly on their behalf to the cabinet and push the demands of eastern farmers in particular.


Mr. Speaker, like all other Liberal members in the house, I shall always champion the eastern farmers.


The house resumed, from Thursday, November 7, consideration in committee of Bill No. C-95, to amend the Income Tax Act- Mr Gordon-Mr. Lamoureux in the chair.
On clause 16-Exemption of income from manufacturing or processing business in designated areas.
When we were last discussing the amendment to this clause, the Minister of Finance was going to give the committee his views on this section relating to the 95 per cent provision covering the cost of machinery, and we were discussing whether new and old machinery would be eligible. Has the minister any further remarks to make?


I think we pretty well exhausted the subject, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Chairman, would you read the amendment?


Yes.
That clause 16, section 71A, subclause (3) be amended by substituting 25 per cent in place of 95 per cent in line 17 and by substituting 25 per cent in place of 95 per cent in line 45.
(Mr. Knowles.]
All those in favour of the amendment will please rise.
Amendment (Mr. Skoreyko) negatived: Yeas, 39; nays, 83.


Before this clause carries, would the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry or the Minister of Labour tell us what the government's future intentions are relating to consultations with municipalities before they are designated under this provision? I think by now hon. members opposite realize that we consider this principle of consultation extremely important. Is it the government's intention in the future to consult local officials before designating areas?


Mr. Chairman, the Minister of Industry has already stated that when we have had some experience with this legislation he will be considering ways and means of improving it. Apart from that I do not think I can go further at this moment, except to point out to the hon. member that if any consultations of that kind were to be conducted, the proper thing would be to talk to the provinces rather than the municipalities.


On this subject, would the minister give us an assurance that he will reconsider the designation of Brantford before the 12 months expire?


I would be very pleased to give the hon. member an assurance that all the areas, and the formula, will be considered once we have had a little experience with it.


I have one question for clarification of what the minister indicated the day before yesterday, that the areas are designated on the basis of reporting districts of the national employment service. It has been the practice of the national employment service to extend the number of its offices, and this will create new reporting districts. I am thinking of the case put forward by the hon. member for Renfrew South, when he indicated that in one reporting district there was great disparity of conditions but by reason of an average the district qualified as a designated area. In other words, within a reporting district there could be an area that would not qualify, an area that was pretty well off. What happens under that circumstance? Does that district lose its qualification, or what happens to any projects started in it?


Quite clearly anybody who started an operation to take advantage of these inducements should not be penalized. Apart from that I really have not anything to add to what I have said already. If any of these national employment districts should

Income Tax Act
be changed, then there will be a problem that will have to be dealt with, but I have not heard any suggestion that any of these particular areas are going to be affected in that way.


I wonder if the minister would enlarge on the wording in line 35 on page 13, "new manufacturing or processing business." What does he mean by this? Does a new manufacturing company have to be manufacturing a new product?


The definition is the same that v/as used under the old section 40A, which was introduced by my friend the hon. member for Digby-Annapolis-Kings a year ago.


Clause agreed to.
Clauses 17 and 18 agreed to.
On clause 19.
Mr. Chairman, I suggest that this clause be reconsidered, because here again the government is doing something that is definitely not very advisable. In this connection I would like to quote from Hansard of November 9, 1962 dealing with the question of special provisions for pipe line companies to deduct exploration costs as business expenses. The question which comes to my mind is, why would a pipe line company rfnbark on the process of drilling and exploration unless it were going to embark on oil and gas production?
On November 9, 1962 the hon. member for Kingston, who since that time has been elevated another step in the hierarchy, had some very pointed things to say about special provisions being given to oil and gas companies. I remember thinking at the time it was an excellent speech, in fact I marked it very carefully in Hansard, and I am glad the matter has come up again. Quoting from page 1464 of Hansard for November 9, 1962 the hon. member for Kingston had this to say:
That is fine. Resolutions 6 to 10 primarily affect the oil and gas industry in Canada. It was estimated by the previous minister when they were introduced that they will cost the treasury some $15 million in a full year. The oil and gas industry as such will contribute very little to the income tax revenue of the federal government even though its gross revenue exceeds $500 million. I can think of no other industry in Canada in this favourable position.
It has been claimed that this industry needs further encouragement to find reserves. According to figures produced by the Canadian petroleum association, at the end of 1961 reserves on hand in Canada amounted to 18.9 years supply. If we compare our situation with the United States we will find that the United States had on hand at the same date some 12 years supply, and over the past 100 years the United States working inventory has ranged between 10 and 15 years-
What we need is more and faster growing markets for petroleum products. If we had these we would not need tax concessions to stimulate the search for oil. It is noteworthy in this regard that we import far more oil than we export, in spite of our unused capacity, and this is a factor contributing to our exchange problems. Incidentally, although we have had a national oil program, according to bureau of statistics figures capital investment in oil producing was $561 million in 1961 compared with $697 million in 1957.
I suggest that the situation is no way changed from the time when the hon. member for Kingston made that very eloquent and telling speech, and I would urge the Minister of Finance, in view of his situation with regard to our national housekeeping, that he should cast a very dubious eye over this measure that he introduced some months ago, and determine whether this is justified in the light of Canada's present economic situation and in the light of his own views with regard to budgetary deficits. I should hope this particular provision would be reconsidered by the government in the light of the figures presented by the hon. member for Kingston, and in the light of the figures I myself presented during that same session, in 1962.


I thank the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands for complimenting iqe on my speech of last year, and I can assure him that my views generally toward these sections of the act have not changed. However, it was not deemed advisable to withdraw the sections in this particular budget, which was a decision of the government. In dealing with this particular clause, however, which is designed to extend the privileges which exist under the substance of the act to the pipe line companies, I am in complete agreement with it as such.
The majority of the independent pipe line companies in Canada are Canadian owned. As I recall it, three out of five are Canadian owned, and their position has been that they are not allowed the advantage of going out and developing their own raw materials to send through their own pipe lines. As these companies are to a large extent Canadian owned I would like to see them continue to exist, and they should have the same right as integrated companies to write off their exploration and development expenses. Integrated oil and pipe line companies can now write off their development expenses. The cost of going out and expanding their fields can be written off against the operations of their pipe lines, whereas an independent pipe line company cannot do this. In a similar sense you can take the large steel companies in Canada which have the

Income Tax Act
privilege of going out west and writing oil expenditures in this regard as against steel profits in eastern Canada.
The purpose of the section is to extend fair play to independent pipe line companies.


I find the hon. member's argument singularly unpersuasive. What he is telling us is that we are allowing some people unjustifiably to get into the public treasury and we should allow others to exercise their sticky fingers in the same way. Any pipe line company that embarks on a program of development and exploration becomes an integrated company. It has an integrated operation. At any rate, I suggest that last year the hon. member for Kingston considered these allowances to be scandalously unjustified; and to give them to other companies just because some companies have these allowances, which he considers scandalously unjustified, does not seem to me a suitable argument for extending the scandal a little farther even under the guise of these other companies being true blue Canadian companies.
I do not think it really matters very much to the Canadian consumer whether he is robbed by a Canadian or robbed by a foreigner. On the other hand, I do suggest this is something that indicates the necessity for a complete overhaul of this section of our fiscal set-up, and I would be much better pleased to see the minister come forward with a completely revamped structure in this regard rather than, as I say, compounding the mistake that has already been made in regard to existing companies.


If I may, I should like to make my position clear. Last year I was against all these allowances and the sections in the act dealing with them. Quite honestly I still have grave doubts with regard to their validity from a taxation point of view. Let me first state that. However, since it has been the decision of the government to allow these sections to stand, I think there is a strong argument that the same benefits should be extended to the independent pipe line companies as are extended to the large integrated companies at the present time.


Mr. Chairman, I have been interested in this hybrid section of the Income Tax Act for a good many years. I want to support what the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands has said. I cannot continue without complimenting him on his elephantine memory, which is very useful on occasions.
[Mr. Benson.)
We object to this type of legislation regardless of the explanation, and one could see that the parliamentary secretary was most uncomfortable in having to make a retreat on account of expediency. We object in principle to this type of legislation which permits these corporations to deduct from their taxable income the cost of mining operations and in other cases the cost of well drilling and pipe lines. As a matter of fact, on account of this legislation being in the Income Tax Act the Canadian people have financed United States subsidiaries in Canada to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars. Then we are told we have not got the capital in Canada.
I want to take the opportunity to mention again something I have mentioned in previous years, because it is obvious that the government is going to continue this same practice on this occasion. We have been told repeatedly that this type of clause in the Income Tax Act was intended to promote investment and increase production in Canada. That is what we were told some years ago when it was first introduced into the Income Tax Act.
I want to ask the minister this question. On the basis of that argument, and if the principle is going to be continued, has any further consideration been given to extending the same advantages to farmers who increase production as a result of clearing, draining or irrigating land? All these activities increase production. The farmer, who is a small person compared to these companies, gets no advantage at the present time although he does exactly the same thing that these large companies which are taking advantage of the act are doing.
I also want to bring to the attention of the minister a paragraph in the annual report of the Department of Forestry for 1961-62. Under the heading "Study of the Effects of Income Tax on Private Timber Management" it reads as follows:
This study was begun in co-operation with officials of the taxation divisions of the Departments of Finance and National Revenue in response to representations that have been made to the government. Its purpose is to examine the merits of recommended tax changes that would modify the taxing of income that is solely attributable to timber growth. The study should reveal conditions under which the growing of timber by private enterprise will be encouraged.
I want to ask the minister two questions before I sit down. First, has consideration been given to extending to the farmers of the country who increase production by any method the same privileges that are extended to these large corporations? Second, what has been the result of the study referred to in this report, and is the department giving consideration to extending the same privileges

Income Tax Act
to tree farmers who are farming on management principles over a long term and who are increasing production while at the same time, because of their practices, maintaining a perpetual yield and conserving our forest resource capital in so far as that comes within their jurisdiction? Is the minister giving any consideration to amending the act in the future to allow these people to enjoy the same privileges as large corporations?


Mr. Chairman, I am very interested in the points that the hon. member for Kootenay West has just raised. Like him, I happen to be a tree farmer, although I suspect I am a very much smaller tree farmer than the hon. member. However, I know enough about it to be sympathetic. I think the matter should be investigated, and I will see that it is done. I am not familiar with the report the hon. member mentioned, but I will look it up and see that the matter is looked into.
As to the main point that the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands has mentioned, I not only compliment him on his elephantine memory but also on his pungent phraseology, some of which I do not always agree with. It seemed to me that his point was whether it is necessary any longer, if it was necessary originally, to grant fairly substantial concessions to a particular industry.
I must say that personally I think he has raised a very important point. It is something that the Department of Finance started to consider before the budget and then we decided that in view of the magnitude of the problem perhaps we should wait until we had heard from the royal commission on taxation, who I am sure are looking into the matter. It seemed to us that in the meantime these particular companies which are essentially in the same industry should not be penalized, and that is the purpose of clause 19. I agree with the hon. member that the broader issue should be investigated and looked at very seriously.


Mr. Chairman, I am wondering where the hon. member for Kingston gets his information when he speaks of these pipe line companies as being mainly Canadian companies. If he has some information I would certainly be glad if he would give it to the committee.


I am speaking offhand, but I will be glad to check into the statistics with regard to the matter. As I recall the situation there are five of these companies, three of which are Canadian controlled. I do not have the information with me, but I will be glad to check. As I said, three of the five are
Canadian controlled companies. With regard to the fourth there is some doubt whether control is in Canada or the United States. As to the fifth, the majority of the stock is held in the United States.


If one takes the total capital assets of all companies I do not think there is any doubt about the fact that the preponderant ownership of the pipe line companies in Canada is located in the United States.


I think the hon. member may be mistaken about that. The largest one, of course, is Trans-Canada which, according to my recollection, is 80 per cent controlled in Canada.


Does this mean that the Texas buccaneers have unloaded themselves of their ownership and control?


It means that control has changed.


Mr. Chairman, I think we would appreciate having some information on this matter, and maybe the Minister of Finance or his parliamentary secretary would supply it. I know something about the pipe line companies in the west, and I know that a good many of them are mainly owned in the United States. If the minister says he has some information I will be glad to sit down so he can put it on the record. I thought the minister was going to give it.


I have not got it here.


If the minister is not going to give it now I want to say that I think the whole question ought to be thoroughly investigated. I am not sure that the government is justified in saying that the matter is going to be discussed by the royal commission on taxation, and therefore the government should not do anything. If the principle is wrong we should be restricting it instead of extending it. The only justification for allowing companies to carry on drilling and exploration programs at public expense, which is what this legislation means, would be if we were faced with a possible shortage of gas and oil supplies. This is certainly not the case. What we have done in this country over the years is to finance, out of the public treasury, drilling and exploration programs that have resulted in fantastic profits for oil and pipe line companies, a goodly number of which are owned in the United States.
Instead of the government extending this I think it should be eliminated. We will certainly be watching with keen interest what the Minister of Finance does when he brings down his budget, and I certainly urge him
4S44

Income Tax Act
not to wait till the royal commission brings down its report. I suggest that for his midnight reading, instead of perusing the Diefenbaker years he should read the speech of the hon. member for Kingston, and having read and digested it I hope he puts the fine conclusions to which the hon. member came into legislation when he brings down his budget.


Clause agreed to.
Clauses 20 and 21 agreed to.
On clause 22-Tax.
I have an amendment to propose to clause 22 to which I invite the attention of the committee. I shall move the same amendment to clauses 23 and 28 when they are reached.
Clause 22 imposes a special tax of 5 per cent on certain dividends and corporations which do not have "a degree of Canadian ownership and control". I invite the committee to notice the words "and control". I might mention for the sake of completeness that clause 23 uses the same phrase. It alters the rate of the withholding tax so as to impose a tax of 10 per cent after the date fixed in the clause dealing with dividend payments by corporations with "a degree of Canadian ownership and control"; it imposes a 20 per cent withholding tax on corporations which do not so qualify.
Clause 28 defines what is to be deemed, for the purposes of the act-that is covered by clauses 22 and 23-a corporation which has a degree of Canadian ownership and control. By clause 28 a corporation is deemed to have a degree of Canadian ownership and control if two alternative conditions and another condition exist; that is to say, if 25 per cent of the voting shares are owned in Canada; second, if shares are listed on a Canadian exchange and no one foreign shareholder owns more than 75 per cent of the stock; and third, there is another condition that not less than 25 per cent of the directors are resident in Canada.
My proposed amendment will strike out of the phrase "a degree of Canadian ownership and control" wherever it appears the words "and control". The effect of the amendment would not be to change the substantive tax; the tax will remain precisely the same. The purpose of the amendment is to remove from the act what might be called a false and misleading label or description.
It is not necessary for me to discuss the merits of the proposed change. At the resolution stage we expressed our reasons for feeling that the proposed change did not achieve the stated purpose of encouraging Canadian control of industry, but in fact discouraged it. We in this party are all in

favour of effective legislation to encourage Canadian control of Canadian industry, but in my submission the label put on these corporations, which would benefit from the proposed incentives, of "a degree of Canadian ownership and control" is false and misleading. The words "and control" are meaningless. Under this definition a corporation can qualify for the incentives which could not, by any fair stretch of the language, be said to have a single trace of Canadian control. For example, a 25 per cent interest may in certain cases give a measure of control, but in the case of a wholly owned United States subsidiary, which is the most typical case with which we are dealing here, there would be no element of control whatsoever.
The same reasoning applies even more clearly to that part of the clause which states that all that is required to qualify is that shares should be listed on an exchange, and that no one foreign shareholder should own more than 75 per cent of the stock. Nor does the provision that one out of four directors should be resident in Canada give any measure or degree of Canadian control. It would be perfectly easy to have what is known as a dummy director, who to all intents and purposes would actually be 100 per cent subservient to the foreign shareholders. If I as a lawyer, or any other learned hon. member, were asked to give advice as to whether in the case of a corporation with 25 per cent of the shares owned in Canada and with one dummy director resident in Canada it could be said that there was any degree of control over that company, I would be negligent if I said yes. I would be fired from my job if were to be so misleading as to suggest that that state of affairs constituted any degree of control. There is no such thing as a degree of control; there is either control or no control. This state of affairs represents no control whatever.
My objection to the wording of the clause is not a frivolous or pedantic one. People are prosecuted who attach false labels to goods and then seek to sell them to the public, and they are rightly prosecuted. We condemn, and properly so, false advertising. Yet the government of Canada can sell this legislation to the public on the pretext that it is giving incentives and encouraging Canadian control over Canadian industry. This claim is not true. In my view parliament should set an example of honesty. According to the legal authorities it is true that parliament can declare black to be white and white to be black. I believe it was the famous Sir Edward Coke who said that.
But notwithstanding our right to declare white to be black and black to be white,

we must not be misleading. It is my view that it is misleading to define a corporation, lor purposes ol tax incentives, as having a degree of Canadian ownership and control when there may well be not one iota or scintilla of Canadian control involved. Therefore I move:
That clause 22 of the bill be amended by striking out from subsection (1) (a) and (1) (b) thereof the words "and control".
If this amendment meets with the approval of the committee I will move a similar amendment in respect of clause 23, where the words appear, and clause 28 when the same phrase appears.


I think this may well come as a surprise to the minister, but so far as clause 22 is concerned, which is section 105B (a), there is a complete divergence of expression. What is said in the French version is not what is said in the English version. The English version says:
-did not have a degree of Canadian ownership and control.
The French version says:
-n'etait dans aucune mesure possidie oil con-tr6l6e.
When we turn to clause 28, which is the definition clause, the meaning is the same in French as in English. Therefore there will have to be a necessary amendment to the French version to bring it in line with the thinking expressed by the act.
Having said that with respect to the drafting, I must say that I would go even further than the hon. member for Greenwood and repeat the remarks I made on the resolution stage and on second reading, that so far as the Canadianization or the patriation of capital is concerned, this provision means precisely nothing. It is already simple to have foreigners or non-Canadian citizens resident in Canada hold office for a period as managers or as local officials of companies. I refer particularly to smaller companies, not the larger ones; the privately held and controlled companies. I do not know many subsidiary companies in Canada which are public companies; they are primarily wholly owned or closely controlled subsidiaries of foreign corporations. To say that you are going to have a greater degree of control because you have Canadian residents or residents of Canada as directors is frankly nonsense. If you are going to have Canadian ownership and control, then these people must ba Canadian citizens.
I realize the minister may say that this is introducing into the act a concept of nationality or citizenship which does not exist in other parts of the Income Tax Act. There
Income Tax Act
is nothing else in the act which offers incentives to companies which have a Canadian nature, and the Canadian nature comes about by reason of this so-called ownership or control. The minister is himself introducing an exception into the act in this regard by providing for these incentives.
If he is trying to patriate foreign capital, let him go all the way. He is offering an incentive to capital. All right; let us make it Canadian. I cannot see the logic of the argument that because this provision does not exist elsewhere in the act it must not be introduced now; that we must not allow the principle of citizenship but, rather, that we must look merely to residence. I find the whole provision in this connection to be meaningless.
With regard to the amendment put forward by the hon. member for Greenwood, I think there may be some justification for it, though the words "and control" seem to be a reference to the directors rather than to the so-called ownership. It comes down to this. The hon. member is asking us to delete or subtract something from nothing.


I was impressed by what the hon. member for Greenwood had to say, though I do not think it makes any great difference one way or the other. I do not think there is any real substance in the point. I could argue, I suppose, that the present drafting has certain advantages, and it has, but I do not think it really matters. I wonder whether the hon. member would be willing to withdraw his proposed amendment and allow us to pass a separate amendment which I would ask my hon. friend the Minister of National Revenue to move in the following terms:
That Bill C-95, an act to amend the Income Tax Act, be amended by striking out the expression "ownership and control" wherever it appears therein and substituting therefor the expression "ownership".
Thus we would be able to do it all at one time.


Sounds all right to me.


Is it agreed that the hon. member may withdraw his amendment?


On the understanding that the minister will introduce an amendment which covers the same ground and goes one better.


I move the amendment which was read by my colleague.


I do not wish to be pedantic, but surely amendments have to be in terms more precise than this. Should we not be told in what clauses and in what lines this change takes place?

Income Tax Act


Not according to the Department of Justice, which prepared that amendment.


Under which clause of the bill will this amendment appear?


May I suggest that the amendment be made in connection with a specific clause. Perhaps it might be made to refer to clause 22 in this particular instance.


I wonder if the committee would allow this amendment to stand until we have had a chance to consult the lawyers.


I may have acted too quickly in withdrawing my amendment. It may be that my drafting is superior.


We can always give the hon. member for Greenwood the opportunity to come back.


I am glad the minister has accepted the principle. No doubt he can work it out.


The Department of Justice notwithstanding, I think your ruling is a proper one, Mr. Chairman. We should make amendments to specific clauses of the bill. We cannot, in committee, amend the bill. We amend clauses. What is the Department of Justice thinking about?


We are on clause 22, and I submit this is the only matter we can amend at this time.


It seems that the amendment, like Lucifer, is suspended between heaven and hell. I do not know what will happen to it finally, but I am wondering whether the minister has any general statement to make on this clause. It is a clause which is far reaching in its implications, and it is one which introduces an entirely new principle. I think it is just as important as any of the clauses upon which we have spent a certain amount of time in the past few days, and I would hope the minister has a statement to make with regard to it before we begin dealing with it ourselves, in our discussion in committee and possibly by moving amendments later. Does the minister wish to comment or make a statement?


I have made several statements on this subject. If the hon. member for Digby-Annapolis-Kings has anything to say about it I am sure we would be happy to hear from him, but I am not sure whether this other matter ought not to be disposed of first.


I think we would wish to take a look at the proposed amendment. I assume the minister is not urging that there should be a division on this at once. I should

like to look at it and see what effect the proposal might have. There is no point in having a vote on it right now, particularly in view of the ruling of the Chair that it must be applicable to a certain specific clause. I think we should study the application of the proposed amendment to the various clauses, and when we have done so we shall be in a better position to reach an opinion with regard to it.
I do not intend to speak at any length on this part o