Fifth report of standing committee on banking and commerce-Mr. Asselin (Notre Dame de Grace).
Mr. Speaker, I wish to make a statement about Canadian wheat board initial prices to producers for western wheat, oats and barley for the crop year beginning August 1, 1963. These are being fixed at $1.50 per bushel for No. 1 Manitoba northern, basis in store Fort William-Port Arthur or Vancouver; 60 cents per bushel for 2 C.W. oats, basis in store Fort William-Port Arthur; 96 cents per bushel for 3 C.W. six-row barley, basis in store Fort William-Port Arthur. These are the same levels as for these grades during the crop year which is now drawing to a close. Initial prices for other grades of western wheat, oats and barley will be announced later by the Canadian wheat board. Although the government takes full responsibility for the level of initial prices, under the Canadian Wheat Board Act the Canadian wheat board was, as is customary, asked to make its recommendations which were in accord with the government's decision.
Before reaching its decision on initial prices and on other aspects of the government's program which I shall refer to later, the government made a careful reassessment of the rapidly changing grain situation, and consulted not only with the Canadian wheat board but with a number of farm leaders from the prairies. Taking into consideration the stocks on hand, the record grain crop that appears likely to be produced on the prairies this year, the uncertainties created by the results of the United States farm referendum, and the negotiations now going on in Geneva under the auspices of GATT for new international arrangements for the marketing of cereals, the government came to the view that the initial prices should remain unchanged for the coming year. The government shares the opinion of major farm organizations that efforts should be concentrated on moving as much grain as possible.
There are two sides to this matter of our wheat marketing, supply and demand. Taking one year with another and a variation in yields which must be expected, we should aim to avoid the production of unmanageable surpluses and through appropriate crop diversification be in a position to meet changing domestic and foreign demand for wheat, coarse grains and livestock. Our production policies, including the various programs affecting wheat and other grains, must be designed to achieve these objectives. The government has initiated a review of these policies and programs to determine in what way they might be adjusted to achieve a better balance in agricultural production and the avoidance of burdensome surpluses. For example, the government considers that we should be in a better position than we are at present to meet the expected increase in demand for livestock and feed grains. On the demand side, the government is making every effort to help the wheat board to increase to the maximum commercial sales in markets throughout the world, wherever they are to be found.
The government has decided that the time has come to move forward on another front which should prove of both short run and long run advantage to western wheat producers. To help meet the food needs of the developing countries, Canada for many years now has been making wheat and flour available as part of our Colombo plan assistance. I wish to announce at this time the intention of the government to ask parliament to provide for a program of supplying wheat or wheat flour to international agencies, including the world food program, and to developing countries which are not now commercial markets or where commercial exports are limited by capacity to pay. Something can be done this year. The intention is on a progressive basis to increase the amount of Canadian food aid in appropriate relationship to the total of our assistance activities. It is expected that the total allocation for this purpose might rise to a level of around $40 million per annum over the course of the next few years.
The actual amount of wheat and flour to be made available for assistance purposes in the next crop year will depend on the needs of the world food program and the absorptive capacity of the developing countries we wish to assist. Safeguards will be introduced to ensure that the provision of additional Canadian wheat and flour does not interfere with
2560	HOUSE OF
Announcement of Initial Grain Prices the normal commercial marketings of Canada and other exporting countries whom we shall be consulting as appropriate. I am confident all members of the house will agree that food aid, in particular the provision of wheat and flour which we are so well placed to produce, should be a continuing and important part of our external development assistance programs as long as the need for food exists.
This enlarged program of food aid, in combination with the efforts that are being made to maintain and increase commercial sales, to gain access to import markets and to stabilize international trade at reasonable prices, seems to the government to represent the right approach to the problems that confront western grain producers under present circumstances. I feel confident it is an approach that will commend itself to western producers and to hon. members on all sides of the house.


Mr. Speaker, as I listened to the unveiling of this plan I could not but recollect that when we were in office we were criticized for assistance by way of wheat, grain, flour and the like to needy countries. I, and all hon. members of this party, are very happy at the conversion of those in the Liberal party who previously held the very reverse of the opinion inherent in the announcement today.
It will be recalled that we gave strong support to the setting up of an international food bank in order to provide assistance and aid to needy countries, and at the same time to permit the setting aside of surpluses which otherwise would hang over the market price. Furthermore, we greatly expanded assistance under the Colombo plan to nations within the commonwealth. We increased this aid from $30 million to about $50 million. Last year, by reason of special circumstances, we reduced that amount, but it was still approximately $7J million or $10 million more than had been the case when we came into office.
The minister also made reference to the need to expand our markets, and we are also in accord with that. We recall so well that during the days of the previous Liberal government the then minister of trade and commerce stated "If they want our wheat let them come and get it." That was not the attitude of the government of which I had the honour to be head. We expanded our markets, and we are now glad to hear that the present government intends to follow in our footsteps and will make available the


necessary credits to those nations which because of their peculiar economic conditions would be unable to make the required purchases.
I have nothing to say in regard to the initial price. The ultimate determination as to whether what is being done is worth while so far as the farmer is concerned will await the final payment, which will indicate the actual price the farmer will be receiving. However, I am sure no one will be surprised when I express the view that the western farmer will be taken aback at the complete failure of the government to carry out one of its major agricultural promises-


Commitment.


-"commitment" is the word, whereby it undertook to pay $3 per bushel for the initial unit of 300 bushels. That seems to have joined the ranks of the forgotten promises, as well as the promise of a floor of $2 a bushel. It was singularly absent from the announcement made by the minister, and indicates that these two promises of $3 for the first 300 bushels and a $2 floor have joined the ranks of the forgotten promises of a few months ago.


Mr. Speaker, we in this group welcome the announcement that has just been made by the Minister of Trade and Commerce respecting the initial prices to be paid for wheat, but I think that welcome will have to be confined to the fact that it was announced a little earlier this year than it was last year. It is exactly the same as it was last year and, as the Leader of the Opposition has just pointed out, it appears to be a major retreat from the promises that were held out to the western farmers, first of all for $3 a bushel on the initial quota; and in so far as the $2 a bushel is concerned, being the floor price that was promised, I suppose we will have to wait and see what the final payment will be before we pass judgment.
I hope that the efforts of the Canadian wheat board in selling wheat and wheat flour in the international market will be supported by the government in allowing the wheat board to be more competitive; that is, to offer more competitive terms, which I think all hon. members realize are necessary in the international wheat market today. Credit, of course, is one of the very important terms that must be offered if we are to be competitive. Of course there are other things as well that should be taken into consideration.
The minister pointed out that there is a need for balancing the production of farm products; that is, to try to shift some of the emphasis to livestock products, for which

he suggested there is a demand. I suggest to him that this may be well so until we reach the point where we have a surplus in this area of farm production also. While the beef industry particularly is the only part of farm production that is in a healthy position today, I suggest to him this is so because there has not been overproduction of this product. It seems to me it is rather important that we consider keeping a healthy industry healthy.
Regarding the matter of offering food in the form of wheat and wheat flour to countries as aid, I would say on behalf of this party that we welcome this program. We have suggested over the years that this is an area to which the Canadian government should really be paying a little more attention. I hope when they do make these offers they will take into consideration the depressed condition of the flour milling industry across Canada and perhaps put a little more emphasis on offering the product that is processed in Canada rather than the raw material, which has been the case in the past. I might also say in closing that we were a little perturbed about the cut made in the Colombo plan last year by the previous government. We are happy to see that the government is moving into this food aid program even though it may be in a different channel.


Mr. Speaker, the prairie farmers generally will be disappointed at the announcement that has been made with reference to the initial price that is going to be paid on this year's crop. A former agricultural spokesman for the Liberal party used to describe such announcements as peanuts.


That is right.


Hear, hear.


Certainly that would be a very apt description of what is being proffered today. I would have hoped the minister would say something about the very definite commitment made to prairie farmers by the Prime Minister in his statement in Saskatoon on March 6 last. That commitment involved two things. It involved first of all a guaranteed payment of $2 a bushel for wheat, basis Fort William; it also involved a two price system for wheat under which the wheat consumed in Canada would be estimated on the equated price and the extra money would be paid to the farmers on their initial delivery quota.
The minister has made no mention of either of those commitments, nor has either the minister or the Prime Minister at any time said this is now accepted as part of the Liberal commitment and that if it is not going to be done now, it will be done in the
Announcement of Initial Grain Prices near future. The government has simply ignored its commitment, but I think it will not be allowed to forget it by the great bulk of the farmers of the prairie provinces.
With reference to the proposal that additional wheat and wheat flour should be given to emerging nations, I am sure this will have the support of the people of Canada. Certainly I can assure the government that it will have the support of the members of this party. At a time when we have surplus food in Canada one of the great weapons of democracy is to use this surplus food to help strengthen the emerging nations and help them in this period of transition through which they are now passing.
However, I do not think forty or fifty million dollars worth of wheat or wheat flour is going to solve our problems, and I hope the government will be giving some consideration to following the program which the United States has followed of making wheat available to countries who need it in exchange for foreign currency, or even on a barter basis, and certainly on a long term credit basis.
Unless this wheat can be moved it is going to create a very serious economic problem for the people of Canada. But the immediate problem, the problem to which I think the government ought to give its attention, is the price for the farmers. The bright promise which has been made by the government of a $2 a bushel guaranteed payment and a two price system is something to which we hope the government will give attention, and give assurance to the house that this will not be merely a forgotten promise.

On the orders of the day;


May I have your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, because of the fact I am not sure to whom I should address this question. Is there any truth in the rather substantial rumours in western Canada that the cash advances are going to be subjected to 4 per cent interest this year? Second, in so far as the announcement by the Minister of Trade and Commerce is concerned, can he assure us that the wheat board will be reimbursing the farmers by at least the price under the international wheat agreement for the wheat and flour that is given away?


The answer to the first question is that there is no substance to the rumour.
The answer to the second question is that the wheat board sells for cash and, so far as I know, always at the same price for the same grade. The wheat that is given in aid
2562	HOUSE OF
Announcement of Initial Grain Prices or used for developmental assistance will, of course, be paid for at the going price at the time.


May
I ask a supplementary question concerning the initial price of wheat. The minister said he had consulted the leaders of western farm organizations. Were their suggestions in line with the prices he announced today for wheat, oats and barley?


Some of them were.


May I ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce whether the provisions concerning wheat flour which he announced today for the world food program are in addition to the commitment already made, or are they part of the original commitment?


The statement I made was that I hoped we would build up our food assistance in the form of wheat and flour to a level of about $40 million a year.


May I
ask a supplementary question. In view of this strong shift to giveaways in connection with wheat and wheat flour, particularly under the world food program, will this be done at the expense of our previous commitment to provide dairy products?


The short answer to the hon. member's question, Mr. Speaker, is no.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce, who has given us a very disappointing announcement regarding the initial payment for wheat. My question arises out of the fact that he stated he was worried about the unmanageable surpluses. My question is, what surpluses did he have in mind, and what scheme would the government have in order to manage these surpluses; or is it like the old Liberal government of bygone days, where they paid-


Order.


Where they paid for keeping the land out of crop.


Order. You have stated your question, let the minister answer.


Mr. Speaker, I am not sure what the question was. I listened to a speech. However, I do suggest that when the farmers of western Canada know about the program I have announced today to extend more food aid to the needy countries of the world, and


thereby increase the markets for Canadian wheat and flour, they will not be disappointed.
I think the second part of the question had something to do with what I stated about unmanageable surpluses. What I had in mind was the possibility that if we do not follow appropriate policies we might have unmanageable surpluses.


Why didn't you think of that before the election?


I say to the hon. member who has just interrupted, I do not think it helped greatly when the former minister suggested the farmers should grow all the wheat they could, and that he would sell it for them.


And he would have, too.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Might not the Minister of Trade and Commerce be well advised to get Alvin Hamilton to help him sell the wheat?


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker-


Order. I think this is becoming in the nature of a debate. The hon. member for New Westminster.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a supplementary question. It is not a question of debate. My supplementary question is briefly this-


Order.


How many million bushels does the minister say his policy will help get rid of; how many million bushels will they export?


None.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce to the house the approval in principle by this government of the proposal of the government of Nova Scotia for the establishment of a new national park in Nova Scotia. This announcement is being made simultaneously by Hon. R. L. Stanfield, premier of Nova Scotia, for the government of Nova Scotia, and by myself and on behalf of my colleague the Minister of Labour for the government of Canada. At this time I want also to thank for their co-operation and assistance members of parliament from the province of Nova Scotia who sit both to your right and to your left.

The proposed national park is to be established at Kejimkujik lake in western Nova Scotia and becomes the first national park to be established since the creation of Terra Nova national park in Newfoundland in 1957. The proposed national park is 38 miles south of Annapolis Royal and 150 miles west of Halifax. It is considered to be an outstanding example of Nova Scotia's beauty of forest and sea. More than 20 lakes, some with excellent beach potential, and a number of connecting rivers are the heart of the park proposal. In addition to the lake area, a representative section of Nova Scotia's Atlantic shore line will be preserved as part of the new national park. Kejimkujik lake will be the site of the national park in Nova Scotia and the nineteenth national park in Canada. Cape Breton Highlands national park on Cape Breton island, Nova Scotia, was established in 1936.
On behalf of the people of Canada I wish to express our gratitude to the government of Nova Scotia for having made available, free from encumbrances, these scenic lands which will henceforward be dedicated to the people of Canada. Both this government and the government of Nova Scotia have proceeded as expeditiously as possible to settle the final details of the arrangements. We hope for a conclusion in the early months of this fall so that this important project can be placed in motion.
Hon. George C. Nowlan (Digby-Annapolis-
Kings): Mr. Speaker, I am sure the house will have been interested in the announcement just made by the minister, and that the members from Nova Scotia will have been delighted. He will understand, of course, from his reference to the name of Annapolis Royal that I have more than a mere academic interest in this matter. This is one of the decisions of the government of which I can fully approve. In fact this step may have been recommended by my colleague the former minister, and in that connection it adds to my interest.
This will be a great addition to the tourist industry of Nova Scotia. The selection is one which, sited as it is in an area in the southwestern part of the province, will have a great impact on various constituencies represented here, and one which the government of Nova Scotia have fully approved and recommended.
I commend the government for having proceeded in this way by bringing the proposal forward as soon as possible.


['1. In 1962 and 1963 in lake Superior, the experimental area, the number of adult marine lampreys was reduced by at least 80 per cent. With this reduction in numbers, wounding of lake trout has dropped, their availability-catch per given yardage of net-has increased and larger trout are appearing in the catches.\n2. The program is being carried out in accordance with the terms of the great lakes fishery convention between Canada and the United States. This convention remains in force until October 1965. The convention provides for a joint review in the eighth year of the activities of the commission appointed pursuant thereto to determine the desirability of continuing, modifying or terminating this convention. This review will be completed later this year.']
The following questions are being answered today: 472, 813, 837, 858, 916,
28902-5-163
Questions
925, 926, 936, 948, 951, 953, 961, 978, 980, 981, 984, 992, 993, 1026, 1029, 1030, 1033, 1037, 1038 and 1041.
I wonder if the following questions could be made orders for returns: 437, 816 and 950.
The following are additional questions for which returns are being tabled immediately: 869, 934, 937, 938, 939, 940, 941.
Would you please call starred questions nos. 912, 932, 955, 1042? The remaining questions stand.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)


1.	How has the federal shipbuilding subsidy worked, by year, in providing more ships and employment, in terms of scale of subsidy, scale of private spending to get subsidy, type and size of vessel constructed, place of construction and estimated man-days employment?
2.	Has the maritime commission noted a trend to take less advantage of the subsidy and a preference of shipowners to buy old ships from foreign owners and, if so, what explanation does the commission have for this trend, with comments on what part the shipbuilding subsidy may play in this matter?
3.	Has the commission under consideration any recommendations to the government regarding the subsidy or its legislative basis and, if so, when does it estimate these considerations will be completed?


1. The following is a summary of vessels built and delivered and subsidy paid under the ship construction assistance regulations for the fiscal year 1961-62 and the fiscal year 1962-63: -
Fiscal Year 1961-1962
	Total	Subsidy
	Construction	Paid
	(in	(in
Area	dollars)	dollars)West coast	929,738	371,895Fiscal Year	' 1962-1963	Area	Total	SubsidyConstruction	PaidWest coast St. Lawrence gulf to	17,863,090	6,951,235east coast St. Lawrence river	8,033,462	3,315,136and interior	24,846,283	6,083,725Totals 1962-63 Types of Vessel	50,742,835 :	16,350,096
Of a total of 98 vessels built and delivered during fiscal year 1962-63, there were 12 fishing vessels other than trawlers, 6 trawlers, 19 tugs, 4 ferries, 4 tankers, 1 seaway bulk carrier, 5 coasters and 47 non-self propelled. During 1961-62, 10 non-self propelled vessels were built under the regulations.

Questions
With respect to employment, it is estimated that each one million dollars of ship construction provides 110 to 140 man years of work, taking into account both shipyard labour and labour in related industries.
2.	No.
3.	The Canadian maritime commission maintains a constant review of the subsidy program and of the ship construction and ship operating industries generally.


Is the government giving consideration to the standing offer by Great Britain of free trade with Canada?
Answer: 1. I am not aware of any standing offer by Great Britain of free trade with Canada. As I reported to the house on May 24 Britain, the United States, Canada and other GATT countries have agreed that comprehensive trade negotiations, to be conducted on a most favoured nation basis, are to begin in May 1964.
(Translation):
AIR TERMINALS, ROUYN AND VAL d'OR, QUE.

Question No. 837-Mr. Caoueile:
Has the government received any representations for the construction of air terminals at Rouyn and Val d'Or and, if so, what were the answers to these representations, and what action does the government intend to take in this matter?


Reprentation was made in September of last year to the department in regard to the provision of an air terminal building upon Val d'Or airport. The reply given to this representation made note that this airfield is a military establishment, and that any outlay of funds towards meeting civil aviation requirements upon the airfield must be undertaken in full cognizance of the overall objectives of the Department of National Defence and the Department of Transport. It was further noted that discussions were underway between the two departments in an examination of development planning of the civil aviation area.
The discussions on this matter between the Department of National Defence and the Department of Transport are continuing, and upon resolution, will leave the way clear to allow the planning and programming of new air terminal facilities.
There has been no representation received regarding air terminal requirements upon Rouyn airport.
(Text):
investment in price supported commodities


What is the total of federal investments in price-supported commodities?


At the close of the last fiscal year of March 31, 1963, the total of the federal investments in price supported commodities administered by the Department of Agriculture was one hundred and forty million, seven hundred and six thousand three hundred and eight dollars and sixty eight cents; by the Department of Fisheries, nil.


1.	Who recommended the parole of Mr. Leopold Dion of Pont Rouge, Quebec, sentenced to life imprisonment in 1940?
2.	What were the reasons given in support of this parole?
3.	At the end of 1962 or the beginning of 1963, who recommended a new parole for the same man?
4.	What were the reasons advanced in support of this parole?
5.	Will a general investigation be made of the national parole board?


As to questions 1, 2, 3 and 4 I must reply that it is not the policy to disclose information contained in parole files because of the confidential nature thereof. In order that the national parole board may receive as complete information as possible, both good and bad, from all possible sources, the policy is to regard all information and representations contained in such files as confidential. Nor is it the policy for the board to disclose the specific grounds of parole in an individual case.
In order, however, that hon. members may fully understand the situation, I should like to add the following.
Under the terms of the Parole Act the board, with exceptions which are not relevant here, "has exclusive jurisdiction and absolute discretion to grant, refuse to grant or revoke parole" (section 5). The act also provides that the board shall, at the times prescribed by the regulations, review the case of every inmate of a penitentiary serving a sentence of two years or more, "whether or not an application has been made by or on behalf of the inmate" (section 6). The regulations provide-as far as present purposes are concerned-that, in the case of an inmate serving a sentence of two years or more, the board shall review the case at least every two years.
Review of such cases by the board is therefore not dependant upon any representations being made to the board and any such representations, whether emanating from the inmate or his friends, are taken merely as indicating an active interest on his part in obtaining a parole.
Coming now to question No. 5 the answer is that no intention has been formed to direct a general investigation of the national parole board. I need hardly say with what horror

we all regard the deaths of the four boys in Quebec city, to which the question obviously relates, or what profound sympathy we feel for their families. I intend, however, to await the outcome of the police investigation and the inquests, and any subsequent court proceedings, before making any further comment on this tragic case, except to say that I made a point of examining the files of the national parole board and, whatever the merits of the decision to grant parole in this case, I find, as I had anticipated, that the case was considered painstakingly and in complete objectivity by the board.


Is the grant of $100,000 to provide for additional services to Indians of British Columbia earmarked for special purposes and, if so, what are those purposes?


Yes. The promotion of agriculture and irrigation, as well as other programs designed to promote the economy of the Indians of British Columbia such as fishing, logging, hunting and trapping.
Since 1959 an Indian advisory committee, comprising three members selected by the Indians themselves and representative of the Indians of the coastal, northern and mainland portions of the province, has been advising and assisting the Indian commissioner for British Columbia in the planning and allocation of funds granted for the purpose.
(Translation):


1.	What was the average yield on ninety day government of Canada treasury bills for the period between July 3 and July 10?
2.	Was the average yield higher than it was during the previous corresponding period?
3.	What was the yield on 4 per cent government bonds due May 1964 during the period between July 3 and July 10?
4.	Was this an increase over the previous corresponding period?
5.	Has there been a general rise in interest rates during this period and, if so, (a) what is the reason for such a rise (b) is the government and/or the Bank of Canada taking any measures to stem any such rise in interest rates?


1 and 2. The average yield on 91 day government of Canada treasury bills sold by auction at recent weekly tenders has been as follows:
July 11, 3.39 per cent per annum; July 4, 3.26 per cent per annum; June 27, 3.24 per cent per annum.
3 and 4. The yield on 4 per cent government of Canada bonds due May 1, 1964 on the basis of closing Wednesday mid-market quotations in recent weeks has been as follows:
28902-5-1631
Questions
July 10, 3.83 per cent per annum; July 3, 3.53 per cent per annum; June 26, 3.60 per cent per annum.
5. Market yields on government of Canada securities rose generally during the period between July 3 and July 10. Because of the variety and constantly changing character of influences operating in the market it is not possible to state precisely the reason or reasons for any given change in prices. The Bank of Canada's holdings of government of Canada securities increased by $28.4 million in the week ending July 10, and net purchases of such securities by the bank which had not yet been delivered to it amounted to $60.9 million on July 10 as compared with $1.0 million on July 3; these figures are taken from the "Weekly Financial Statistics" release published by the Bank of Canada.


Is Mr. Gilbert Ayers employed by the Canadian National Railways and, if so (a) what is his position (b) when was he appointed (c) when does his term of appointment expire and (d) what is his annual salary?


No. A Mr. Gilbert Ernest Ayers, Lachute Mills, Quebec, was appointed a director of the Canadian National Railway company for a term of three years, effective October 1, 1961, at a salary of $5,000 per annum, by Order in Council P.C. 19611382 of September 27, 1961.
(Text):


1.	What is the total of cash assets in the consolidated revenue fund?
2.	What is the amount of "bank money" or of the credit created or issued by the chartered banks since 1954?


1. As of July 15 $565,401,180.22.
2. The chartered bank component of "Total currency outside banks and chartered bank deposits" which is usually used to measure the "total money supply" amounted to $8,856 million at the end of 1954 and $14,104 million at July 3, 1963.
These figures are published regularly by the Bank of Canada in its "Weekly Financial Statistics" and in its monthly "Statistical Summary".


For the taxation year 1957-58 and subsequent taxation years, what percentage of total personal

Questions
Income tax paid was paid by the residents of Metropolitan Montreal, Toronto, Vancouver and
Winnipeg?


The percentages of personal income tax and old age security tax assessed on residents of Montreal, Toronto, Vancouver
id Winnipeg for the years 1957 to				I960 are
; follows:				
	Taxation Year			
1957	1958	1959	1960%	%	%	%Montreal	14.07	13.69	13.24	13.50Toronto	18.98	20.06	18.30	18.59Vancouver	6.65	6.53	6.49	6.11Winnipeg	3.34	3.63	3.77	3.66SUMMERSIDE, P.E.I. LOBSTER	CARNIVAL	MILITARY	BANDS


1.	Has the Department of National Defence received requests for military bands to be present at the Summerside lobster carnival, July 15 to July 20, 1963, and, if so, what military bands have been requested?
2.	What military bands have been made available for this purpose?
Answer: 1. Yes, but no specific bands were requested.
2. The Canadian army and Royal Canadian Air Force bands were already committed for the dates involved, and although the Royal Canadian Navy band from H.M.C.S. Stadacona could have been made available for the 15 and 16 July provided the sponsor assumed the travelling cost involved, the sponsor declined this offer. However, arrangements were made for the Summerside voluntary brass reed band to participate in two parades.


1.	How many original motion pictures were produced by the national film board in each of the years 1957-58, 1958-59, 1959-60, 1960-61, and 1961-62?
2.	In the same years, how many original motion pictures did the national film board contract out to private Canadian film production companies?
3.	Is it the purpose of the national film board, among other things "to promote the production and distribution of films designed to interpret Canada to Canadians and to other nations" and, if so, does the government intend to place a more reasonable proportion of government film production in the hands of private companies?


1. 1957-58,	129; 1958-59,
104; 1959-60, 95;	1960-61, 83;	1961-62, 93.
		Revisions,
2. Originals		versions, etc,
1957-58	0	331958-59	1	51959-60	1	81960-61	1	31961-62	3	4
3. The board was established "to initiate and promote the production and distribution of films in the national interest-films designed to interpret Canada to Canadians and to other nations". The policy of the national film board is to operate at a level which permits economic utilization of its existing facilities. The board tenders out production work whenever the volume or schedule of production places a project outside the normal operating capacity of the board. The royal commission on government organization agreed with this policy as may be seen by its recommendation: "The national film board stabilize its film making at a level to provide economic utilization of present facilities".
(Translation) :


Is it the intention of the Department of Transport to urge Canadian railway companies to use daylight saving time instead of standard time in those areas where there is a difference between the two?


This would be a matter for consideration by the Railway Association of Canada and the hon. member's inquiry will be drawn to the attention of the association.


1.	Is the Department of Public Works paying part of the cost of the new bridge between the city of Quebec and the south shore and, if so, what part of the cost is it paying?
2.	Does the Minister of Public Works intend to follow the recommendation of the mayor of Levis with regard to the site for the bridge?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is
as follows:
1.	No.
2.	Since this is a provincial project, the federal government has nothing to do whatsoever with the selection of the site.
(Text) :


What is the approximate or estimated effect, with regard to blast, burn, and immediate radioactive fall-out, of the following categories of H-bombs when exploded at 40,000 feet, 60,000 feet, 80,000 feet and 100,000 feet (a) 1 megaton (b) 2 megaton (c) 5 megaton (d) 10 megaton (e) 20 megaton (f) 100 megaton?
Answer: Blast: Using as a criterion the bodily removal of exterior wall panels of a frame house, which occurs at overpressure of 2 pounds per square inch, and which is classified as severe damage, the following are the distances from a point on the ground directly below the burst at which this severe damage will occur.

Height of
Burst-ft. 40,000 Yield of Weapon	60,000	80,000	100,000MT	Miles	Miles	Miles	Miles1	*	[DOT]	*	*2	1
5	7

10	11	6	*	*20	17	12	6	*100	35	35	25	20indicates that the overpressure ground does not reach 2 p.s.i.	on the
Immediate fall-out: For all the yields and heights specified, immediate radioactive fallout is negligible, because the fireball does not touch the ground, and the burst takes place above the regions of the atmosphere in which our weather is formed. For a 100MT explosion, there will be very little immediate fall-out for all heights above 18,000 feet.
Thermal radiation: Using as a criterion 8 calories per square centimeter, at which level human skin will suffer injury corresponding to severe sunburn with blistering, and light kindling materials will ignite, the following are the distances from a point on the ground directly below the burst at which this damage or injury will occur.
Height of
Burst- Yield of	[DOT]ft. 40,000 weapon	60,000	80,000	100,000MT	Miles	Miles	Miles	Miles1	32	8	2	[DOT]	*5	14	13	10	*10	20	20	20	2220	28	28	28	27100	63	63	64	64
^indicates that 8 cals per square centimeter is not reached on the ground.


1.	Have repairs been completed to the breakwater at West Advocate, Nova Scotia?
2.	What is the estimated total cost of these repairs?


1. No, the work is about 70 per cent finished. It is expected to complete it later this summer.
2. $10,000.
Questions


Are plans going forward on the construction of a new federal building in Amherst to replace the old federal building, and when is it expected that tenders will be called for this facility?


The department is proceeding with studies to determine the exact nature of the accommodation required at Amherst and it is expected that new construction will be required probably in the 1965-66 fiscal year. However it has not been decided yet whether to erect a new building or to add to the existing building, known as the new federal building, or to do both.


Is an extension planned to the new federal building in Amherst?


See answer to question No. 980.


1.	Have representations been received for the improvement of wharfage facilities at Joggins, Nova Scotia?
2.	What are the names of individuals, associations, or concerns who have made representations for the improvement of these facilities?
3.	What action does the government plan to take, in this regard?


1. Yes.
2.	From Robert C. Coates, M.P. (Cumberland) who also forwarded copies of representations from Sifto salt division of Domtar Chemicals Ltd. and Enamel and Heating Products Ltd.
3.	No decision has yet been reached.


What are the names of the projects in Alberta for which assistance has been asked, and granted, under ARDA by the federal government, and what is the total amount of assistance required for these projects?


Three projects have been approved in the province of Alberta under the Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Act. The projects, the total cost of each, and the amount of federal assistance is as follows:
Questions

Project
To develop marginal lands as the Seven Persons irrigated grazing reserve near
Medicine Hat	
To develop marginal lands as the Wanham
grazing reserve near Wanham	
To develop a soil capability inventory of agricultural lands in Alberta


North and Victoria):
1.	Is the government prepared to arrange for the transfer of the replica of the Silver Dart which was displayed at the national aviation museum up until approximately three weeks ago (now stored in Hull, Quebec) to Cape Breton for permanent display?
2.	Is the government prepared to arrange for the transfer of any other replica of the Silver Dart for the above purpose?
Answer: The replica is a part of the collection of the national aviation museum housed in the national capital area. It has been donated to the national collection of aircraft. We know of no museum in Cape Breton, including the Alexander Graham Bell museum, which could house such a full scale replica on a permanent basis.
2. See 1.


1.	Has the lamprey control program of the federal government been successful?
2.	How far north in Canada have lampreys been observed?
3.	Have lampreys infested any new areas in the past five years?
Answer: 1. From the information presently available a good degree of success is indicated. In 1962 and 1963 in lake Superior, the experimental area, the number of adult marine lampreys was reduced by at least 80 per cent.
2.	There are several species of lamprey one of which appears in Arctic waters. The sea lamprey-the great lakes predator-is found in waters tributary to the Atlantic ocean ranging from southern Labrador to Chesapeake bay.
3.	They have appeared in some streams tributary to lake Superior where they were not found five years ago. This is attributed to control measures in their original streams. While they may exist unnoticed in some other areas there has been no indication of major expansion into new areas.

Total	Federal
Cost	Assistance
$23,500	$11,750
14,000	7,000
18,500	18,500
$56,000	$37,250


Is it the intention of the federal government to provide a guide service to assist visitors during the national centennial celebration similar to that supplied at the world's fair in Brussels and, if so (a) how many guides does the government intend to train (b) what will be the age limit of these guides and (c) is it the intention of the government to provide special uniforms and training for this purpose?


I am informed by the national centennial administration that apart from meeting the needs which may occur in connection with specific projects, there is no intention at the moment of providing a guide service for visitors during the national centennial celebration.
The national centennial administration, however, does not speak for the Canadian World Exhibition Corporation.


1.	Is it the intention of the Department of Agriculture to establish a brucellosis-free area in the district of Timiskaming and, if so (a) when is it expected that the tests will be undertaken, and
(b)	at what date is it expected they can be completed?
2.	Is it the intention of the department to use federal veterinarians, or is it anticipated that local veterinarians can provide this service?


1. It is the intention of the Department of Agriculture to establish a brucellosis-free area in the district of Timiskaming.
(a)	It is expected this area test will commence early in 1964.
(b)	The date of completion cannot accurately be predicted as progress will be dependant on the staff available and the extent to which private veterinary practitioners participate.
2. It is the intention of the Department of Agriculture to use some federal veterinarians, but all local veterinarians will be afforded the opportunity to participate in the program and will be offered employment by the department as casual veterinarians.


Has the emergency measures organization explored the possibility of providing fall-out shelters for those citizens resident in the expected point of contact north of the Bomarc missile base at North Bay and, if so, have the possibilities of fallout shelters using the abandoned mines at Cobalt and Kirkland Lake been assessed, and what mines, if any, have been found suitable for this use?


As has been stated previously, there is no government program to build shelters for the public; however, various possible approaches are under study. In this context, the possible use of mines will be considered.
It will be recalled that, in 1962, the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys conducted, on behalf of the emergency measures organization, a survey of all active mines and some inactive mines of the adit type which were readily accessible and which might serve as fall-out shelters. The actual development of such mines as fall-out shelters would depend on each being studied separately to determine what additional features would be required to provide a safer environment. These features might include lighting, ventilation and, in some instances, pumping equipment. The survey did reveal that, at Cobalt and Kirkland Lake, there were underground workings which, if suitably
Questions
equipped, could serve as fall-out shelters for the population of these two communities.
As much of the information which was provided by mine owners was on a confidential basis, it is not possible at this time to name these mines.


1.	Has a study been completed of the proposals referred to under the answer by the Minister of Trade and Commerce to question number 424 and. if not, when is a decision expected?
2.	Has the extent of foreign ownership among any of the proposing companies yet been determined and, if not, when is this information expected to be available?


1. Completion of the study is expected in the near future.
2. The extent of foreign ownership, if any, of any company whose proposal is accepted will be made known at the time of the announcement of the decision.


1.	What is the estimated production and consumption, by months, of dairy butter in dairy years (a) May 1, 1957 to May 1, 1963 (b) months since May 1, 1963 for which figures are available?
2.	What was the surplus of butter and butter oil as of May 1, 1957 and each May 1 in succeeding years to May 1, 1963?
Answer: 1 and 2. See attached statement.
1. (a) and (b) Estimated Production and Consumption of Dairy (Farm-Made) Butter, by months, May 1957 to May 1963 inclusive.
Dairy Years				
1957-58	1958-59	1959-60 1960-61 1961-62	1962-63	1963-64'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 bl.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.May	
1,148	1,074	917	829	763	663	454June	
1,202	1,092	964	842	735	670	July	
1,160	1,045	948	816	735	581	August	
1,142	1,027	938	802	718	570	September	
1,144	1,014	951	844	757	533	October	
1,127	1,046	947	849	752	526	November	
1,062	987	845	760	653	471	December	
904	908	810	688	583	503	January	
869	788	757	635	542	486	February	
799	769	738	590	530	361	March	
898	790	815	658	570	384	April	
1,018	865	787	705	592	416	2. Stocks of butter and	butter oil, May 1, 1957 to 1963.	May 1,	May 1,	May 1,	May 1,	May 1,	May 1,	May 1,1957	1958	1959	I960	1961	1962	1963'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.	'000 lb.Butter	
36,927	35,416	62,375	80,599	85,602	81,860	101,480Butter oil	
-	-	-	104	24,889	82,202	81,818
Orders for Returns


North and Victoria):
What progress is being made in the negotiations between the Department of Public Works and owners of the properties concerned regarding an access road to the ballast grounds at North Sydney, Nova Scotia, for the purpose of eliminating the inconvenience caused to fishermen?


The department has received an offer to sell property that would provide access to the ballast grounds and an independent appraisal of the fair market value of the land is now being made. Negotiations will continue when the results of the appraisal have been received.


1.	What success has been achieved by the government program for the extermination of lamprey in the great lakes?
2.	Does the federal government intend to continue this program and, if so, could the Minister of Fisheries bring the house up to date on its present operation?


1. In 1962 and 1963 in lake Superior, the experimental area, the number of adult marine lampreys was reduced by at least 80 per cent. With this reduction in numbers, wounding of lake trout has dropped, their availability-catch per given yardage of net-has increased and larger trout are appearing in the catches.
2. The program is being carried out in accordance with the terms of the great lakes fishery convention between Canada and the United States. This convention remains in force until October 1965. The convention provides for a joint review in the eighth year of the activities of the commission appointed pursuant thereto to determine the desirability of continuing, modifying or terminating this convention. This review will be completed later this year.


1.	(a) What are the amounts paid by the government of Canada to the province of Saskatchewan in conditional grants in each of the years 1953-1962 inclusive (b) what were the specific programs and what was the amount of expenditure under each
(c)	what was the total amount for the period 1953-1957 inclusive (d) what was the total amount for the period 1958-1962 inclusive?
2.	(a) What were the amounts paid by the government of Canada to the province of Saskatchewan in unconditional grants in each of the years 19531962 inclusive (b) what was the total amount for the period 1953-1957 inclusive (c) what was the total amount for the period 1958-1962 inclusive?

3.	(a) What were the amounts of federal capital
expenditures and grants made to the city of Regina in each of the years 1953-1957 inclusive (b) for what purpose, and under what program, and in what amounts were expenditures under (a) made (c) what were the amounts of federal capital expenditures and grants made to the city of Regina in each of the years 1958-1962 inclusive (d) for what purpose, and under what program, and in what amounts were expenditures under (c) made?


1.	Has the Minister of Finance received any protests and/or representations in regard to the withdrawal of the exemption of the 11 per cent sales tax in regard to building materials and production equipment and machinery and, if so, what is the number of persons, associations, corporations or other bodies that have voiced such protests or made such representations, giving in each case their names or description?
2.	Have such persons, asso