Mr. Edmund T. Asselin (Noire Dame de Grace) presented the first report of the standing committee on banking and commerce, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
(Text):
On the order:
Motions-The Prime Minister:
That commencing on Friday, July 5th, and thereafter during the month of July, in addition to the hours of sitting now provided for in standing orders 2 and 6, the house shall also sit from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Fridays; and from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and 2.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays: and
That on Saturdays, after the reading of prayers, the order "house again in committee of supply" shall be forthwith read and thereupon, the procedure now provided for in standing order 56(1) shall apply.
Mr. Speaker, I would ask permission of the house to withdraw this motion in view of the date. My understanding is that it will be put on the order paper again.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.
Order discharged and motion withdrawn.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. In view of the fact that his announcement of the probable elimination of the frigate program will deal a disastrous blow to employment in Canadian shipyards, can he assure the house that before buying any submarines outside the country he will meet the representatives of the shipyards and their labour unions 28902-5-1191
to investigate the possibility and the advantages for Canada of having these submarines built in Canada by Canadians with Canadian taxpayers' money?


Mr. Speaker, I did not say that the program would be cancelled. I said it was under review before proceeding, and that is the case. I can assure the hon. member and other members of the house that my concern is primarily that the armed forces of Canada will have the very best equipment and the highest operational capacity to carry out those tasks that are assigned to them. In addition, along with other members of the government I am very mindful of the needs with regard to employment and industry in this country, and all these factors are taken into consideration in the course of the review.


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the minister that all members of the house are very conscious of the same thing. However, the minister has been faced with these two problems now for over two months and I am quite sure that the employees are awaiting a decision. Can he tell us when a decision is going to be made?


I cannot say specifically, Mr. Speaker, but the decision will be made just as soon as it can be done without, at the same time, prejudging or not allowing sufficient time to receive all the evidence on both sides of the argument.


May I ask a supplementary question of the Acting Prime Minister. Has he received a telegram dated July 3 from Mr. Rene Barras, secretary of the Lauzon shipyard workers union, protesting against the statement of the Minister of National Defence to the defence committee on June 27 that the general purpose frigate program would be carefully reviewed before being proceeded with? I should like to ask the Acting Prime Minister if he would give some assurance to the house that if any cutback in defence shipbuilding is made it will be compensated for by the building of ships for the transportation of Canadian goods overseas.


This is in effect the same question which was asked of the Minister of National Defence, but I am grateful none the less to

Inquiries of the Ministry the hon. member for giving me notice of the question. I think I should advise the hon. member that I believe the hon. member for Levis has made representations along these lines to the Minister of National Defence.
I am not aware of the telegram, but I cannot add anything to what has been said by the minister, who has stated that the program is under review. In so far as the last part of the question is concerned, it is hypothetical and until a determination of the question has been made I do not believe it is proper to answer the last part of the question.


May I ask a supplementary question of either the Acting Prime Minister or the Minister of National Defence. Will the decision of the government await also the recommendation of the defence committee?


Mr. Speaker, I have no control over the defence committee. I have no idea how long their deliberations will take, nor when they will be in a position to advise the government. I do have, under our constitution, the responsibility for making a recommendation to the government, and I will do that at the proper time.


Will the Minister of National Defence refer this problem to the special committee on defence for their recommendation?


No, Mr. Speaker, I think the committee will discuss the problem at considerable length, and their views will be taken into consideration along with other representations that have been received.


Will that be before or after the decision?
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Minister of Public Works who is responsible for the world fair a question. Can the minister assure the house that the 1967 world fair will take place in Montreal, and not elsewhere-in Ottawa, for instance-following a certain pressure which is now being applied?


Mr. Speaker, I don't know exactly what pressure the hon. member is alluding to, but I want to tell him this. We have now to determine the security work to be carried out in respect of the construction of the St. Helen island and Notre Dame island project.
[Mr. Chevrier.)

There are some differences of opinion with regard to this security work between engineers of the city of Montreal and those of the various federal departments. This is a problem which remains to be settled and which will form the basis of the discussion we will have this afternoon with Mayor Drapeau in Ottawa.


I have a supplementary question to ask the minister, Mr. Speaker. I did ask the minister whether it was certain that the world fair will take place in Montreal, or not. That is what we want to know.
(Text):


Order. The hon. member knows that supplementary question is out of order.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question on the same subject.
(Translation):
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. Will the official who said that Mr. Saulnier's statements were untrue and that he was only resorting to blackmail be present this afternoon at the meeting held at the minister's request?


Mr. Speaker, I have no idea what the hon. member is talking about. The only thing that I can say is that I did not make any comment on Mr. Saulnier's statements, but I am one of those who have left the door open to negotiation, in order to arrive at a satisfactory solution.


Has the minister read Mr. Lazarus' article in the Montreal Star reporting word for word a talk he had with one of those officials? If so, could he not silence that official?


Mr. Speaker, 1 read the article referred to by the hon. member. I think it is valueless, because no name is mentioned.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does the Minister of Public Works-
(Text):


Order, please. I think this is taking on the nature of a debate, and there is no useful purpose in continuing this line of questioning.


On a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker, I suggest that my question is not related in the way which Your Honour has just suggested. My question is by way of clarification of the first answer given by the

Minister of Public Works. I believe I have the right to ask the question, and I do not believe the Chair can rule me out before hearing the sense and knowing the direction of my question. My question is this. Is the Minister of Public Works aware that the city of Montreal will refuse to accept any other site than the island of Montreal for the world fair?


That is giving information.


I regret there is no point of privilege.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport which I hope will be within the ambit of the ruling you made a few minutes ago. Can the minister say if the provisions laid down in the Navigable Waters Protection Act or other statutes coming within his department have been met so that ratification of the choice of St. Helen island as the site of the world fair can be made forthwith.


Mr. Speaker, the provisions of the act are being respected. It is a public act, and I presume that its provisions are being followed by the government.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Public Works. My question is short but urgent, and you will no doubt allow it, because I believe it is in order.
Could the Minister of Public Works tell the house whether he will inform us of the decision to be taken this afternoon concerning the Canadian world exhibition before making a statement to the press?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Public Works, as well as all other ministers of the government, make it a practice to advise the house before informing the press.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries. It is based on an article in the June edition of Western Fisheries to the effect that Dr. Kask, chairman of the fisheries research board of Canada, is now director of investigations for the interAmerican tropical tuna commission. Has Dr.
Inquiries of the Ministry Kask resigned his position as chairman of the fisheries research board of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, an official announcement to that effect was made yesterday.


On the orders of the day:
Before the orders of the day are called I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs and ask him whether, in view of reports that Russian fishing trawlers have been sighted within the 12 mile limit off the Pacific islands, it is the intention of the government to invite the Soviet union to be a party to the negotiations concerning the north Pacific fishing treaty?


I do not see any connection between the hon. gentleman's original statement and his conclusion. However, this matter is being reviewed.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. I ask this question on behalf of the anti paddy Sherman trust on the Columbia river. In view of the interest and concern of a number of B.C. engineers in the possible disastrous effects of slides which the high Arrow dam might cause when the water level submerges layers of clay beneath various communities, and the study being given to this question by the same engineers, have the wizards of the water resources branch directed the minister's attention to this possibility?


Order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for having given me prior notice of his question. I think I have already stated to the house that those engineers who are presently working on this job are agencies of the province of British Columbia, and naturally the reports they might make are the property of that province. I think at this time particularly it would be highly improper for me to make any comment upon the validity or otherwise of those reports, or indeed to commend their

Inquiries of the Ministry validity to the house. I am quite certain, in reference to our own officers, that at the proper time and in the proper circumstances they will be quite competent to bring advice to a committee of the House of Commons, and indeed to the government, respecting the safety and feasibility of this project and others in the general scheme.


A supplemental question, Mr. Speaker. Will these engineers have an opportunity to present their evidence before the external affairs committee, if such an event should occur?


I would think in that circumstance, Mr. Speaker, my reply would be that this would naturally be a matter for decision by the committee. I would rather expect that the committee would be calling some engineers, but I should think that when the treaty provisions go before the committee, the committee is master of its own house.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. In view of the desperate situation existing at Bell island, Conception bay, Newfoundland, due to the curtailment of mine operations there, will the minister say what plans he has in mind to deal with this situation?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for giving me notice of his question.


Oh, oh.


In reply I wish to say-


A staged question.


I would like to say, in reply to the question bearing on a very serious matter affecting many hundreds of unemployed on Bell island, that following an earlier exchange of correspondence with the premier of Newfoundland proposals for developing suitable training and work programs to assist the provincial authorities in meeting the existing situation are being sent to Premier Smallwood. These proposals include training classes at the new trade school in Bell island and training on the job projects where a combination of work experience and training is more suitable.
The proposals being made incorporate the increased levels of federal contribution which would result from the proposed amendments to the Technical and Vocational Training Assistance Act and the other programs which
[Mr. Laing.)
I outlined to the house on June 10 and which are now before the house.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I would ask the Minister of Labour whether this is also the answer to the question I asked him on this matter on May 20.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman may take it as an answer to his question, which his own alertness could have made available to him some time earlier.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister.
Since Mr. Robert Burnside, director of the seaway authority, has stated before the royal commission on pilotage that the seaway authorities had asked the authorities in Ottawa that the French language be banned in pilotage manoeuvring, could the Acting Prime Minister assure the house that the government will refuse to comply with such a request?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of the statement referred to by the hon. member. Nevertheless, I must say that the pilotage commission comes under the jurisdiction of my colleague, the Minister of Transport (Mr. Mcllraith). I will however make inquiries as to that statement.


Will you give me an answer later?
(Text) :


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask, in French, a very important question of the Minister of Transport.
(Translation):
Is it true that the Quebec government has definitely given up the idea of buying the Soulanges canal and, if so, for what reason, since an agreement had been entered into under the previous government?
(Text):


Order. It seems to me that the hon. member should recognize that though

the question is very important and very interesting, there is no desperate urgency about it. The matter has been under consideration for many months.


I respect your ruling, Mr. Speaker, but I think this is a very important matter and that-


There is no question about the propriety of asking a question of this nature, but it should be placed on the order paper.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State.
On June 24 last, I said in this house that Canada did not have a national flag. Since that date, I received many letters suggesting that I was mistaken. Now, here is my question. Could the Secretary of State inform me whether in fact Canada actually has or has not a national flag?
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. gentleman should look at an order in council passed on September 5, 1945, which he could get from the privy council office. I have no more recent information to give him.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question. I think that order in council provides that the red ensign is Canada's national flag. Is the Secretary of State suggesting that this order in council provides for a national flag and that it is the red ensign?
(Text):


The Secretary of State of Canada, no more than any other citizen, has the right to decide what the national flag of Canada is. This is a matter, I would judge, for the parliament of Canada and I would not presume to express any opinion at all on that question. I believe the most recent official document is the one I mentioned a few moments ago, an order in council passed on September 5, 1945, which can be procured from the privy council office at no cost to any citizen.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a supplementary question because I think the hon. Secretary of State did not answer my question. My question was as
Inquiries of the Ministry follows. Does that order in council prescribe that the red ensign is our national flag and is that the opinion of the Secretary of State? (Text):


I should like to point out to the hon. gentleman that the order in council is available in both official languages, and I am sure the hon. gentleman can read both of them just as well as I can.
(Translation):


Mr. Speaker, I think there is there-
(Text):


Order, please. I must point out, first of all, that there is no immediate urgency to this question. Second, the discussion is taking on the form of a debate. May I remind hon. members once more that according to our standing orders the general principles to be applied when asking questions of this kind on orders of the day are very simple. No argument should be advanced, no opinion given. The facts should be concisely stated and the matter should be one of urgent public importance requiring immediate attention. By virtue of those general principles I am sure we can make very fast progress if all hon. members abide by the regulations of the house.
(Translation):


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker.
(Text):


If it is on the same matter I must declare the debate closed on that particular point.
(Translation) :


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State.
As the hon. gentleman has just informed us that we already have a national flag, is the national flag that has been promised during the last election campaign going to be a second one?
(Text):


Order, please. There is no urgency in this question.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Labour. Has his attention been drawn to the dispute between the Canadian National Railways and the brotherhood of railway trainmen regarding the question of

Inquiries of the Ministry the run-through on two subdivisions in western Canada? Canadian National Railways has in this case altered the conditions of employment unilaterally during the lifetime of an existing agreement which has not yet expired. What steps does the minister propose to take to settle this dispute?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to tell the hon. member with regard to this dispute that this particular phase of the problem has not been brought to my attention. I will be glad to look into it and advise him later as to what is the situation, and whether any action can be taken by the Department of Labour.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. Has he yet been able to ascertain at what time on Monday and under what order the Minister of Finance will give his budgetary statement?


I think perhaps the Secretary of State, who is the house leader, might give the house some information on that matter.


Mr. Speaker, at six o'clock today I had intended asking the house whether an order could be made to permit the house to revert to motions at 8 p.m. on Monday precisely for the purpose that the hon. gentleman has questioned me about. If it would be agreeable to the house to have that order made right now it would perhaps save a little time and be of convenience to the house generally. At 8 p.m. on Monday we would revert to motions in order that a statement might be made from the treasury benches, and it would be clearly understood, of course, that the usual comments by spokesmen from each of the parties represented in the house could be made at the same time.


This is a baby budget, is it?


Does this meet with the approval of the house?


Agreed.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of

Forestry. While answering a question of mine on June 24 the minister indicated to me that he intended to go west later for the purpose of discussing with the forestry industry matters referred to in certain telegrams concerning the harmful effect of the 11 per cent sales tax on the lumbering industry. Would the minister care to make a statement as to his findings concerning the effect of the 11 per cent tax on lumber production and sales?


Mr. Speaker, I do not say that I would care to make a statement. 1 have had meetings with the representatives of the industry, and I thought they were very constructive and helpful.


I have a further question to ask the Minister of Forestry. The hon. gentleman stated in reply to the original question that he had received telegrams. Will the minister be making a statement to the house with regard to the telegrams he received and the discussions he has had with the industry in British Columbia?


No.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Berthier-Maskinonge-Delanaudiere (Mr. Paul) asked me a question concerning Canadian students who are now in Pakistan. Those students, 37 in number, are attending the fourteenth annual conference of the world university service association, which is being held in that country this year. That is the fourteenth conference of its kind organized by that association which has secured the support and close co-operation of every government and student organization in countries where it has been in operation, and it has received the same support again this year.
The Canadian delegation has been the target of criticisms expressed in rather violent terms in a pamphlet published by a group of Pakistani students. We have received no indication that our students have been subjected to any other form of attack or are in any kind of danger. Nevertheless, I have asked our high commissioner's office in Karachi, Pakistan, to send us a report and I shall make it a point to keep the house informed of any development which might cause some concern.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the President of the Privy Council.
In view of the statement made by Mr. Rene Levesque, which appears today in Le Devoir, to the effect that if the government in Ottawa does not change its present attitude it will become the real grave-digger of confederation, can the minister tell us if Ottawa intends to reverse its position in order to dispel Hon. Rene Levesque's fears?


Mr. Speaker, all I can say to my hon. friend is that the present government certainly does not intend to bury confederation; it will rather work towards improving it, in order to give it at last a new lease on life.


Mr. Speaker, could I ask a supplementary question? Could the minister tell the house whether he feels that Mr. Rene Levesque is a crypto-separatist, considering the statement he has made?


I think the hon. member can judge for himself.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact that the President of the Privy Council has just stated that he does not want the government to become the executioner of confederation, could he say what precise steps he will take to avoid that?
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources, based to a certain extent upon the controversy developing around biculturalism and bilingualism. My question relates to a national museum of Canada publication, bulletin 190, headed "Contributions to Anthropology, 1960". I wonder if the minister could undertake to have the various articles in this publication, which are now exclusively in French, translated into English for the benefit of the rest of us in this country.
Inquiries of the Ministry


I should be glad to take this question as notice, and see what can be done at once.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State. On June 27 the hon. gentlemen was asked a question concerning a dispute between the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and some of its employees. I wonder if the minister can tell us whether negotiations are going on at the present time, and whether they seem likely to be successful.


I do not think it is ever wise to anticipate in connection with these matters, but negotiations are proceeding and the latest information I have is that they seem to be proceeding very satisfactorily.


On the orders of the day:
The day before yesterday the hon. member for Swift Current-Maple Creek asked me a question about negotiations for the sale of grain to East Germany. During the past six years members of the Canadian wheat board or its officials have made many visits to East Germany to attempt to develop sales for Canadian wheat. The latest board visit to this market was made on May 9-10,
1963.	In addition, agents of the board have kept in constant contact with officials responsible for grain purchases by East Germany.
While none of this market development activity has yet resulted in actual sales, the board with the full support of this government is continuing in its attempt to develop sales in this potential market. As soon as positive results are obtained, hon. members will be so informed.


The Minister of Trade and Commerce has given us a report about negotiations in connection with wheat sales to East Germany. I wonder if he could inform the house when he expects to make a statement on the negotiations which have been going on with red China.


As soon as those negotiations are completed.

Supply-Trade and Commerce THE BUDGET


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. Has the hon. gentleman yet been able to obtain, as promised, a legal opinion on the validity or otherwise of the appointment of certain persons to carry out special services in the Department of Finance?
Hon. Lionel Chevrier (Acting Prime
Minister): I am sorry, the answer is no.


Can the minister say whether Mr. Stanley, Mr. O'Connell, and Mr. Conway are still connected with the Department of Finance?


I cannot answer that. That question should be directed to the Minister of Finance. I do not know what their present
position is.


He has not been here for two days.


Oh, oh.


I did not hear that.


For two days, on the orders of the day, the Minister of Finance has not been here to answer questions.


The Minister of Finance has other duties to perform. He was in the house the whole of the week before that and available to answer questions notwithstanding the fact that there had been several discussions on budgetary matters. I do not think there can be any complaint as far as his conduct is concerned.


the third reading of Bill C-74, respecting the department of industry.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Lamoureux in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND COMMERCE General administration-
1. Departmental administration including fees for membership in the international organizations listed in the details of the estimates and $25,000 for grants to promote industrial design, $5,288,800.


Mr. Chairman, I consider

it a definite privilege to be the first minister presenting his estimates for the approval of this committee. I feel, too, that a considerable responsibility rests upon me, a responsibility which I shall endeavour to discharge. I should also like to say a few words about certain aspects of the activities of the department, and about one such aspect in particular which I think is of considerable interest, namely Canada's policy with respect to the forthcoming round of trade negotiations.
For a number of years we have witnessed in Canada the paradoxical situation of high unemployment together with a large adverse balance of trade on current account. In other words we have been relying upon external resources even though productive capacities have remained unused here in Canada.
While economic activity in Canada has risen considerably in the past two years, the extent of this advance has not been sufficient to bring about a sustained betterment in the unemployment situation. Apart from the usual seasonal variations, the level of unemployment in Canada has changed little during the past 18 months despite an abnormally slow growth in the labour force. On the other hand, Canada's external balance is showing evidence of underlying improvement, and much of the expansion now under way in the economy is attributable to the strengthening trade situation.
A quite substantial improvement in the trade balance is now in sight for the current year. In 1963 to date merchandise exports are up by 8J per cent compared with the same period last year, whereas imports are down slightly. In the latest month for which figures are available there was actually a 5 per cent drop in imports notwithstanding the removal of the import surcharges. Tourist trade is also moving strongly in Canada's favour. As I recall the figures, two years ago we had an adverse balance on tourist account of something of the order of $160 million. In 1962 it was of the order of $50 million, and this year we are looking forward to an improvement such as will wipe out the adverse balance and I hope result in a positive balance on tourist account.
This strengthening in merchandise and tourist trade is, nevertheless, offset in part by adverse movements in certain invisible items including higher interest and dividend payments and rising outlays for various forms of business services. Thus in the last 12 months for which figures are available, namely the 12 month period ending March, 1963, Canada's deficit on all current transactions was still in the neighbourhood of $750 million.
A further substantial improvement in this position, which I hope and believe will come

about, will be necessary for Canada to achieve the external financial strength so basic to a sound and viable economy. A strong current balance position is essential not only to pay our way in the world and to head off the current rise in foreign indebtedness but also for the stimulus it gives to domestic activity. This means that we must strengthen our position in both home and foreign markets. Real and lasting progress in this direction will entail new initiatives on the part of Canadian producers, and it will also-this, I think, is of major importance to the members of the house-require careful attention to every facet of activity having a bearing upon the nation's economic performance.
The Department of Trade and Commerce is keenly aware of its responsibilities in this broad national endeavour. The department's role, as hon. members know, is essentially twofold in character. In the period of intensive international negotiations which lies ahead every effort will be made to improve the access to foreign markets for Canadian goods while retaining fair treatment for producers selling domestically. On the other hand, the promotional arm of the department will be striving in every practical way to help the Canadian businessman to take advantage of opportunities available in international markets.
When we consider trade relations in the rapidly changing world of today we are at once struck, it seems to me, by the need for Canada to respond appropriately to the basic shifts that are taking place in the world around us. Canada is, as hon. members know, a great trading nation. To maintain and improve our prosperity, our standard of living, we must maintain and improve our position as an international trader.
The development of the European economic community and of the European free trade area implies far reaching changes in trade relationships. The movement by the big three world traders, the United States, Britain and the European economic community, toward an extensive tariff negotiation next year has major implications for a country as dependent upon trade as Canada. We can expect keener competition at home and abroad in our efforts to maintain and expand markets for primary products and for secondary manufactures. We should set our sights on meeting this keener competition and on taking advantage of new opportunities and broader markets. I am confident that Canadian industry can respond to new opportunities to secure lower production costs by expanding export sales.
About one fifth of our gross national product is accounted for by exports of goods and services. We rank fourth as a world trader, but what we have to bear in mind is that even though we rank just behind the big
Supply-Trade and Commerce three we have a relatively small population and our share of world trade is only a small part of the total. What is big and vital for us may not seem of critical importance for our trading partners. It is the responsibility of Canada and particularly of the Canadian government in its external trade relations to ensure that our interests are not overlooked and that maximum opportunities are opened for the expansion of our trade. We must always strive to place our weight and influence on the side of the orderly growth of trade on the widest possible basis. We must move forward and help to shape the new conditions for world trade in order to improve our prospects and to avoid the dangers of the re-emergence of restrictionism and the stagnation which is involved in a circumscribed domestic market.
Because of the direction and character of our trade, the position and policies of the United States, Britain and the European community are of particular importance for us. But the world, of course, includes many other countries which are significant markets for our products. We have a large and growing trade with Japan, with other commonwealth countries, and in increasing interest in the market provided by many of what we call today the less developed countries which are spread throughout the world, many within the commonwealth and many outside. We must always be conscious of the need to raise the standard of living in these less developed countries and of the contribution these countries can make to the growth of world trade. I believe that one of the great opportunities which is presented to countries like Canada, rich countries, countries with the highest standard of living in the world, is to assist the less developed countries to achieve higher standards of living. This is not only a responsibility but also a great opportunity.
Our detailed work on ways and means of freeing and expanding world trade is being carried forward under the auspices of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in line with the conclusions of the meeting of ministers of trade of the GATT countries in May, on which I reported to the house on May 24 last. At that time I indicated that the purpose of the ministerial meeting was to come to grips with three major trade problems, the expansion of trade of the less developed countries, world trade in agricultural commodities, and another round of negotiations to reduce tariffs and other barriers to world trade. I reported that the countries concerned agreed to come to the negotiating table and that a start had been made toward resolving many of the current,

Supply-Trade and Commerce complex and difficult problems that emerge in a series of negotiations of this magnitude.
Let me refer briefly to those preparations that more directly affect Canadian trade. Hon. members will recall the nature of Canada's export trade in relation to the nature of our import trade. Although our trade in manufactures is growing and must greatly expand, and I hope will greatly expand, in the main we are still an exporter of primary materials and foodstuffs. These are products for which Canada has already in large part negotiated duty free, low duty or other appropriate access to markets abroad. Terms of access for these products to foreign markets could still be notably improved, of course, and trade expanded, particularly where quotas or other restrictive devices have been applied, but here it is rather a question of maintaining the access we have already obtained and that we have bargained for and paid for.
On the other hand, we are one of the world's largest importers of manufactured goods. It was for this reason that I made it clear that the negotiation plan which had been submitted by the United States, based upon their trade expansion act, and which is applicable to the large industrial exporters, would not yield for Canada the necessary mutuality of trade and economic benefit. I made it clear that Canada would play its part and make concessions commensurate with the benefits we receive. This we intend to do, and our role will not be a limited one.
As I intimated earlier, it is precisely because our range of exports is now relatively narrow, and precisely because we must move forward to expand the range as well as the value of our exports, that we must take full advantage of the opportunity presented by the GATT trade negotiations to improve Canadian access to all important foreign markets and, if I may add, particularly in manufactured goods. I trust that the price we shall have to pay in terms of adjustment of the Canadian tariff can also be negotiated in a way which will make a contribution to the competitiveness and efficiency of Canadian production both here and abroad.
An official committee of the GATT countries which was established by the meeting I attended in Geneva, known as the trade negotiating committee, has been hard at work to elaborate the broad negotiating principles set forth in May by the trade ministers. Another body, the GATT cereals group, has already held meetings to exchange views about arrangements for world trade in wheat and other grains in present international circumstances. This work will be continued and intensified in the months to come, leading to


the major negotiating conference scheduled for May of next year.
We are, of course, also active in other bodies whose work relates to trade and associated matters. We consult regularly and frequently with the organization for economic co-operation and development, with our trading partners of the Atlantic community, and we look forward to welcoming Japan to this important grouping. The OECD is, as the house is aware, a body where many of the industrially advanced countries consult and discuss questions of mutual interest in such fields as broad economic policy, development assistance generally, and international trade problems of various kinds.
We have also recently participated in preparatory meetings in Geneva for the United Nations conference on trade and development scheduled for next year. Further preparatory meetings for the United Nations conference will be held in January, 1964. Canada, of course, has long participated in the work of the United Nations and its specialized agencies which have implications for trade. We have played and are playing a role in commodity agreements concluded at various times under United Nations auspices, particularly the international wheat agreement, and in commodity study groups operating under the aegis of the United Nations such as that for lead and zinc. I had the great privilege last summer of presiding at the United Nations conference on coffee. In the important series of discussions leading up to the United Nations conference on trade, particular emphasis is being placed on ways and means of meeting the pressing trade and economic problems of less developed countries.
As I said when I returned from London and Geneva at the opening of this session, this is to me one of the most significant developments that have been taking place recently in world trade. The less developed countries are eager for developments. They are eager for assistance and they are eager to trade.
May I also comment upon the close contacts we maintain through the usual bilateral channels of trade discussions. We are virtually in day to day contact with our important traditional trade partners such as the United States, Britain and other commonwealth countries, the European economic community, and Japan on matters of mutual interest. I expect that the Canada-United States committee of ministers on trade and economic affairs will be meeting later this year, and at that time we shall be reviewing a range of important trade and related subjects with the United States members, including the participation of each country in

the GATT negotiations and questions of particular concern in the trade between the two countries.
Hon. members may recall that when I was in Washington some weeks ago I proposed that our two countries should do some general studies in the field of energy. I hope that at the meeting of Canadian ministers and United States secretaries we shall move this proposal another step forward. It was well received on an informal basis by the United States secretaries I had the privilege of meeting, and I fully expect we can have a most useful exercise which will have far reaching implications on the development of our energy resources in oil, gas, electrical power, nuclear energy and coal in the years to come. In the meantime, of course, there is a continual interchange between the two countries on trade matters of mutual concern as the need arises or as opportunity for fruitful consultation appears.
In May of this year, at the meeting in London of the commonwealth economic consultative council, I had the welcome opportunity of discussing with British and other commonwealth trade ministers a range of commercial problems of common and particular concern. This meeting was most timely, coming as it did just before the meeting of GATT trade ministers. As the house knows, I was able at that time to have useful discussions with the British minister of agriculture about the important changes pending in their policies affecting imports of farm products. As I said at that time in answer to a question by the Leader of the Opposition, I think the changes that are taking place in British agriculture policy could be very constructive and, from our point of view, they are important and I believe perhaps indicate a way in which relations between importing countries with protective policies and exporting countries like Canada could be put on a more secure basis.
Such bilateral consultations complement the work we are doing in multilateral organizations, in concert with other important importers such as the European community and in concert with other exporters, to establish a satisfactory framework for expanding trade in farm products, which is one of the main problems facing the world in the months ahead. Agricultural trade continues to face greater barriers and obstacles to expansion than is the case for industrial products generally. It is our aim to achieve a framework for trade that will permit of a greater exchange of agricultural goods under conditions which recognize more than at present the desirability of drawing supplies from efficient producers. A parallel aim is to limit
Supply-Trade and Commerce the adverse effects on trade of excessive agricultural protectionism throughout the world in both exporting and importing countries. We are also giving careful consideration to our exchanges with state trading countries. I am hopeful that progressively we shall be able to find a stable market in at least a number of other countries, not only for wheat but for other Canadian products. In return, as with other countries, we must expect to see their goods find a place in the Canadian market under conditions which will not pose the threat of disruption to efficient Canadian production.
Many problems are involved in moving in this direction. I know that some hon. members on the other side have had some direct experience in these matters and fully understand that I am not exaggerating the difficulties. However, I am confident that, given the desire on both sides to do so, appropriate solutions can be found and, if I may say so, have from time to time been found.
In my report to the house on May 24 I indicated that reaching international agreement on the broad lines for future negotiations was by no means easy. I said that much remained to be done before there could be confidence that the various negotiations would yield a substantial and positive result. This is still the case. Under the tariff negotiations committee established by GATT ministers in May, machinery has now been set up to deal as a matter of urgency with such key problems as the depth of tariff cuts and the question of exceptions as between the large highly industrialized countries which are expecting to participate in the tariff negotiations on a linear basis, and countries like Canada which will be participating on the basis of an exchange of concessions of mutual value. By the end of the summer we should have a clearer idea than is possible at present of the scope and character of the tariff reductions that may be negotiated by the United States, the European economic community, the United Kingdom and other European countries, both within and without the free trade area.
It is the intention of the Canadian government to establish appropriate procedures and facilities to enable the government to secure the benefit of the views of all Canadian interests concerned both with respect to concessions that may be offered by other countries and with respect to the Canadian tariff. This will be done as soon as enough information about the scope of the negotiations is available to permit meaningful consultations.
I have had a number of inquiries, and perhaps other hon. members have had these inquiries, about when consultations are to

Supply-Trade and Commerce begin. For that reason I emphasize again that I do not think these consultations should begin until we know enough about the scope of the negotiations to make these consultations meaningful, and to avoid having to undertake them twice. The government attaches particular importance to such consultations as we move into the phase of detailed preparations for Canadian participation in negotiations that may well be of very great importance for Canada's trading position and for world trade.
I am convinced, and I am sure the house will agree, that our posture toward these negotiations should be active and positive and that we should use our influence to shape them in a way consistent with our national interests. In this regard we must obviously be prepared to make a contribution commensurate with the benefits to be received and appropriate to the objective of the further expansion and liberalization of world trade.


Mr. Chairman, I am sure all hon. members wish to thank the Minister of Trade and Commerce for his first statement in opening discussion on the estimates of his department. I am sure he must derive a certain amount of satisfaction in being one who has gone up the ladder all the way in his department. I am also sure he must now view the whole problem of trade and commerce somewhat differently, now that he has certain political responsibility in regard to the policies and administrative practices of that department.
The minister spoke about the objectives of the trade policies of his government, and I hope we will hear something more about them in detail. Doubtless we will later on, particularly with regard to the nature of the development here in Canada and the degree of co-operation between the government and industry as such. I should like to refer to this in greater detail later on.
I was keenly interested in the remarks of the minister when he was speaking about the deficit Canada faces on its current international account. He must of course realize there has been a changing pattern in this regard since the time he was deputy minister; because at that time, going back to 1952 in any event, one of the significant features of Canada's deficit on the international account was the extraordinarily high and unfortunate deficit on merchandise or commodity account, a situation which has been gradually improved to the point where for the last two years we have had a surplus on that account.
There were various factors which led to this result, and I think the minister would agree that the deficit on international account must be tackled in various sectors over some of

which he has relatively little control. He has inherited a cumulative situation going back for scores of years when Canada always had a deficit on international account. This has accumulated primarily through the investment of foreign capital in Canada, particularly since 1945 when there were extraordinary amounts of foreign capital invested here. We now see that we must pay for that capital by way of dividends or periodic repayments.
I think the minister would also agree with me that before this situation gets better it will get worse, in that as economic activity develops in Canada, naturally foreign owned industry will benefit from this healthy climate, and greater dividends will have to be paid abroad unless there are compensatory fiscal or budgetary policies which would encourage the reinvestment of those dividends in Canada to the point where we might look to a Cana-dianization of this foreign capital. In this regard I feel some sympathy for the minister in that I am sure he is holding his head visualizing the potential effects of certain recent budgetary moves on the level of Canadian trade.
In indicating the base