On the order: Motions:
That the thirteenth report of the special committee on procedure and organization, presented to the house on October 7, 1964, be now concurred in.


Mr. Speaker, if the house does not agree with this suggestion I have no objection, but I wonder whether we could go ahead with the orders of the day and return to this motion immediately thereafter. There may be some discussion on this matter, and I would think it would be more in order if we finished the orders of the day and then returned to this motion. I am not trying to hold it up in any way; the questions would be concluded and then we could return to this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I can speak only for myself, but I would say that as far as I am concerned I have no objection, provided it is understood now, without unanimous consent being required later, that we would revert to motions after orders of the day had been concluded. Of course, it is up to the house.


Well, Mr. Speaker, I think we might accommodate the Leader of the Opposition.


I may say to the Prime Minister that there is no motion or anything of that kind to intervene. This is simply in order to expedite discussion.


I have no objection to proceeding with orders of the day first.


Do I understand that I should call motions and then go immediately to orders of the day, and revert to motions later?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, on the understanding that when we revert to motions
we will deal with both the thirteenth and fourteenth reports.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister in connection with an article appearing in today's issue of Le Devoir. I would ask him whether the government has in its possession a study of the distribution of federal administration expenditures in the ten provinces and whether this document is, according to the report by Jean-Pierre Fournier, one of major importance in connection with Canada's economy and also the position of the province of Quebec.


Mr. Speaker, I will ask the Acting Minister of Finance to answer this question.


Mr. Speaker, the Department of Finance has been conducting a study of the allocation of federal revenues and expenditures among the ten provinces. This study is intended to provide material for answering questions on the subject asked by hon. members some months ago and referred to in the house the other day. Work has been going on in the department for months in anticipation of questions of this nature.
This subject was discussed at some length in the house on August 7 during the debate on the fiscal revision bill when the Minister of Finance indicated the nature of the work in progress and some of the difficulties being encountered. This study is only now being completed in the Department of Finance. The results are to be incorporated in replies to the questions asked hon. members; it has not yet been transmitted to the minister.
It will be evident that the assertions in the story in Le Devoir are untrue. The Minister of Finance was not given these completed figures three months ago, they have not been referred to the cabinet, and they have not been concealed.

Inquiries of the Ministry


The hon. member for Ville-neuve.


Mr. Speaker, my question was already asked by the right hon. Leader of the Opposition.
My question was about the famous report which the government supposedly received more than three months ago.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a question to the Acting Minister of Finance to clarify the answer he gave the house a moment ago in connection with the study of the distribution of federal revenues.
Can he tell us whether or not the Minister of Finance has received a preliminary outline of the report to be submitted by his officials? If yes, can he say whether the minister has ordered a revision?


Mr. Speaker, the question is extremely complicated, and perhaps it would assist the house if I mentioned, for example, that one has to distribute sales tax collected at factories throughout all parts of the country. It would not be fair to say that all the sales tax collected at the factory in province A was paid by the consumers in province A; nor, for the same reason, would customs duties collected, for example, in the port of Montreal be properly attributed as revenues attributable to the province of Quebec, because those customs duties of course are paid by all Canadian consumers of those goods which pass through the port of Montreal. This is the nature of the problem; it is extremely complicated. The Minister of Finance has not seen any figures that have taken into account this redistribution of revenues collected at particular points.


My question was directed to learning whether a preliminary report had been submitted to the minister.


No preliminary report has been submitted which takes into account the factors that I have mentioned.


Was any preliminary report whatsoever submitted?


I do not understand the nature of the question, Mr. Speaker. Of course, you can look at public records and find out how much customs duty is collected at various ports. That information is available to the Minister of Finance. He has never seen any


distribution of revenues amongst the ten provinces, as requested in the question asked in this house.


The hon. member for Lot-biniere.


Excuse me, Mr. Speaker, it is the second time that you have called my name. The question I wanted to put is the same as that put by the right hon. Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Diefenbaker).


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister.
Could he tell the house whether the government will have enough courage to publish those studies made on the distribution of the federal government's expenditures in the ten provinces, even if those figures were to show that the province of Quebec was the least favoured of all the provinces?


If the hon. member had listened and understood the answers given to this question he would have realized that this work is being done to secure information in reply to questions asked in the house and will automatically, of course, be made public. [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a supplementary question.
I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would agree to including two finance officials of the Quebec government among the officials of the federal government who are conducting this study, so as to eliminate the suspicions on the part of Quebeckers as to the objectiveness of certain federal officials?


Questions of this kind are answered on the responsibility of the government and with the advice and expert assistance of federal, not provincial, officials.


On the orders-of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime

Minister, in view of the submissions which have been made to the respective provinces by the various colleges of physicians and surgeons, particularly the more recent submission to the government of Quebec, suggesting a health insurance plan which would have the effect of dividing Canada into haves and have nots, whether he will give the house the assurance that when the federal government meets with the provinces it intends to place before them a proposal which would adhere to the basic recommendations of the Hall commission, particularly the recommendation that health services under such a plan should be available to all Canadians irrespective of financial ability to pay and without any means test.


Well, Mr. Speaker, as my hon. friend knows the recommendations of the Hall commission are being examined at the present time. The examination is concerned with a very important as well as a very complicated matter, and the Hall commission have made a very important series of recommendations. The examination will also be associated with consultation with the provinces in this matter. There is certainly no intention on the part of the government, in any action which I hope will be taken and put before the house, of making the kind of discrimination to which my hon. friend refers.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Is the minister aware of a motion passed unanimously by the Niagara Falls city council, protesting the increase in the P.S.I. insurance rates and urging the federal government to establish a national medical care plan, and, if so, what has been her reply to them?


This is a question for the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question of the Prime Minister.
Inquiries of the Ministry
During a televised interview the high commissioner for Canada in London, Hon. Mr. Chevrier, stated yesterday in London that it was difficult for his daughter to be admitted to a British university because the teaching standards in Canada are much lower than those in Great Britain.
Could the right hon. Prime Minister tell us whether he approves that a Canadian diplomat abroad should thus belittle his country, and could he find out if it might not be the daughter of Hon. Mr. Chevrier who is not qualified to meet university requirements in Great Britain?


Mr. Speaker, I have a great many things to occupy my attention these days, but I will make inquiries as to whether in fact the high commissioner ever made such a statement.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to a fellow conservationist, the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. My question is based on an article which appeared in Maclean's magazine on October 17, which was called to my attention by people who are interested in this subject. This article tells how wealthy United States sportsmen, ranging from generals to politicians, are plundering our last frontier. Would the minister inform the house what action he has taken to deal with this latest and graphic example of the plundering of Canadian natural resources by our United States neighbours?


Would the hon. member put his question on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to give notice of my intention to deal with this question at the appropriate ten o'clock adjournment hour.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Revenue. Is it the intention of the minister to make it

Inquiries of the Ministry compulsory for employers to remit weekly income taxes collected at the source on a weekly basis rather than on the present monthly basis, due and payable on the 15th of the following month?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member's question arises out of remarks I made recently in Montreal. At the present time the taxation division is studying the possibility of allowing employers to deposit the monthly remittances of taxes collected from employees in their local chartered banks to the credit of the federal government. At the time when employers in Canada make up their payrolls and deduct taxes from their employees, that money at that point is the property of the government of Canada. It is hoped that within a period of time after the practice to which I have referred has been put into operation, ultimately employers will enjoy the convenience of being able to deposit these collected taxes in their local chartered banks the same day they make up their payrolls. These taxes will be deposited to the credit of the government of Canada. It will be some time before this can be accomplished.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister saying in his present statement that the taxes must be remitted weekly rather than monthly? Does he realize the great inconvenience which will be caused to small businessmen if this practice is instituted?


Mr. Speaker, I did not say that. What I did say was that we are presently moving away from the practice of having monthly remittances made directly to the taxation division and toward a method of allowing the employers to deposit these taxes in their local chartered banks. I stated in my speech at Montreal that the ultimate step would be that the employers would deposit these taxes in their local banks at the same time as they write out their payroll cheques. The taxes collected belong to the government of Canada at the time they are collected. Under the present system there is some $100 million which remains in the hands of employers for a period of a month, and that money really belongs to the federal government.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I am sure from the minister's remarks that they will be made weekly. Am I correct in that assumption?


No. It will depend on the payroll period, which may not be weekly. I should also like to point out to the hon. member that such a step is quite some disr tance away, because it will take us a good deal of time to get a system working whereby they can deposit monthly.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Industry?
Can the hon. gentleman tell us whether there is any truth in the report from Paris to the effect that an agreement between the Canadian government and the Peugeot and Renault companies is nearly concluded and that a press release will be issued next week?


Mr. Speaker, I believe that question was asked yesterday and the Prime Minister (Mr. Pearson) answered that a statement would be made in the near future.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Trade and Commerce. It is based on a news item appearing in this morning's Montreal Gazette regarding an increase in soap prices that is now being passed on to the retail trade. I notice in this report that the reason given for this increase by the companies concerned is an increase in the price of raw materials. As a very large proportion of these raw materials are derived from the developing countries of Africa and we have continuing reports of a decline in such prices, and complaints in this regard were again voiced by African delegates at the interparliamentary union conference in Copenhagen, is the minister prepared to investigate the situation and also investigate what appears to be considered evidence of a combination for price fixing among these large corporations?


Mr. Speaker, this is a question that relates to many departments. I can assure the hon. member that I shall make inquiries and I will have suitable inquiries made elsewhere in the government as well.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Transport but, in his absence, I shall put it to the acting minister.
Could the minister ask the board of transport commissioners to intervene without delay with the C.P.R. and have the company reconsider its decision to cut to three trains per week its service between Montreal and Mont Laurier and to operate fewer trains between Ottawa and Montreal, on the north shore of the Ottawa river, that is on the Quebec side? Such a change will be highly prejudicial to workers, students and business people in general.
Second, could the minister not convince the government that it would be better to give a grant to the C.P.R., if necessary, so as not to imperil any further the economy of my riding which is already considered as a designated area?


This is a question for the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to give notice that I intend to discuss this matter at ten o'clock, at the next opportunity.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration whether he is in a position to answer the question I put to him on October 1, which was whether he would allow the governments of the Yukon and Northwest Territories to participate as observers in the forthcoming federal-provincial conference on Indian affairs.
Inquiries of the Ministry [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, it gives me great pleasure to answer the question asked by the hon. member and to inform the house that my colleague, the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources (Mr. Laing) and myself have decided to invite both commissioners of the Yukon and of the Northwest Territories, to attend that conference on Indians as observers. Also, some high officials of the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources who have responsibility over education in both those territories will be invited to attend that conference.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the minister not agree that it would be equally appropriate to invite as observers some of the native Indian people themselves who have a vital interest in this question?


Mr. Speaker, as I have already stated, that federal-provincial conference is at the level of ministers and officials of both governments. Its object is to discuss a program which will then be systematically submitted to all the Indians in the country.
I think this procedure is the best way to bring a solution to the problem, which is to co-ordinate policy. There should be an initial conference at government level and, then, discussions of various formulas with different Indian groups in order to have their suggestions concerning those programs.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister taking any steps to solicit the views and ideas of the Indian people on a national scale, inasmuch as their views should be placed before the participants in the conference at the time of their discussions?


We thought it better first to hold a conference at the government level before inviting the comments of the Indians on those policies, because we want to be able to submit to the Indians a co-ordinated program implying participation, for various reasons, of the various administrative levels of the country.
We feel that the Indians will be more satisfied with a program which will have been
8922	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of the Ministry discussed first from the administrative and financial viewpoints at the level of the various governments.


May I ask a supplementary question. I wonder if the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration has consulted with his colleague the Minister of National Health and Welfare to ascertain whether she has changed her mind about the fact that the Indians should be consulted prior to any of these discussions and prior to any decisions being made.


Before the minister answers that, may I ask a supplementary question. At the same time would he consider also the fact that while it is hoped the ministerial meeting to discuss Indian affairs will arrive at some conclusions, rather than presenting these conclusions to the Indians would it not be advisable to have Indian representatives present in order that they may be consulted at the time the decisions are being made?


Mr. Speaker, decisions will not be arrived at by that conference. At that meeting the federal and provincial governments will discuss the problems which might be raised by the extension of provincial services in the various provinces.
It is thought that a more systematic and efficient discussion might take place after the conference, if discussions were held during that conference they would involve both the relations of the governments with the Indians and those of the federal government with the provincial governments. It is felt that the interests of the Indians will be better served in this way.
This program in regard to the Indians includes no decisions whatsoever, but merely suggestions, and we shall be happy to make all the necessary changes in the program after we receive the recommendations and suggestions from the Indians.


I should like to ask the minister whether there has been any request from any Indian organization or band anywhere in this country to have the jurisdiction of the federal government over Indians sublet, transferred or assigned to the provinces. This is a very serious step and one that places the Indians in a position of subservience before the In-


dians have ever made any request for this. It looks like a very high handed practice.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to say this. A distinction must necessarily be made between the provincial services which were extended in the field of education under the administration of the Leader of the Opposition as well as by other governments.
A distinction must be made between the availability of certain provincial services to the Indians and the transfer of jurisdiction.
As I said, it is not a matter of transferring federal jurisdiction to the provinces, and I know that all or most Indians in this country are opposed to the federal government's powers being transferred to any provincial government whatsoever. On the other hand, I am well aware that all our Indians are only too glad when they are given the same advantages as other provincial citizens where social security and education are concerned.
As for the way in which provincial services can be made available to Indians, we shall be glad to discuss the matter with the Indians so as to hear their opinions and their suggestions regarding these programs.


Then the minister has said that the Indians would be very satisfied to have certain jurisdiction-


No.


Not jurisdiction but the administration-


No.


I should like to get the
distinction, because if I cannot get it I feel sure the Indians are not likely to get it.


I am not too sure.


I do not know what the interruption was from the President of the Privy Council.


I said I am not too sure of that.


The minister says the Indians as a whole are desirous of having the advantage of the social services in the provinces. When did consultation with the Indians take place which leads him to make such a statement, which in my opinion has no justification?


Mr. Speaker, all the officials of the Indian affairs branch are constantly in

touch with the Indian chiefs and the chairmen of the Indian councils, and the department has been aware for years of those needs, so much so that in the case of the province of Ontario, certain agreements have been reached with the provincial authorities in order to allow Indian children to attend Ontario schools. In fact, this trend has prevailed in Canada for many years.
But instead of reaching special agreements, what the government wants to do now is to establish an over-all program for the country, precisely so that what has been done for years in some provinces may be achieved within over-all programs, which will be to the greatest advantage of the Indians themselves.


Is this general plan designed to provide an opportunity whereby the Eskimo problem in Labrador will be easily solved? Is this what is behind this plan?


Mr. Speaker, contrary to the suggestion just made by the right hon. Leader of the Opposition, this conference will deal exclusively with Indian affairs.


The Eskimo is an Indian today.


I wonder if I might direct a question to the acting house leader, further to the questions which have just been asked. I should like to ask whether in view of what, to me, appear to be contradictory or vague statements made by the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration on this subject he does not think it would be advisable to recall the estimates of the Indian affairs branch either immediately or at an early date, so we might have an opportunity to ascertain exactly what is in the mind of the government with regard to this matter.


I will be glad to take the suggestion made by the hon. member under consideration, but I would point out to him that his remarks or comments are undoubtedly due to the fact that questions on the orders of the day are going beyond what the rules provide.


Judge Mcllraith.


In his
replies to certain of the questions which have been asked the minister said decisions are made without consultation with the chiefs of
Inquiries of the Ministry the Indian councils. Is he prepared to tell us that the chief of the Blackfoot reserve, the chief of the Sarcees and the chief of the Gleichen reserve are satisfied with the consultation they are getting?


Order. It seems to me we have had an extended discussion on this matter. Surely that is a question for the order paper.


One brief supplementary. Is the minister telling the house that the final solution to the Eskimo problem in Quebec will not be discussed at this conference?


Mr. Speaker, I said the Department of Citizenship and Immigration had only jurisdiction over the Indians, according to the definition of the Indian Act, and that the conference would deal only with the problems of the Indians.
If, at that conference, any province, Newfoundland for instance, is interested in certain questions relating to Eskimos, arrangements could be made with the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources. But the conference will only deal with problems concerning Indians who come under the Indian affairs division of the Department of Citizenship and Immigration.


May I direct a question to the minister of northern affairs, and ask him whether he will be attending that conference.


If the question of Eskimos in Ungava is being discussed I certainly anticipate I will be there. I do not think it has been pointed out that while the determination of the Supreme Court of Canada was that Eskimos are a tribe of Indians, Eskimos and their administration are expressly excluded from the powers of the Indian Act. The discussions which are to take place are in relation to the Indian Act.


May I ask the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration whether a copy of the agenda for the projected conference will be made public prior to the conference so that members of the house may have an opportunity to see it? Second, are we to take it from his remarks that the minister's concept of the Indian consensus on this whole question of federal-provincial services has been obtained from the reports he gets from

Inquiries of the Ministry the Indian agents rather than as a result of direct consultation with the Indians themselves?


No, Mr. Speaker, what I said is that the Indians' needs regarding provincial services are referred to us by the various agents who are in contact with those who wish to obtain increases in allowances, unemployment benefits, welfare benefits, etc., or who wish to attend such or such provincial school.
Still, in so far as the over-all program is concerned, as I have mentioned the matter will be submitted to the Indians for their suggestions. No decision will be taken by the government before those consultations have been held and the Indians themselves have made their suggestions, for as I have already said they are the ones who are most interested in any program concerning them.


What about the agenda for the conference?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be pleased to send to the hon. members a copy of the agenda which lists the problems to be discussed.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. In view of the serious constitutional problems involved with respect to the obvious intention of the government regarding the transfer of responsibility for and jurisdiction over the Indian people of Canada-


Order. Would the hon. member state his question quickly and not make extraneous remarks.


In view of this obvious intention of the government, will the Prime Minister consider, under enabling legislation to that effect, referring the whole question of the right of the executive to transfer jurisdiction to the Supreme Court of Canada, as the government is entitled to do under enabling legislation?


No, Mr. Speaker; I think we should proceed with the conference as planned.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Minister of Labour. Has the minister received a protest that employees of small post offices are not included under the terms of Bill C-126 relating to minimum wages and hours in federal undertakings?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Is consideration being given to rectifying this glaring error in the bill?


It will be possible on second reading of the bill to clarify the relationship of the provisions of that bill to the class of employee mentioned by the hon. member.


Do I understand, then, that some consideration is being given to the inclusion of these employees?


Order. This is extending the debate beyond all limits.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Justice, but in his absence perhaps I may direct it to the Prime Minister. In view of the strong views of the Minister of Justice concerning the treatment of offenders in Canada, as indicated in a speech made last night, is the government now going to take a strong hand in the prevention of the phasing out of certain minimum security institutions?


Mr. Speaker, I will be glad to discuss this matter with the minister and perhaps he will reply next week.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the acting house leader. I would ask the acting

house leader whether he has seen the article in this morning's Globe and Mail by Mr. George Bain, giving an inaccurate report of a confidential meeting of the house leaders held in the minister's office. I know how fair minded the minister is and I would ask him, if he has seen the article, if he will state to the house that it is inaccurate, and in particular the sentence which says that at that meeting "there was no objection".
Is the minister prepared to state that when he suggested a change for the estimates of the Department of Justice from Thursday to Wednesday, I said that I had no authority to speak for my party without consultation, and that if a change was to be made it must be made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs himself, who had earlier suggested that Thursday would be the day rather than Wednesday?


Mr. Speaker, I regret to have to advise the house that due to other heavy demands on my time this morning I have not seen the Globe and Mail today. I have not talked to Mr. George Bain for some considerable time; I do not know how many days ago, but many days ago, and certainly not this week.
I know nothing about the story. I regarded the meetings that took place as confidential. I regret very much that the house leader for the official opposition has seen fit to disclose what he regards as part of the discussion that took place in a confidential meeting. For my part, if he is going to attempt to disclose parts of those meetings I am going to have something to say, too, and disclose them all.


Hear, hear.


I regret very much the house leader for the official opposition attempting to disclose-


Nibble.


Yes, or nibble away at what I regard as a confidential meeting. I propose for my part to retain that confidentiality, and I am not going to say more on the subject at this time.


I rise, then, on a question of privilege-


Oh, oh.


-and I withdraw my remark about the minister being fair minded.


Oh, oh.
Inquiries of the Ministry


My question of privilege is this; that a confidential meeting held in his office has been disclosed to the press, and the report is inaccurate. I think this is a matter that should be taken up by the house. I regret that I did not see the article until I entered the chamber this morning; otherwise I would have prepared a suitable motion.


I have not seen it yet.


I reserve the right to raise this matter again, Mr. Speaker.


Don't be so thin skinned.


I am not thin skinned at all. I do not object to these reports, but I would prefer that they be accurate rather than inaccurate. This is casting a slur on the Progressive Conservative party and is a deliberate slur on me by the author of this article, without any consultation with me whatsoever. I would like to know who disclosed the confidential character of the meetings in the minister's office. As I say, Mr. Speaker, I reserve the right to raise this matter again.


Mr. Speaker, I hope the hon. member is not suggesting that I disclosed this information. I know nothing about the article. I am in that position; and if the hon. member has his problems, that is up to him.


Hear, hear.


I made no suggestion that the minister had made this disclosure, but I draw his attention to the fact that a confidential meeting in his office has been disclosed to the press and that it is an inaccurate disclosure. I thought the minister would at least state the facts as they are, so the record would be clear; but he has neglected to do so. I think it is a disgrace on the part of the minister not to straighten the matter out.


With the unanimous consent of the house, I suggest that we now revert to motions.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I do not want to delay the proceedings and I would be very glad to have the house revert to motions, but I am waiting for an answer to a question I

Inquiries of the Ministry asked on October 7 with regard to the broadcast of Her Majesty's arrival in Ottawa on Sunday. The Secretary of State was to give a reply, and I see he is here now. I would ask him what the C.B.C. said with reference to the article to the effect that the C.B.C. was downgrading the Queen's activities, in one particular by not broadcasting her arrival in Ottawa on Sunday next.


Mr. Speaker, if I am not mistaken I said to the right hon. gentleman that I would convey his views to the C.B.C. I am now informed by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that in planning coverage of the events in connection with Her Majesty's visit to Ottawa it was decided to give live television coverage to the war memorial ceremony on Monday morning and the departure from Uplands on Tuesday morning. The C.B.C. has already covered fully the two arrivals in Prince Edward Island with all their colour and ceremony, and will also cover the arrival and other events in Quebec city.
As to the arrival of the royal party in Ottawa on Sunday evening, this will take place after dark with minimum ceremonial display. Consequently this event will be covered for the national audience by the C.B.C. news service for French and English networks that evening.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Secretary of State.
The C.B.C. covered the arrival of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II; could the minister tell the house whether any favourable comments have been received in regard to that coverage?


No, Mr. Speaker, I, personally have received neither favourable nor unfavourable reports.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Secretary of State for External Affairs I wish to inform the house that the governments of Canada and the United States of America have agreed to place jointly before the international joint

commission a reference on pollution in waters
crossing the international boundary in the Red river.
In view of the interest which the house has taken in this matter it may be the wish of the house that this reference, which is in the form of a letter from the Secretary of State for External Affairs to the secretary of the international joint commission, should be printed as an annex to Hansard. This reference and the two references which I brought before the house yesterday I will now table.


Does the house give consent?


Agreed.
[Editor's note: For text of letter referred to above see appendix.]


that the thirteenth report of the special committee on procedure, presented to the house on Wednesday, October 7, be now concurred in.
He said: Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege and honour to move concurrence in the thirteenth report of the special committee on procedure and organization, and to do so on behalf of the committee. I trust hon. members have read this report, which was made part of Votes and Proceedings for Wednesday, October 7, but I think it would be desirable that a brief summary of what we are now proposing be given to the house and thus placed on Hansard at this time.
May I say at the outset that as with previous proposals which this committee has recommended to the house, we are suggesting that the ones we are now proposing be adopted for the remainder of the present session, unless otherwise ordered by the house.
We are making at this point, Mr. Speaker, proposals with respect to three phases of our procedure, and I shall now deal with them one at a time. In the first place we are proposing changes in standing order 26 (3). Standing order 26, as all hon. members know, is the one under which it is possible from time to time to seek to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance. So far as this standing order is concerned we are not proposing anything new, if one has in mind our present practices. However, there are two aspects of our present practice with

respect to standing order 26 which it might be said are not completely clear. What we are trying to do in this proposal is to tidy up standing order 26; we are trying to make these two points crystal clear.
The first point has to do with the right of members from the floor to speak to the question of debate before Your Honour rules whether there is such urgency. We propose that the right, which has now been accepted more or less in practice, be written into the rule itself. The sentence we propose to accomplish this is:
If Mr. Speaker questions the urgency of debate with respect to the proposed matter, he may invite members to speak on the question of such urgency.
The other point about standing order 26 concerning which there might be said to be some ambiguity is whether there is the right of appeal against Mr. Speaker's ruling in those cases where he rules that a motion is not of sufficient urgency to be allowed debate under the standing order. This matter has been debated a number of times and votes of the house have been taken. Those votes, as Your Honour and the previous Speaker know, have gone both ways. The majority of the votes and the more recent ones have been to the effect that there should not be an appeal. So we would write into the standing order words to the effect that, provided Mr. Speaker has listened to argument from the floor, any ruling that he then makes is not subject to appeal, and the sentence we propose to put into standing order 26, section (3) reads as follows:
Any ruling made by Mr. Speaker after listening to argument on the question of urgency shall not be subject to appeal, notwithstanding the provisions of standing order 12 (1).
Those then, Mr. Speaker, are the two matters concerned with standing order 26. As I say, we are tidying it up. We are writing into the rule what we have accepted in practice; and it is the general view of the committee, and I think the general view of members, that it would be a good idea to have this matter made definite. That is what we propose in the first of these three suggestions we now make.
I come now to the second of the proposals that Your Honour's committee presents to the house at this time, and it has to do with the resolution preceding what is called a money bill. As hon. members know, there has been discussion for a long time about the debate on a resolution preceding a money bill. Before 1955 there were two stages of debate prior to a money bill itself being presented;
Procedure Committee
there was debate on the motion for Mr. Speaker to leave the chair to go into committee of the whole on the resolution; then there was debate in committee of the whole on the resolution itself. In 1955 we amended the rule to eliminate the debate with Mr. Speaker in the chair, but we continued the debate in committee of the whole.
There has been an expression of opinion, which has been widely supported, that we might consider doing away with that stage of debate altogether. As a matter of fact there has been wide support for that abolition on the floor of this House of Commons. However, Mr. Speaker, there are procedural arguments for retaining at least a limited debate on a resolution preceding a money bill, and there is at least an element of doubt as to whether, under the constitution, we have the right to abolish the reference of such a resolution to a committee. I might say that very learned experts on parliamentary and constitutional procedures have said that doubt could be set aside, but if the doubt is there at all it seems to us that we should not fly in the face of it.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, we are not recommending the abolition of the debate on a resolution preceding a money bill. We are in fact recommending that it be retained, but that the debate on such a resolution in the committee of the whole be limited to not more than one sitting day. We define a sitting day in our proposed standing order in what I think are explicit terms. We make it clear that if such a resolution preceding a money bill is the first item called under government orders on a Monday, Tuesday, Thursday or Friday, and if it continues to the end of any one of those days, that is a full sitting day, and at that point that debate is terminated. However, in order to make it possible for such an order to be called at some other time-as the second or third item on one of those days, or on a Wednesday-we provide that under any other circumstances than the first one I indicated, five hours of debate in committee of the whole on a resolution preceding a money bill shall be considered to be the equivalent of one sitting day.
Once we provide for a limit of that kind on a debate, obviously the question arises as to what happens if one, two or more people, who have unlimited time, take up a good portion of the day, and is that fair? We recommend that when we are in committee of the whole on a resolution preceding a money bill, notwithstanding the provisions of

Procedure Committee
other orders, all speakers shall be limited to 20 minutes. We make no change in the right to speak more than once, in other words no change in the right to ask questions and give answers, but we do limit each speaker to 20 minutes at any one time.
It will be seen that we are trying to get this debate back to its original character, namely an occasion when there can be inquiries and short statements about the financial provisions of the measure itself. Your committee, sir, is strongly in support of this proposition and believes it is a good one for the house to try out. Therefore we present it to the house in the name of Your Honour's committee at this time, and we hope it will commend itself to the house generally.
Sir, I come now to the third and last of the proposals contained in this thirteenth report, and this has to do with the consideration of clause 1 of bills when we are in the committee of the whole. There is a general feeling, certainly shared by the members of Your Honour's committee, that our opportunities for general debate are more numerous than they need be. We have the opportunity of a general debate on a resolution preceding a money bill. We have the opportunity of a general debate on second reading. Then immediately we get into committee of the whole it is possible to have another general debate on clause 1. Every bill also has somewhere- in clause 3 or 4, or perhaps in more than one- what might be called its main operative clause, and under that main operative clause it is possible to have wide general debate. We think that some of the length of time we spend, and some of the repetition in which we indulge, may be due to this arrangement. In most cases clause 1 of a bill provides only a short title. I might say that it is the practice in the parliament of the United Kingdom to have that short title at the end of the bill rather than as its first clause. We think, therefore, without changing the structure of bills at all, that there is a very simple answer to this situation.
We now have standing order No. 78 (1), which states that the title and the preamble are not considered until the rest of the clauses of the bill have been considered. We suggest that the same thing should apply to clause 1 of a bill, and that when we get into committee of the whole to consider a bill, clause 1 should not at that point be called if it contains only a short title. Of course if it is clause 1 of an amending bill and contains substance, or something other than the short

title, then this standing order will not apply. However, if clause 1 contains only a short title we suggest the committee move immediately to clause 2 and on through the clauses of the bill, and when all the other clauses have been dealt with, that clause 1 then be called.
May I point out, Mr. Speaker, that we are not eliminating the possibility of general debate in the committee of the whole, because there is in every bill a main operative clause. As I say, it is usually clause 3 or clause 4, in respect of which general discussion is possible. We are not even eliminating the possibility of general discussion on clause 1, because we are providing that it be called after the other clauses have been disposed of. But we believe that if at that point the bill has been thoroughly discussed, and possible amendments have been dealt with, the chances that members will want to discuss clause 1 at length are a bit on the slim side. We think, therefore, that technical though this change may seem-switching the discussion on clause 1 from the beginning to the end-it would have a time saving and useful effect.
Mr. Speaker, if the house will consider these last two proposals together-the second and third proposals of this report, limiting the debate on resolutions preceding money bills to one day, and transferring the consideration of clause 1 of bills to the end of the consideration by the committee of the whole-I think it will realize that we are making suggestions that do not in any way curtail or limit freedom of speech, and do not in any way interfere with the right of the fullest possible examination of measures that are brought before it, but that on the other hand they provide for sharper and crisper debate. We believe these proposals, which are being made in this house in the name of the special committee on procedure and organization, are good and worth-while proposals. We dare to believe that having tried them out the house will want to continue them in future sessions. At this moment we recommend that they be tried out from the time this report is adopted, as I trust it will be, until the end of the present session.
Therefore, on behalf of Your Honour's committee on procedure and organization, I commend this thirteenth report to the House of Commons for its endorsation.


Mr
Speaker, the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre has outlined, in more detail

than I shall attempt, the reasons behind the presentation of this report of Your Honour's committee to the house for its approval.
I should like to make one or two brief observations and a general comment. In respect of the question of appeal, it has been my view for some time, I think shared by other hon. members, that the whole question of appeals from Your Honour's rulings must receive consideration. There are many anomalies, not the least of which is the fact that basically the chairman of a standing committee has considerably more authority that Your Honour in that, as precedent now stands, there is no appeal from his ruling, nor can an appeal from his ruling be brought into the house for further consideration. This is one aspect which I think in due course will lead to a full report on this whole question.
However, in taking this step I assume we are conducting what might be termed a form of clinical research, because in presenting these amendments to the house for the duration of this session, the extent of which is now unknown, we will have an opportunity to see how they develop and work out in practice.
On the question of the discussion on the first clause in committee, there is no doubt in my mind that here there has been unnecessary and repetitious debate. I think this is a situation which might well be cured by the proposed amendment, and that even the most hardened offender in respect of the rule against repetition will be inclined to let the opportunity pass when he is confronted with the chance to repeat what he has already said after going through the clause by clause discussion in committee. If, on the other hand, something develops during the course of the clause by clause discussion which justifies him in making a further contribution, he has that opportunity.
The third item which did give us some concern was the question of the resolution stage on matters involving the expenditure of money, where a recommendation is made by the government to the house. As the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre has said, there is a constitutional aspect which is of interest. There is, of course, another aspect which caused a great deal of concern and on which there was a considerable amount of discussion. In limiting the debate to one day we felt compelled, in spite of other standing orders of the house, to limit each member to 20 minutes. This trespasses, of course, on the traditional rights of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition. As I say, this
Procedure Committee
matter did give us concern and evoked discussion and argument. I think I can safely say it was as a result of compromise that our recommendation was brought forward in this way. My view, Mr. Speaker, is that in due course I should like to see the complete abolition of the resolution stage, but there is grave doubt in that regard because of the possible constitutional cloud entailed in section 54 of the British North America Act.
There is also another aspect which hon. members will have in mind, namely that it is at the resolution stage that members have the opportunity to put forward alternatives to legislation which has not yet been presented. Once legislation has been introduced and comes up for second reading there are strong limitations on the opportunity of a member to make his views known as to possible alternatives. It would be my hope that at such time as we are able to agree to abolish the resolution sta