Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce that the agricultural stabilization board has been authorized to continue to stabilize the price of hogs to producers for the calendar year 1964 by means of a deficiency payment program. The board is authorized to pay hog producers the amount by which the prescribed price of $23.65 per hundredweight exceeds the price determined by the board to be the national average price at which grade A hogs are sold by the producers during 1964.
As in recent years, the board will determine at the end of the year the national average price to producers at which grade A hogs were sold. If this average price should be less than the prescribed support price of $23.65 per hundredweight, then the difference will be paid as a deficiency payment to each registered hog producer on a maximum of 100 hogs graded A or B under federal inspection.
In 1963 the national average price received by producers for grade A hogs was $27.30 per hundredweight, which is well above the $23.65 support price. Therefore no deficiency payment is being made for the 1963 calendar year. The outlook for hog prices for 1964 is reasonably favourable, and prices should not fall much below the high level of 1963.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture in connection with the statement he has just made with reference to deficiency payments on hogs. Would the minister not consider making these deficiency payments during the next fiscal year on a semi-annual basis instead of on an annual basis? Because in this way-


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, this matter has been considered many times, and there is also under consideration at the moment the question whether we should make these deficiency
payments even on a regional basis. However, I will be glad to take this matter under consideration and pass it on to the stabilization board.


A supplementary question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Speaker. In view of the questions raised by his announcement today with regard to the support price for hogs, would the minister refer the operations under the Agricultural Stabilization Act to the standing committee on agriculture and colonization this session?


Mr. Speaker, I will take notice of this question.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-71, to provide for the establishment of a hospital sweepstakes board.


This is subject to the same caveat that the Chair extended the other day.


At this point I should like to direct a question to the Chair. Last session and the session before a number of these bills were determined to be out of order at the time of second reading. I remember at one point speaking to the Chair about this, and the house leader for the government during the last session said he felt some method should be devised whereby private members could be informed before second reading if there were anything substantially wrong with their bills. I should like to ask the Chair whether any method has been worked out whereby private members might be given this information before second reading, and I do so in view of this caveat that has been entered to all these bills.


In reply to the hon. member I must say that the Chair is suddenly faced with a series of at least 67 bills, so it is obviously impossible within a matter of two or three days, or even a week, to give the required attention to them in order to decide upon the legality or otherwise of these bills. It was for this reason the Chair, as has been customary, entered a caveat when

Inquiries of the Ministry these bills were first introduced, to the effect that they would be subject to careful examination.
To answer the hon. member's question specifically, I may say that this is a matter for the procedure committee, which I hope will be set up soon. I recognize the difficulty, and the Chair will do anything possible to save the time of the house and to assist hon. members. On the other hand, there is the practical difficulty of a careful review of 67 bills which are not seen by the Chair until such time as they are presented. This is the situation at the moment.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence and ask him whether an order in council was passed to provide for the searches in these sensitive areas and, if not, was there a general army order issued to provide for these searches? In addition, how does an area become "desensitivized", and what provision is made for that?


Mr. Speaker, there was a general order issued in respect to the operation, in which full co-operation was given at all points.


All right, Mr. Speaker. I would like to know in how many cases, following the searches in these sensitive areas, the arms have been returned.


I cannot give the answer to that question offhand, but I shall take it as notice.


Possibly I might direct the attention of the minister to Windsor. Was there a seizure made in the Riverside school there, and were the arms returned yesterday? Further, who was sensitive? Was it the sensitivity of the Secretary of State for External Affairs that was responsible for their return?


I shall be pleased to take that question as notice, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Shortly after the theft of certain arms from the armouries in Montreal the police authorities there announced that they knew the names of a number of those who were responsible,

and that they would probably be picked up in the course of the next few days. I take it, in the absence of any other reports, that no arrests have been made. I want to ask the Minister of Justice whether these reports were in error, or is it a fact that these persons are known and no steps have been taken to arrest them?


Mr. Speaker, in accord with my responsibility I must advise the house that it would not be in the public interest if I answered that question today.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Defence in view of a newspaper report which has just been handed me, in which the eastern command indicates that some rifles and ammunition have been removed from certain areas in Nova Scotia, the areas concerned being undisclosed. Is it correct to assume that the department feels that there are certain areas in the province of Nova Scotia which are sensitive and, if so, would the minister define to us where those areas are?


Mr. Speaker, I was not aware that rifles had been removed in the province of Nova Scotia, but I will certainly take this question as notice and determine all the facts for the hon. gentleman.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister given consideration to leaving some of these rifles and ammunition in the residences of these cadet corps as bait so that the students, who are young, athletic and intelligent, may be able to effect identification of the marauders, which so far apparently it has been impossible for the armed forces or the R.C.M.P. to do?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend will be pleased to know that following an expeditious survey of the facilities of cadet corps, the rifles will be reinstated very soon.


Would the minister table a list tomorrow of the areas that have been designated as sensitive, and would he at the same time give us a list of those areas that were considered sensitive but which have now become "anomalies"?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my supplementary question on this subject to the Minister of National Defence. According to some reports I have heard, there are large

stores of dynamite in certain warehouses. Are any steps being taken to protect these large warehouses which contain a lot of dynamite?


I certainly hope so, Mr. Speaker.


The hon. member for Parry Sound-Muskoka.


Can the minister give us some of the steps he has taken to protect against break-ins so far as these warehouses are concerned?


Order. I can only take one member at a time, even with the best of intentions. The hon. member for Parry Sound-Muskoka.


A supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Since it is now quite obvious that subversive elements in Canada are arming for some type of uprising, can he assure the house that the government is taking firm action to keep the situation under control?


I think the government has taken all appropriate steps so far.


What are they? Pick up the Boy Scouts.


A supplementary question to the Prime Minister. My question concerns not only the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Justice but various departments of government, and 1 think we should be assured that the Prime Minister is seized of the seriousness of the situation and that the state of the nation is being protected.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of National Defence. In the light of all the circumstances does he think it wise to leave the noonday cannon exposed and unguarded?


Mr. Speaker, I am counting on the veterans guard of parliament hill to keep surveillance over that.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. Is it true that the government intends to carry the withdrawal of small arms from the cadet units further and discontinue all cadet and student militia training as reported recently?


No, Mr. Speaker.


A supplementary question. Would the minister then inform all cadet units throughout the country of this assurance, so they will be prepared to carry on these very necessary activities in the schools?
Inquiries of the Ministry


I think they will be reassured very soon, Mr. Speaker.


I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence if he or any of the senior officials of his department have issued instructions to the military personnel who are engaged in removing small arms or ammunition from high schools and sea cadet units, to the effect that press pictures of these operations may not be published until some time in the future.


Not to my knowledge.


Since I am informed that this sort of activity took place in Woodstock as late as yesterday afternoon, I wonder if the minister would be kind enough to look into the matter.


I would be glad to take the question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Associate Minister of National Defence relative to the questions asked yesterday about the towers in northern Saskatchewan. Is it true that two of these towers have already been demolished; and is it also true that neither the Saskatchewan government nor Saskatchewan government telephones were consulted before the destruction of these valuable towers took place?


Mr. Speaker, I did answer the question yesterday. It is possible that both these towers are now down. All the towers on the western portion of the mid-Canada line have to be down by March 31.


Why?


I also stated that the department had made inquiries as to any agencies or government departments which might be interested in these particular towers, and that no interest was shown by anyone except the C.B.C. The C.B.C. communicated with the department, but at the moment it was too late to be able to stop the destruction of the tower at Buffalo bay.


A supplementary question. I am informed that neither the Saskatchewan government nor Saskatchewan government telephones, which might well have used these towers for communications in the north, were consulted prior to the demolition of the towers. My information is that they were not consulted. Would the minister verify this?

Inquiries of the Ministry


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I will verify that matter.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources if his department gave consideration to a program which could use these towers before they were cut down and fell into the brush?


No, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
should like to ask the Minister of National Defence whether any steps have been taken to meet the critical housing needs of the R.C.A.F. personnel involved in the current transfer of squadrons from Grostenquin to Zweibriicken?


I will take the question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I direct my question to the Minister of Finance. Has he received an application from the Laurentide Finance Corporation Limited for the right to open a new national bank with headquarters in Vancouver?


Mr. Speaker, there is an application, which comes as a notice in the Canada Gazette. I do not know whether the notice has appeared yet, but these people have been in touch with the inspector general of banks about the possibility of applying for a charter.


On the orders of the day:
{Translation]
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the right hon. Prime Minister.
According to a news report broadcast by the C.B.C. yesterday, the American government will reduce income taxes by $11.5 billion, which will mean a tax cut of $4 a week for 80 million Americans.
Does the Canadian government intend to follow the example of the United States government, as it did so well in the case of nuclear arms?


Mr. Speaker, the question deals with government financial policy, and the matter will be dealt with in due course, perhaps in the budget.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the recent remarks of Premier Lesage and Mr. Johnson in Quebec that Her Majesty should be given every protection on her forthcoming visit, and the remark of Mr. Cass, the attorney general of Ontario, who has stated that he is unaware whether the matter comes under provincial jurisdiction, will the minister now take responsible and positive steps to this end by instructing his officials to cause an information to be laid with respect to the threat against the life of the Queen? I refer, of course, to the statement of Dr. Chaput, and I quote:
Some of my own people are ready to let her know-


Order.


-and brutally-that she is no longer welcome- Mr. Speaker: I am sure the hon. member must have heard me call for order.


No.


Well, he hears me now. The length of the question, it seems to me, is altogether too great, even assuming it is in order. I realize the importance of this matter and the concern of all members in the house. I wonder if the hon. member could reduce the length of the question. Could he not let us have just a short, crisp question?


First, may I say I did not hear Your Honour call for order. I was reading from the notes on my desk, and I did not hear the Chair because of the noise made by members on the government side.
The question concludes with the quotation of Dr. Chaput's words-"Some of my own people are ready to let her know, and brutally, that she is no longer welcome in French Canada". Are these not words which are clearly intended to disrupt the tranquility of the state and contribute to disorder in Canada?


answered that question earlier in the house.


I have a supplementary question, if I may have the floor. The question was answered by the Minister of Justice

yesterday by saying that responsibility in this matter lay with the attorneys general of the provinces, a statement which Mr. Cass has refused in the last 24 hours by saying he is unaware that the province has jurisdiction. I wonder if the minister could clarify the position.


Well, Mr. Cass, the attorney general of Ontario, said he was looking into this.
Mr. Eldon M. Woolliams {Bow River): I
should like to put a supplementary question to the Minister of Justice. Surely these words, which do disrupt the tranquility of the state, are of such a nature as to show a criminal intent, and surely the Minister of Justice must assume some responsibility for the administration of law in Canada. I should like to speak on a question of privilege-


Order. This is developing into a debate. Has the hon. member a real supplementary question to put? If not, I recognize the hon. member for Megantic.


I have a question of privilege. It does seem to me that when we are putting questions we should surely have some order in the house. It may be that the group over there has no respect for the crown in Great Britain or the crown in Canada, but we on this side have a lot of respect for it. It may be that they have no respect for the rule of law or for the constitution of the country.
Now, may I put my question again to the Minister of Justice. My supplementary question, briefly, is this. The Minister of Justice is certainly the Attorney General of Canada and responsible for the administration of justice in this country. As such, surely he takes responsibility for the implementation of the law as contained in the Criminal Code of Canada.


You have ruled time and again, Mr. Speaker, that questions seeking answers which are legal opinions are not in order, and I think I would not be in order if I answered that question.


Possibly we could clarify the position this way. The Queen has been invited here by the government of Canada. Has the Minister of Justice, following the reading of the remarks made by Dr. Chaput, communicated with the attorney general of any province suggesting action?


I said yesterday, I think, that I had asked to be fully informed of the text of the speech. I have not yet received it, but I am told I will have it this afternoon. I
Inquiries of the Ministry plan to communicate with the proper provincial authorities as soon as I have it.


A further supplementary question in view of the fact that the provisions of the Criminal Code in certain sections contain time limitations, one of which specifies six days from the time the words are uttered, so the day would be Friday. Does the minister intend to take prompt action with respect to what might be the seditious words used by Dr. Chaput?


I realize the intense concern of all hon. members, including the Chair, in this matter, but the rules are here; they have been devised by the members themselves, and it is my duty to apply them. On October 31, 1963 I gave the house a summary of certain general principles, amongst which were the following:
The purpose of a question is to obtain information and not to supply it to the house.
A question, oral or written, must not:
-ask a solution of a legal proposition, such as the interpretation of a statute or of a minister's own powers, etc....
Surely the importance of the matter and the concern of everyone in the country has been sufficiently brought to the attention of the Minister of Justice, who is-


What is he doing about it?


-assuming his full responsibility and is just as concerned as anyone else in the house about this matter. May I suggest that we leave the matter there, unless there is something extremely important this morning that has not already been brought to the minister's attention.


Mr. Speaker, on the point of order raised by Your Honour, I suggest that the matter, as well as being of importance and concern to all hon. members of the house and the people of Canada generally, is one of extreme urgency in view of the limitations which are contained in the provisions of the Criminal Code. Since the words were uttered on Monday the minister has not satisfied the members of the house that any action has been taken by him or the officials of his department. His department has a direct responsibility in assuring the safety of the Queen in the right of Canada, because it is at the invitation of this government that the Queen is visiting Canada. Surely, therefore, there is a responsibility on the part of the minister to tell us what action he or his officials are taking before the time expires on Friday, which is tomorrow. Surely we should know about any action that can be taken.


Mr. Speaker, I am well aware, as my hon. friend has pointed out, of the time limitations and restrictions which

Inquiries of the Ministry are spelled out in the Criminal Code with respect to any aspect of this question. I thank the Chair for having assumed-and I hope everybody knows this-that my concern with this question is at least as deep as that of any of those hon. members who felt it to be their duty to put questions on the subject.


Hear, hear.


The last thing I want to say, Mr. Speaker, is that with regard to this matter I intend to discharge my duties as Minister of Justice for Canada in a way that is fully consistent with the provision that the administration of justice is vested in the provincial attorneys general.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Justice a supplementary question. If it is true that the responsibility for making an investigation concerning the statements made by Mr. Marcel Chaput is that of the provinces as much as that of the federal government, and in view of the fact that those statements were made in Toronto, what prevented the Ontario authorities from putting Mr. Chaput under arrest to satisfy the Conservative members in this house?


A further supplementary question to the Minister of Justice. How can the Minister of Justice tell this house of his deep concern in this matter when he has already indicated that he has not obtained a report?


Order.


Order. I am afraid this is a statement and not a question. Would the hon. member care to rephrase it?


If the minister is so concerned about this particular matter, why has he not had the remarks of Dr. Chaput brought to his attention, or why did he not make sure that he had them before now?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, since the Secretary of State answers to the house for the C.B.C., I should like to ask him whether he feels that

it is decent and proper for the wife of a minister of the crown to continue being mistress of ceremonies on a C.B.C. program.


Mr. Speaker, to my knowledge, Mrs. Maurice Sauve is still responsible for a most interesting program on the C.B.C. network.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I have asked the Secretary of State a definite question, that is whether it is decent for the wife of a minister of the crown to continue being the mistress of ceremonies on a C.B.C. program.


Mr. Speaker, it is not for
me to judge what is proper or not in that field.
{Text]


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State and at the same time, rise on a question of privilege.
I note that three quarters of the C.B.C. T.V. news at 10.30 p.m. consists of international news. Would it be possible to ask for the broadcast of information on national events concerning parliament or provincial legislatures, so as to keep Canadians posted on what is taking place in their own country, followed by a general outline, perhaps, of happenings in the outside world?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be pleased to bring the views of the hon. member to the attention of the C.B.C. board of directors.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, if I may be allowed I should also like to answer a question asked by the hon. member for Lapointe last Monday.

It is not true that the C.B.C. management has investigated or is investigating the political activities or opinions of the employees of the corporation.
Furthermore, the corporation alone is responsible for the appointment of its employees, and the C.B.C. management has not given any instructions of the type mentioned in the hon. member's question.


CONSIDERATION OF FINANCING OF ACCESS ROADS On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. Could the minister tell the house what the government intends to do to succeed in using up the fund provided to finance the building of access roads in accordance with federal-provincial agreements?


Does the minister wish to answer? If not, I suggest that the question be put on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I will take this question as notice.

SUGGESTED CONSIDERATION OF NEW FISCAL ARRANGEMENTS On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister.
Could the Prime Minister tell us if his cabinet is analysing, studying or intends to suggest a new tax distribution or sharing scheme at the next federal-provincial conference?


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if my hon. friend would repeat the last part of his question which I did not get.


I would like to ask the
Prime Minister whether the cabinet is studying a plan for a new fiscal redistribution as between the provinces and the federal government, to be presented at the next federal-provincial conference.


Mr. Speaker, fiscal matters will indeed be considered at the next conference, and naturally the government will have certain plans and proposals.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in answer to a question
20220-19i
Inquiries of the Ministry the hon. member for Joliette-L'Assomption-Montcalm asked me last Tuesday, I might say that so far as the Department of Agriculture is concerned protection is already being provided Canadian growers of flue-cured tobacco under the Agricultural Stabilization Act. It might be of interest to members to learn that consumption of tobacco was up by 4J per cent in 1963. This is probably due to the fact that we have a very buoyant economy and consumption of all agricultural products is up.


A supplementary question to the Minister of Agriculture. In view of the fact that the revenues of farmers in Quebec, Ontario and the maritimes are constantly diminishing, what measures is the minister taking to prevent a catastrophic failure involving our farmers?


I would suppose, Mr. Speaker, that these matters can be cured if the present government stays in power.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Prime Minister whether he would give serious consideration to having a special committee of the house set up to examine the position as a result of his statement which gave an imprimatur to Reader's Digest and Time magazine. I ask him this in view of the repercussions, he being aware of the law, which would result in Canadian interests being disturbed by this decision.


Mr. Speaker, there will be ample opportunity for all members of the house to discuss this matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that Secretary General U Thant has apparently failed to organize a peace keeping force for Cyprus, and also in view of the fact that President Makarios has stated publicly that he will accept a commonwealth peace keeping force for his island, is there any action being taken now to organize something which could be effective along the lines suggested by President Makarios?

Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I think it is premature to say that the matter has failed before the United Nations, because it is still before the security council. It is my impression, although I would have to check before making the statement dogmatically, that it comes before the security council again either today or tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in answer to a question asked by the hon. member for Skeena last Tuesday, and with the consent of the house,
I wish to table in duplicate a list of the 22 outstanding orders for returns.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State. Has approval been given to the government of New Brunswick to table correspondence exchanged between the government of New Brunswick and the government of Canada relative to the centennial grant of $2,500,000?


I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, but I did not hear the question.


Has approval been given to the government of New Brunswick to table correspondence exchanged between the government of New Brunswick and the government of Canada relative to the centennial grant of $2,500,000? This would be in the New Brunswick legislature.


I have received a request for permission to table this correspondence, and as far as I am concerned I have no objection whatsoever to the tabling my correspondence with the premier of New Brunswick and Mr. Irwin, the provincial minister responsible for centennial celebrations in that province.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. Is it true that the railway association of Canada has served

notice to terminate the Canadian railway board of adjustment No. 1? If so, what arrangements are being made to meet the requirements of section 19 of the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act?


Mr. Speaker, it is true that the railway association of Canada has served such a notice of termination. This termination may have undesirable consequences if alternative procedures are not found, but I think the railway association of Canada is giving consideration to this question now.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the Minister of Labour.
Would the minister report to the house with respect to the preliminary steps for the drafting of a federal labour code?


The intentions of the government in this respect were communicated in the speech from the throne. I have nothing further to add at this particular time. I am referring, of course, to the statement in respect of the labour standards legislation.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Has a decision been taken to move the women's prison from Kingston to Cornwall? Can the minister say whether there have been protests from some of the university and professional people in Kingston, who feel it would be better if the prison remained there where certain services can be made available to these prisoners?


Mr. Speaker, although the hon. gentleman had the kindness to advise me verbally that he would put this question today, I will ask for leave to answer it tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for either the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources or the Minister of Justice. In view of the decision of the Supreme Court of

Canada in 1939 that the term "Indian" used in the British North America Act includes Eskimo inhabitants of the province of Quebec, and having in mind that section 91 of that act vests jurisdiction for Indians primarily in the parliament of Canada rather than in the government, can either of the ministers assure the house that any agreement made between the government of Canada and Quebec with regard to these Eskimos will be submitted for consideration to parliament?


Mr. Speaker, I think I made a statement the other day in respect of this matter, in which I stated we were fully aware of the paramount interest of the government of Canada as a result of the decision of 1939 on the matter referred to the court by the province and the federal government, and we will certainly continue to bear in mind the paramount responsibility of the national administration in respect of these people.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Labour, and arises from complaints regarding visits by the audit inspectors of the unemployment insurance commission. Is it the policy of the government to increase the number of these visits and investigations of employers of part time help, who have not been kept properly informed regarding the deductions they should have made and are being assessed considerable sums of money?


Mr. Speaker, the administration, of course, is a matter for the commission and no directive has been sent to the commission by the government. However, I will ask the commission for a report on this particular matter.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the minister ask the commission to circulate more information regarding the regulations in this regard?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I will be glad to ask the commission to consider this suggestion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have given the Minister of North-
Inquiries of the Ministry ern Affairs and National Resources notice of this question concerning national parks. In view of the decision of the government of British Columbia to allow limited exploitation of the forest and mineral resources of provincial parks, will the minister assure the house that no change is contemplated regarding national parks?


Mr. Speaker, I do not want to relate my answer in any way to any determination of policy on the part of a provincial government. What they do with their parks is their responsibility. I appreciate the opportunity of repeating our policy in respect of the national parks of Canada. We are restricted to maintaining our national parks in a state of nature, which means the preservation of the wilderness aspect of the parks. This will continue. We feel that the harvesting of resources, either above or below the soil, is not consonant at all with the maintenance of the state in which national parks should be maintained.
I want to tell my hon. friend that in one or two of the western parks we have unfortunately a situation where we are harvesting the forests at the present time. These are the results of very old dominion timber berths that were alienated as late as the nineteenth century, before the parks were set aside. As an indication of our earnest intention to pursue the policy which I have enunciated, we are now working very closely with the holders of these berths to reclaim them for the people of Canada.


May I ask a supplementary question. Can the minister tell the house whether his department is negotiating now with the government of Alberta to turn over a portion of Wood Buffalo national park to the province?


There has been no official approach made to me as minister.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Will the government give consideration at this session of parliament to taking steps to improve the pensions of Canadian National employees who retired prior to April 1, 1962, along the lines supported by the Liberals when they were on this side of the house?

Inquiries of the Ministry Hon. J. W. Pickersgill (Minister of Trans- [Text] port): I shall be glad to discuss this matter Hon. Walter L. Gordon (Minister of with the management of the Canadian Na- Finance): Mr. Speaker, I think it would be tional and make a report in due course. premature at this stage to get into a discussion of what may or may not be in the INCOME TAX	budget.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue.
Can the minister tell the house why the citizens of Quebec and especially of the Saguenay area, have to send their income tax returns directly to Ottawa this year, instead of addressing them to Quebec city as was previously the case?

Hon. J. R. Garland (Minister of National
Revenue): I shall take that question as notice, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, in reference to the question asked by the hon. member for Lake St. John, as is sometimes the case something was lost in the translation, and I wonder could he restate his question.


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I would like to know from the minister why all the people in Quebec or in my region at least, Saguenay, are this year asked to send their income tax returns directly to Ottawa instead of to Quebec city, as they did previously.


This is a matter of policy, Mr. Speaker, and of course taxpayers from all over Canada are sending their returns to Ottawa this year, for processing in the data centre.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Finance?
Could the minister tell us whether he is considering at this time or intends to put to the house, when he introduces his budget, amendments to the Income Tax Act to settle the problems caused by receipts for charitable donations?


On the orders of the day:
May I reply to a question asked on Monday by the hon. member for Cape Breton North and Victoria. He asked whether there had been any recent intimation to the Dominion Steel and Coal Company that would have the effect of reducing the amount that is currently paid as a subvention on the movement of coal. The hon. member knows that after a royal commission in 1959, certain steps were taken to try to relieve the unemployment situation in that area, one of which was the payment of a coal subvention. I can report no change in the policy that has been in existence for the last couple of years.


I thank the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys for his reply, and I have another question on the same subject for his colleague the Minister of Labour. Is he prepared to recommend to his cabinet colleagues that the subventions required to market increased production of coal from Nova Scotia in Ontario and elsewhere should be forthcoming? May I ask him also if he would use his influence with his good friend the Minister of National Defence to prevent any confiscation of muskets from the Louis-burg fortress?


The hon. member for Swift Current-Maple Creek.


The minister has not answered either question.


On the orders of the day:
The other day I directed a question to the Minister of Transport regarding a transportation problem that exists on the prairies. He said he would look into the matter and give me an answer later.


I do not have an answer as yet. I directed the hon. gentleman's observations to the president of the Canadian Pacific, and as yet I have not had any reply.
I think the hon. gentleman asked also about the air service, and as the hon. gentleman no doubt knows the air transport board has a hearing on this matter at the moment. It seems to me it would perhaps be inopportune for me to intervene while that hearing is taking place. I have, however, brought the hon. gentleman's question to the attention of the air transport board, and as soon as I have something to communicate to the house I shall do so.


I do not want to appear to be facetious on this, but in this jet age surely to goodness the cancellation of air service on this run and the difficulties of getting reservations on the C.P.R. should be treated as a very urgent matter, because people cannot get reservations in that particular area at the present time. Because the hearing is on is no excuse for no action from the government.


The hon. gentleman knows both these companies are private companies, and I had not appreciated before that the hon. gentleman had become a socialist.


On the orders of the day:
Perhaps I could answer a question asked by the hon. member for Regina City. I think he asked me about a contract, and I believe I have it amongst my papers here. Perhaps I could send it over to the hon. gentleman. I am told that the contract between Trans-Canada Air Lines and TransAir was an appendix to an order in council and, presumably, therefore is a public document. I will send it to the hon. gentleman, and no doubt his interpretation of it would be quite as good as mine.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister of National Health and Welfare whether she has any answer to the question asked her
Inquiries of the Ministry yesterday concerning the drug parnate, and whether in the meantime she has been in touch with the standing drug committee.


Mr. Speaker, I have some further information in response to the question asked me yesterday by the hon. member for Sudbury and the hon. member for Simcoe East. Last night arrangements were completed with the Canadian manufacturers of the anti-depressant drugs parnate, parstelin and parstelin S2, to control and further regulate the distribution of these drugs in Canada. The company has agreed to withdraw the drugs from general circulation and limit their distribution to mental hospitals, psychiatric units in general hospitals and provincial mental health clinics where the patients are under close supervision by the medical staff.
This arrangement will be effective at once, pending re-examination of all the evidence concerning the drugs by a panel of experts which will be appointed by my department for this purpose. Furthermore, the company has agreed to communicate with all physicians and pharmacists explaining this new distribution arrangement, and I should like to commend the manufacturers, Smith, Kline and French, for their co-operation in this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the minister for her very full answer, but I would like to ask her whether she has consulted the standing committee and, further, who the members of the committee are.


Perhaps my hon. friend would take an opportunity later in the day to speak to me in the hall.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Finance. Is the minister yet in a position to indicate to the house when he will be bringing down this year's budget?


No, Mr. Speaker, I am not yet in a position to say.


As a supplementary question, does the minister this year plan to enter into contracts with outsiders to assist him in the preparation of the budget?

Inquiries of the Ministry TRADE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I intended to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce, but in his absence perhaps the right hon. Prime Minister would be glad to give an answer to it. In view of the recent reports in the press that Mr. Norman Robertson, under secretary of state for external affairs, will head the Canadian negotiating team in the tariff negotiations at the GATT meeting in Geneva on May 4, and also in view of the serious operation which it is reported he has had to undergo, does not the government feel that this might tend to weaken the negotiating team if this hon. gentleman is unable to give his best efforts, due to his reported illness?


Mr. Speaker, Mr. Robertson's skill and experience in this field are well known, and the government is fortunate to have that skill and experience at its service at this time. We hope Mr. Robertson will be quite fit physically to take charge at the negotiations when they begin in May. Meanwhile the government and the country are also fortunate in having as his deputy in these negotiations Mr. Hector MacKinnon, who has come out of retirement to help in this matter. I am quite sure Canada's interests will be well looked after both before and during the conference.


I want to thank the Prime Minister for his remarks and his answer to my question. I assume from them that the government agree we should have the strongest possible representation at these GATT conferences so that Canada's vital interests, particularly in the field of secondary manufacturing, will be strongly presented and defended.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I do indeed agree with that, and in due course I think we will be able to indicate to the house that all members of the delegation have done their best. I think my hon. friend's preoccupation with this important matter will be met when he gets the list of the delegates.


On the orders of the day:
On Tuesday the hon. member for Bow River asked a question about


the closing of a coal mine. While he did not name the mine, I have made some inquiries and I believe it is a mine in the Drumheller area that has been devoting its production to the household domestic market. I am informed that there has been an exceptionally mild winter this year in western Canada, and in consequence, while this mine usually lays off miners in the spring of the year, the layoff is somewhat earlier than usual this year.
I am informed also that present plans call for the transfer of the larger proportion of the laid off employees to an adjoining mine when Canadian household coal production commences again.


May
I ask a supplementary question. The minister might not be aware of the fact that this is the Atlas mine. It is my understanding from the telegram I received from the chamber of commerce of Drumheller that this mine is being permanently closed. If that is true we will have a pool of 100 unemployed men in an area which already has a surplus of labour. I wonder if the Minister of Labour would care to comment on this matter.


If the facts were clear as to whether these men were permanently unemployed, naturally I would be glad to ask the national employment service to render every possible assistance to these miners.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Labour. Will the minister assure the house and the miners in Cape Breton that recommendations in the Rand commission report, which are detrimental to that area, will not be implemented despite representations now being made?


Mr. Speaker, I am greatly concerned about the coal miners in Cape Breton, as is my hon. friend. This is a matter largely for the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys, and is really a matter of policy too large to be dealt with on orders of the day.


Orders of the day.


As a supplementary-


Orders of the day.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.


Orders of the day.


On a matter of privilege-


I heard the hon. gentleman. I do not think a supplementary is really called for at this time. Orders of the day have now been called three times. It is customary, in chambers of this sort, that when orders of the day are called we should proceed with them. Otherwise we shall make no progress at all.


On a question of privilege, I have been rising continually to ask this very urgent question. This is a question which greatly affects economic conditions in the coal mining areas of Cape Breton. It is a question which has been put before, and I believe the Minister of Labour is in a position to make a reply on behalf of these miners, since he himself knows full well what the situation is. I think it is a question which deserves an early and prompt answer.
I am speaking on a question of privilege in relation to the asking of questions. It is quite possible that the truth of what the former secretary of state had to say in a recent C.B.C. program about backbenchers and how they got along in the house is now becoming only too evident, and that his statements are now being backed up in this house to the detriment of all backbenchers.


I cannot accept any implication that there is any partiality shown by the Chair, and I am sure the hon. member did not have that in mind. If he did, it was a reflection on the house, not on the person who occupies the Chair. I think we had better leave it at that and get on with the business of the day.


If I cast any reflection on the Chair I apologize sincerely. The remarks I have just made can be very easily verified by the former secretary of state, who made similar observations in the course of a C.B.C. program some time in December.


Orders of the day.


The house resumed, from Wednesday, February 26, consideration of the motion of Mr. Jean-Pierre Cote (Longueuil) for an address to His Excellency the Governor General, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Ricard, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Langlois.
Mr. Speaker, I was reading an article yesterday- I trust I am not continuing my speech during the question period?


Order, please. It is some while since orders of the day have been called. The
The Address-Mr. Langlois hon. member for Megantic had the floor at six o'clock last evening, and according to our timetable there are at least 12 or 15 minutes remaining for his speech if he cares to utilize them.


I knew I had time at my disposal, but I was not altogether sure whether the question period was over or not.

Mr. Speaker, last night, when the house adjourned, I was reading an article which appeared in L'Action, entitled:
The consumer is king.
The article ends this way:
The consumer's interest is essentially the legitimate interest of the salesman, the manufacturer and the public services: the consumer's interest is the general interest. The consumer is king in our modern economy. We should not forget that.
Mr. Speaker, very often, we seem to leave out the consumers' needs. And, in a country such as ours, it is quite essential to take these needs into consideration, because the day a government disregards them, we might as well say that such a government does not care about the Canadian people.

As I was saying yesterday, there has been a great deal of activity in this country in an effort for national unity, in an attempt to co-ordinate all the efforts of both nations in this country to form one strong nation, the Canadian nation. But there cannot be peace while there is one section of the country which is under the impression that it is not making economic progress and is not receiving its just share from confederation.
I would remind hon. members of the points I enumerated yesterday concerning industry in eastern Canada, particularly in Quebec, and concerning unemployment in that province. I called attention also to certain taxes which are imposed all over Canada; provincial taxes, federal income taxes, municipal taxes, school board taxes and so on. From this it can be seen that consumers, the Canadian people, are saturated with these taxes and cannot absorb any more.
Our tax system at the present time is driving the people to bankruptcy. Add these things together and you have a total loss of 25 years of progress in the province of Quebec. We do not blame the Anglo-Saxons or the English part of Canada. That is not the view of the province. What the province wants now is the restoration of its right to a full share from the federal administration. The province would like to have more control over its currency, more control over its direct and indirect taxation, so that it might take the reins itself and achieve its
294	HOUSE OF COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Langlois own economic progress. It does not wish to do this at the expense of the other provinces. Until Quebec is given these possibilities there is bound to be friction between English Canadians and French Canadians, not because o