Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege affecting not only all the members of this house but more than a million Canadians. It may be that my point of privilege is due to a misprint in a document which I have in my hand. If so that can be corrected without delay. On the other hand, if what I have in my hand is correct I think other steps should be taken. Yesterday in the course of her remarks to this house the Minister of National Health and Welfare used these words:
-all future old age security pensions will be pegged to the cost of living index and will increase automatically if living costs increase.
Later she said:
-this will provide not only a greater measure of security but will also protect the real value of the pension dollar for Canada's million-odd pensioners.
We were given no details, but what the minister said was spoken in the present tense. When we got the bill last night after the debate was over we learned that the possible increase due to this adjustment cannot be received by any person drawing old age security until 1968, and that the possible amount of increase in 1968 is 75 cents.


Shame.


It might be $1.50; it might be nothing; probably it will be 75 cents. I submit, from looking at the bill, that this could well be a misprint. If so I trust it will be corrected. If not I trust that the Liberal party, which found out that six bucks was not good enough in 1957, will not try six bits in 1968.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, on the particular point I should hasten to say to the
chamber that this is not a misprint; that the address I made yesterday was on the resolution preceding Bill No. C-136, and this was known by all hon. members to be the case. All the remarks I made at that time have reference to that particular bill. Since last August it has been known by the members of this chamber and members of the public that the initial coming into effect of the bill was not anticipated to be until January 1, 1966. Within the bill there is provision for commencement, on a number of dates subsequent to that date, of benefits which will accrue to contributors and survivors; that also in the bill is indicated the initial tying to an index figure, something to take into account the increases, if any, which take place over a certain period of time which are then calculated for a two year period. There was no attempt to mislead the chamber or the public at large; that the amendments to the old age security act which are incorporated as part of Bill C-136 would come into effect at any point of time earlier than the main provisions of the Canada pension plan.
In so far as my hon. friend's suggestion that the original increase would be 75 cents or $1.50, it should be noted that use of an index is a departure, and it is the first time an index has been used for any payment in this country. My hon. friend and his party, as well as other hon. members opposite, enthusiastically accepted this last night, and indeed have heretofore urged such an inclusion in government legislation. My hon. friend now sounds as if he is unhappy that one of the matters which he himself has urged has been adopted by the government.
It should not be forgotten that the index which is to be attached to the old age security payments is to bring them into line with the index which is attached to pension payments under the Canada pension plan proper. Nothing in the proposed old age security amendments deals with the base rate of $75 a month which this government introduced a year ago and which was unanimously approved by the house. Nor is anything in this bill intended to exclude any future action by any parliament with respect to that base.
This is a very major, very far reaching and sweeping change in social legislation in this country, Mr. Speaker, and indeed commences

Question of Privilege
in a responsible way by tying the plan to the index at the time at which it comes into operation. I suppose my hon. friend in the flush of yesterday's by-election victory, which he should regard really as a victory against the Conservative party and not otherwise, now seeks to make political capital out of something which he has generously, and I think sincerely, long since accepted as a really major step forward. I would ask my hon. friend and all hon. members of the house to bear in mind that in the usual spirit of Canadian fiscal responsibility we are beginning this experiment in a relatively modest manner.


Mr. Speaker, for obvious reasons I will not attempt to debate this matter at this point.


Order.


But, Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege, the Minister of National Health and Welfare made one statement concerning me which is not correct. I have not been an advocate of pegging the old age pension to the cost of living index. I have been an advocate of raising the absolute amount.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, since the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre apparently had a copy of the bill to which we gave first reading last night, may I ask the Minister of National Health and Welfare if she will undertake to make sure that the other members of the house are supplied with copies before the day is out?


Mr. Speaker, I had about 100 copies here last night, and I assume those have gone somewhere. I believed each member would have received one this morning, but some members tell me they did not get them. I have just checked and I am told it was not possible to print more than the original 100 until a number was given to the bill, and by virtue of its length it is not likely members will have copies before Thursday.
There are 100-odd copies in existence, but 1 apologize to the house because the rest will not be available before Thursday morning in either language.


As
a supplementary question, would the minister give consideration to having this cost of living bonus for old age security pensioners brought in by amendments to the old age

security legislation so it could become effective immediately and could be based on the cost of living as of October, 1963, when the last increase was granted? It seems to me this would be a much more rational approach to the whole problem rather than having to wait until the Canada pension plan becomes effective.


Well, Mr. Speaker, the last 20-odd clauses of the Canada pension plan bill are an amendment to the Old Age Security Act, and as this bill has received first reading it is further advanced than any other legislation which could possibly be introduced.


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the Minister of Veterans Affairs was able, after consultation, to amend his announcement, would the minister have similar consultation to see if she cannot get this bonus amended and back dated?


Mr. Speaker, my colleague did not amend his announcement. He simply did not disclose in the first part the effective date, but he did so subsequently in response to a question.


Mr. Speaker, on October 30 I informed the house that there would be an announcement of government proposals to increase pensions and war veterans allowances. In conformity with that statement I am now able to make the following announcement.
There will be brought before the house at the earliest opportunity a supplementary estimate that will enable an across the board increase in disability pensions payable under the Pension Act of approximately 10 per cent, and a similar increase to pensions awarded to widows and dependent children. I am sure the house will agree that this increase in pension rates is warranted.
I am pleased to announce that the supplementary estimates will include an amount which will permit an increase in the attendance allowance from the present maximum of $1,800 a year to a maximum $3,000 a year. There will also be increases in the allowances such as for wear and tear of clothing, which are also authorized by the

Pension Act under certain circumstances. It is estimated that the additional annual cost of these pension increases, based on the present number of pensioners, will be about $17 million, and the annual cost of increasing the attendance allowance will be some $500,000.
The other important matter to which I wish to refer is the proposal of the government to increase war veterans allowances. In reaching a decision on the appropriate amount of these increases we have taken into consideration the recommendations that have been made by veterans organizations. It is proposed to increase the maximum monthly rate of war veterans allowances for a single person to $94 and for a person paid at the married rate to $161 a month, with corresponding adjustments in the rates paid to orphans.
In considering appropriate adjustments in the maximum income ceilings under the War Veterans Allowance Act we have also considered the recommendations received from organized veterans. We have decided that any adjustments in the ceilings should remove the anomaly that at present exists with respect to the ceiling applicable to veterans and widows below age 70 and the ceiling above age 70, where the recipient is in receipt of an old age security pension. At present a recipient over that age is in effect allowed a ceiling, if payment is at the single rate, of $240 a year higher than if he or she were under age 70 and, if payment is at the married rate and the husband and wife are both over age 70, the difference is $480 a year.
In order to provide a ceiling in accordance with the recommendations we have received, and to remove this anomaly, but nevertheless ensure that every recipient will enjoy some increase, including the proposed disability pension increase, we are proposing that the annual income ceilings be raised to $1,596 for a single recipient and to $2,664 where the recipient is paid at the married rate.
I should also mention that corresponding increases in rates and changes in income ceilings will apply as well to those who are in receipt of allowances under the Civilian War Pensions and Allowances Act. These increases and changes under both acts will also be accomplished by means of a supplementary estimate. It is estimated that these proposed increases in rates and the ceiling adjustments under the War Veterans Allowance Act and the Civilian War Pensions and Allowances Act will result in an additional expenditure of about $16,250,000 a year.
Veterans Pensions Increase
I am sure, Mr. Speaker, this statement will be welcomed by members of the house as an indication of the recognition that the welfare of Canada's veterans is of responsible concern to all of us.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, this is a much delayed announcement on the part of the minister with regard to a proposed increase in disability pensions and war veterans allowances.


Oh, oh.


It has taken the minister and the government a year and a half to come to this decision, although representations were made to them frequently over the period to get busy and do something for the veterans.


Why didn't you do something?


Somebody says why didn't we do it. We gave two increases with regard to pensions and war veterans allowances, each to the extent of 20 per cent, making a total 40 per cent increase in these pensions and allowances. This is only a 10 per cent increase. What puzzles me is why the minister did not have this ready when the standing committee on veterans affairs was examining the estimates of his department. Why did he not have this ready when his estimates were before the house a few days ago? We were put off and delayed, but now his statement reads that a supplementary estimate will be brought before the house at the earliest opportunity.
What is the earliest opportunity? It is right now. Why does the minister not say when this will be brought forward? Does this mean next January or February, or now in the month of November? This is what should have been said in his statement, not this ambiguous phrase "at the earliest opportunity."
On many occasions we have indicated our interest in such an increase for war veterans, and we are certainly glad that the government has finally moved in this direction. However, I am sorry it has taken it so long simply to make this announcement without setting an actual date when the increase will come into effect. If the supplementary estimate is brought before us this week we will pass it this week and thus let the veterans have their cheques before Christmas.


Hear, hear.

Veterans Pensions Increase


Mr. Speaker, there is an old saying, "Once bitten, twice shy". Therefore I am not going to hasten to welcome the government's announcement until we know when the government proposes to implement it. Are these increases going to be effective on January 1 or December 1? When will they be effective?
The minister says he is going to bring in a supplementary estimate to cover the increases. So far as this party is concerned, if the minister will bring in that estimate we will undertake to see it is passed, so far as we are able, the same day it is introduced. There ought to be some date mentioned in this statement. There is no reason why the increases should not be payable at the end of November, but this announcement without any supplementary estimates accompanying it leads us to suspect that there may be further delaying tactics. Therefore we would like a great deal more information.
If I could have the minister's attention I would like to ask him when this additional payment in both veterans pensions and allowances will become effective, and when does he intend to bring down the supplementary estimate? If we had that information the house would be more satisfied, and certainly the veterans and the widows who will benefit from this increase would also be more satisfied.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of this party may I say we welcome the announcement that there is to be some upward revision in war veterans allowances and disability pensions, but we are concerned about the fact that the effective date was omitted from the statement the minister has just made.
Without going into a lot of detail on whether or not this is a satisfactory increase I simply say we welcome the fact that there is to be one and that it has been announced at this time, despite the fact that the minister has been promising it for something like 18 months. Again may I say we would be very interested in knowing what will be the anticipated effective date.


If I may be permitted, Mr. Speaker, I do not believe I can indicate to the house the date of the introduction of the supplementary estimate, but I can assure the house that the recommendation in it will be to make these rates effective as of September 1, 1964.


Hear, hear.


That is a pretty sloppy announcement, if you are just making it now. [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I preferred waiting for the answer of the Minister of Veterans Affairs before making remarks on this question, on behalf of our group, after the objections which were raised by the spokesmen of certain opposition parties.
We were happy to hear the minister state that this increase would be retroactive to September 1, 1964.
Under the circumstances, we must congratulate the government for announcing increases in favour of veterans. However, I wish to add that the veterans must really benefit from those increases. At the present time many veterans are applying for pensions. They are examined by Department of Veterans Affairs' physicians or in hospitals maintained by the department, they are granted a very low rate of invalidity, and thus, despite the increases they will receive, their pensions will still remain very low.
On the other hand, if veterans are examined in other hospitals than those maintained by the department, by physicians holding the same qualifications as those of the department, then their rate of invalidity is higher than the one which was determined by the Department of Veterans Affairs' physicians or hospitals.
In fact, a physician who is a member of the War Veterans Allowance Board told me that the laboratory material used in the Chicoutimi hospital was not sufficiently modern, while we know very well that the Chicoutimi hospital is one of the most modern in Canada.
I would like to point out to the minister and his officials, and more particularly to those who determine the rate of invalidity of veterans, that it is not sufficient to allow increases to veterans, but that one must also be fair toward them.
They must accept the advice and recommendations of Canadian hospitals and doctors, so that the veterans may get decent and honourable pensions. They should at least be permitted to benefit from the increases announced today, and no attempt should be made to reduce the amount they are receiving by reducing the percentage of disability, as it is regularly done at the present time.



On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed

to the Minister of Veterans Affairs and arises out of the statement he made today regarding amendments to veterans legislation. Will the minister consider assisting that forgotten and neglected section of our society, the needy widows of deceased veterans who were drawing pensions and were classified as less than 50 per cent disabled? These widows receive nothing from the government, and are destitute.


Mr. Speaker, may I advise my hon. friend that there are a number of further amendments in process of preparation, amendments which will require the introduction of bills, and we decided to go ahead with the increases announced today rather than wait for these others which will be introduced in due course in the normal way. The reason for proceeding in this fashion is to make the new rates quickly effective.


Mr. Speaker, with all due deference to the minister, he has not given an answer to my question. May I have this debated at ten o'clock this evening?


Mr. Speaker, at what I consider to be the invitation of the Prime Minister yesterday with respect to making a motion to adjourn the house under standing order 26, I do so now in the light of the evident failure of the government to take the responsibility that is properly theirs by placing before the house the whole of the affairs surrounding the activities of the trustees of the maritime union; surrounding the circumstances of the departure from Canada of Mr. Banks and the failure of the government law agencies of Canada to locate him; the circumstances surrounding allegations made in national press articles which implicate Liberal members of parliament and the Liberal government as a whole, implications which if they are well founded may well cause the seats that those members are holding to be occupied improperly. I believe, under the provisions of the Canada Elections Act, that if offences have been committed of the nature implied in these articles, then the seats of these members today are void.
Motion for Adjournment
The tentacles of Mr. Banks and the S.I.U. seem to be involving ever more Liberal members of parliament. The most recent one, and the case which I think underlines the need for an urgent and immediate study of this problem by the government, is that of the hon. member for Vancouver-Burrard (Mr. Basford) who was implicated by name and by riding in a news broadcast this morning. Since lunch time that hon. member has given an interview to Vancouver radio station CKNW and admitted that he had in fact received help from the S.I.U. This was following a story yesterday by CKNW reporter Ed Murphy. He is the first Liberal member who has had the courage to come forward and admit his complicity. This in itself emphasizes the need for a detailed and immediate investigation into such situations.
I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Bow River (Mr. Woolliams)-


Oh, oh.


Why the nervous laughter?


Members opposite are obviously taking this matter very lightly. They are trying to cover up their sins. But I wonder who they expected to second the motion?


Nobody.


I ask leave, therefore, seconded by the hon. member for Bow River to move the adjournment of this house in accordance with standing order 26 in order to discuss a matter of urgent public importance, namely:
That it is imperative in the public interest and in the interest of the maintenance of law and order in Canada to proceed forthwith into a full inquiry of the influence exercised by Hal Banks and/or the seafarers international union over the Liberal government and into the activities of the board of trustees of the maritime transportation unions particularly in the light of recent statements in the press that
1.	"Certain people in the government made a deal with Hal Banks to get him out of Canada". (Toronto Star, October 2, 1964)
2.	The questionable allowance by former minister of citizenship and immigration, Hon. Walter Harris of an appeal by Hal Banks against a deportation order made June 30, 1964. (Toronto Star, October 2, 1964).
3.	The payment of moneys by Hal Banks and/ or the seafarers international union to Liberal candidates and/or Liberal members of this house and the acceptance of such moneys by Liberal candidates who subsequently sat or are sitting as Liberal members of this house. (Toronto Star, November 6, 1964).
And in the light of the continued obvious reluctance and refusal of the government to allow these and all matters affecting the relationship of the government with Hal Banks and the seafarers international union to be exposed to the scrutiny and judgment of the people of Canada.

Motion for Adjournment


Time.


May I, Mr. Speaker-


Are you going to permit intervention in this discussion by the hon. member before you take cognizance of this motion, Mr. Speaker?


Under the new rules of the house as given to me it is my duty to ask for comments from a few members who may wish to speak to this motion, as to whether the house should be adjourned under standing order 26. After I have had the advantage of listening to a few arguments both for and against, it will be my duty to reach a decision.


The hon. member who moved this motion was permitted to go into great detail as to the substance of his alleged charges. I can understand the hon. member raising the question of the S.I.U. today because today, of all days, for them it is any port in a storm.


What about the union candidate?


Of course the motion has no urgency attached to it, and it is doubtful whether it has any importance. But if hon. gentlemen opposite wish to take it seriously and have a discussion and really go into this matter, I suggest we call motion No. 82 at once and pass it without debate. Then we shall have the opportunity to call the trustees as witnesses before the committee and the whole question can be gone into. This would be the best test of the good faith of members opposite.


Hear, hear.


think the only problem the Chair might have concerns the question of urgency; and "urgency" means urgency of debate. It is a question whether we should postpone the usual business of the house and discuss something urgent or not.
I have heard the Secretary of State for External Affairs, when he used to sit on this side of the house, quote Beauchesne on occasions such as this. It might be refreshing to quote from one of the English authorities. I have here Erskine May's treatise on the law, privileges, proceedings and usage of parliament. The following appears on page 300 in reference to standing order 9 of the British house, which is the same as our standing order 26:
Under special restrictions laid down in standing order No. 9, a motion for the adjournment of the
[Mr. Nielsen.)
house may be moved by a private member "for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance". The rule is designed to give the discussion of some recently occurring matter of emergency precedence over the program of business arranged for the sitting.
Why is there urgency of debate in connection with this matter? The last time such a motion was moved-today, of course, we have new facts and it is a brand new motion-the Secretary of State for External Affairs was acting prime minister and he promised us that the estimates of the Department of Justice would be brought in on the following Thursday. I am not being critical of the hon. gentleman personally, but they came in on Wednesday after a long question period, with the result that we were denied the privilege of discussing this topic adequately. This was the reason you gave in the course of your judgment setting the motion aside; that we would have the estimates before us on Thursday. Instead we got them on another day, on Wednesday. We have called upon the Minister of Labour, the Prime Minister and others in the government asking that the trustees for the S.I.U. be brought before a committee, but we were never given a real answer in this regard.
This is a further reason why there is urgency attached to debate. I say to the Minister of Justice there is a definite erosion of the rule of law. There is a breakdown of the whole moral fibre of the government as far as this matter is concerned, and on this ground I say there is urgency, that there is an emergency, and that this question should be discussed. I think it is more important than the question of redistribution, more important than the flag; because if the rule of law is eroded the fundamental principle of democracy is eroded.
I ask you, Mr. Speaker, to give this motion very careful consideration and to rule in the affirmative.


Before I comment on the question of urgency, let me say this. I assume the Prime Minister has made a serious offer with regard to motion No. 82. I believe, by virtue of his position as leader of the government, he has the opportunity to have this motion moved if the house gives unanimous consent. We are certainly prepared to give that consent.
There is a qualification which I would make. I took it from the Prime Minister's statement that he thought this whole matter of political contributions could be aired in this committee. I suggest the terms of reference would not allow this to be done, nor

would it seem to me a very fruitful field for a parliamentary committee to get into.
As to the question of urgency of debate as it relates to the contributions to Liberal candidates which have recently been revealed, we feel in our party that this is a problem for the government and a problem for parliament. In so far as the facts are concerned, I would say that almost everyone in our group has been aware of this information for some months, and it hardly seems to us that there is the kind of urgency that our friends on the right are putting forward.
We would like to suggest, therefore, that there is not urgency of debate in regard to this matter; although having said that, we feel there is still a problem-and, we think, a moral problem-for all of us in politics in the revelations with regard to these contributions.


Mr. Speaker, the question before the house and for your consideration before making a decision is whether there is urgency of debate respecting the matters that have been raised in the motion moved by the hon. member for Yukon. It seems to me it would be a very useful exercise for a committee of this House of Commons to consider the whole matter of the disclosure of election campaign funds, and I would certainly support that kind of exercise undertaken by a committee of the house. Whether we should single out alleged wrongdoing or misfeasance by accepting this motion, and leave all the other matters out, is another question.
I think, too, we will have to take into consideration that there has already been at least one, and I think more than one, day of debate in this house on the estimates of the Department of Justice, when all the matters that are now included in the motion before the house could have been debated. Whether this matter had been drawn to the attention of the mover and seconder of the motion at that time, I am not sure; but I do believe that all these alleged acts about which hon. members now seem to think there is urgency of debate were in fact known prior to those days when there was debate in this house on those estimates. Therefore in so far as urgency of debate on this particular day is concerned, 1 really do not accept that as a valid argument. We know, for example, that citation 100 of Beauchesne, paragraph 2, says:
The "definite matter of urgent public importance", for the discussion of which the adjoum-20220-629
Motion for Adjournment ment of the house may be moved under standing order 26, must be so pressing that public interest will suffer if it is not given immediate attention.
Well, Mr. Speaker, if that argument is valid today certainly it must also have been valid on those days when the estimates of the Department of Justice were called; and I do not believe that the allegations now made in the motion were aired at that time. I would like to say, in addition, that in so far as this party is concerned, we would like to take into consideration the suggestion of the Prime Minister in asking for unanimous consent to debate item No. 82 on the order paper, when all these matters could be raised. As far as we are concerned we do not see that there is urgency of debate on this particular day with regard to the allegations made.


Mr. Speaker, as far as the adjournment of our business is concerned, the subject of this motion should be important and urgent.
Is the subject important? It certainly is. However, not to the extent of foregoing a whole day's discussion of other bills in order to deal with it. The importance of the debate should be related to the general source of the money made available to the old political parties rather than to the amounts allotted to individual contenders for parliament.
To my mind, it is more important to investigate the source of election funds, not only with regard to the Liberal, but also to the Conservative party, because we might discover some interesting facts on that side too. It might be in order also to find out where the New Democratic party gets its funds because it is said that the labour unions support that party financially and the members of those labour unions might be surprised to find out that they can afford to give large amounts to the Canadian socialists.
As far as we are concerned, Mr. Speaker, our election funds come from the hat passed at election rallies.


Oh, oh.


Now, Mr. Speaker, is such a debate urgent? In my opinion, a debate becomes urgent when those who want to discuss a matter have all the facts. Well, we do not have the facts, all we have is a statement to the effect that some hon. members allegedly received $6,000 from a labour union and that other labour unions allegedly gave other amounts to other people. But we still do not know the names, nor do we know the

Motion for Adjournment facts. This is why I believe the Prime Minister's suggestion to refer this matter to the committee on industrial relations, under order No. 82, would be a generally acceptable solution.
However, I believe there is an even better solution. Yesterday, in reply to a question put by the Leader of the Opposition, the Prime Minister stated that Wednesday, that is tomorrow, we would have the opportunity of discussing a motion for the production of papers; but since the house will not sit tomorrow, and thus debate on the production of these documents will be delayed for eight days, would the Prime Minister be willing to request unanimous consent of the house to vote immediately and without debate on the production of these documents? The members would then have all the documents before them immediately, which would facilitate matters.
Since members of the house are involved, a third method would be to refer everything to the privileges and elections committee, inasmuch as they are being charged with having accepted $1,000 from the S.I.U., and it is because of this electoral contribution that they are now trying to protect Hal Banks. Therefore, the third solution, which would be preferable to a debate on a matter of urgent public importance, would be to refer the matter to the committee on privileges and elections.
Those are three methods which would be preferable to the motion of the hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Nielsen). I feel that it is now the duty of the Prime Minister to take the initiative and decide which one of these three solutions should apply to the problem facing us at the present time.


Order, please. I have to decide whether the motion as presented by the hon. member for Yukon under standing order 26 should be accepted. It is alleged that there is urgency in this matter. It seems to me that mention in the newspapers during the last few days, weeks or even months does not make a matter that much more urgent. It is not made more urgent just because it is mentioned in the newspapers. I do not see that there is that urgency which demands that the business of the house be set aside and this matter be debated at this time. My opinion is confirmed even more if one takes into account item No. 82 on the order paper at the present time, which in any event should


certainly provide an occasion for airing this matter if that is the intention.
It seems to me this matter is more in the nature of a question of privilege, but under standing order 26(6) (e) the motion must not raise a question of privilege. Therefore in my opinion it is faulty on that ground. I must come to the conclusion that there is no real urgency in this question and that opportunity to debate the question in an effective way will be provided in due course. Therefore, with regret, I cannot accept the motion.


May I rise on a question affecting the order of business of the house. Since the Prime Minister has made the offer and since all parties appear to be in agreement, can the house now be asked by unanimous consent to proceed-


Order, please. If the hon. member is raising a question or asking a question at this time he is completely out of order; he must know that.

On the orders of the day;


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the offer made by the Prime Minister and the apparent unanimous agreement of the house in this respect, will the Prime Minister request His Honour to revert to motions or adopt other procedure which would allow the house to proceed forthwith with motion No. 82 on the order paper in order to permit discussion of this whole matter?


Mr. Speaker, if the house agrees unanimously that motion No. 82 should be called now and that it should be passed without debate so the standing committee on industrial relations are empowered to hear the board of trustees, I would be very glad to bring it forward. But I would not bring it forward to have it used by the opposition as an excuse to spend the rest of the day talking about their allegations and charges at the expense of important legislation.


A further supplementary question. Would the Prime Minister personally inquire into the admission of the hon. member for Vancouver-Burrard with respect to the so-called allegations?


Mr. Speaker, I would be very glad to discuss that matter with my hon. friend. I would also be very glad to discuss

with my hon. friend who raised the question the matter of campaign funds in his constituency.


A supplementary question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the house will not be sitting tomorrow, and in view of the fact that the Prime Minister mentioned yesterday that notices of motions for production of papers which are on the order paper would be dealt with on Wednesday, would the Prime Minister now consider approving the production of papers asked for in motion No. 186 today?


Mr. Speaker, that would, of course, be completely out of order. I regret that when I mentioned this matter yesterday I did forget that tomorrow the house will not be sitting. However, this matter will come up a week from tomorrow and can be dealt with then. As it concerns a matter which has been under consideration now for a couple of years, perhaps one week's delay will not be fatal.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder whether the Prime Minister would consider that there are other motions under that heading which might be a little more urgent than this red herring which is being dragged across the trail now.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I do agree with that.


On the orders of the day:
Right Hon. J. G. Diefenbaker (Leader of
the Opposition): Mr. Speaker, I would direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs regarding a speech delivered to the public relations society in Montreal yesterday and the strong warnings the minister gave against those who would impair-and I quote-the "integrity or unity of NATO". Were his warnings and threats, if I could so interpret them, directed against General de Gaulle, or whom did he have in mind when he made the strictures in question?
Mr. Speaker, as I stated last Friday in answer to a question by the right hon. gentleman, there have been some discussions to the effect that because of dif-20220-6291
Inquiries of the Ministry ferences that have arisen nations, or a particular nation, might take a position which would cause a reconsideration of their position in the alliance. I made no reference to any particular country, and I feel that because of discussions which are going on it is better that the question be left in that way.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the minister this question. Has General de Gaulle or the government of the republic of France given any indication that it has in mind withdrawal from NATO? Otherwise for what reason was the speech made?


Mr. Speaker, we have had discussions here last week and there were good reasons for the observation which was made. Since yesterday the prime minister of France, M. Pompidou, has made a statement to the general effect that it was not the intention of France to withdraw from NATO.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister whether, in the light of the indicated crisis in the United Nations as between the United States and the Soviet union over the payment of dues to the United Nations, and in view of the reported crises over membership in NATO, the Kennedy round of talks and the common market, would the Prime Minister consider setting aside one day, or preferably two days, next week for the early discussion of the estimates of the Department of External Affairs so the house can have the benefit of the government's views on these very serious crises which beggar description of Canada's own domestic problems?


Mr. Speaker, it will be possible shortly to call once again the estimates of the Department of External Affairs, and perhaps at that time these very important matters could be considered instead of the presence in Africa of the hon. member for Red Deer.


A supplementary question. I am sure the Prime Minister is fully aware that the Secretary of State for External Affairs was willing the other day to discuss the change in Soviet leadership and the explosion of a nuclear bomb by the Chinese rather than these other problems. Therefore does he not think he is merely drawing a red herring across the trail?

Inquiries of the Ministry REPRESENTATIONS RESPECTING STATUS OF QUEBEC HOUSE IN PARIS
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has Premier Lesage of Quebec informed the federal government that he will be making representations to either General de Gaulle, or other members or officials of the French government relating to the status of Quebec house in France? If so, can the minister inform the house of the nature of the representations Premier Lesage will be making?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of any representations in this particular context. That, of course, would be a matter between the government of France and the government of Canada.


May I ask a supplementary question. Has Premier Lesage informed the minister that he will be making some representations to the French government relating to the status of Quebec house in France?


We have made representations ourselves, and we are carrying on consultations with regard to this matter.


May I rephrase my question. Has Premier Lesage told the minister that he too will be making further representations? This is a simple question that I ask.


You will never get a simple answer.


On the orders of the day:
In view of the welcome announcement of the visit of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to Canada, will the Prime Minister say if there has been any decision about the subjects to be discussed, and in particular will the question come up regarding the recommendation by the Canadian government that the surcharges should be withdrawn at the earliest possible date? Have any representations to that effect been made to the British government as yet, and if so, what has been their reaction thereto?


I was hoping to announce to the house today, in somewhat more detail than was in the press statement, that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom would be visiting Ottawa on December 9. This statement was issued at once because we understood a statement had been issued in Washington and in London. Meanwhile we are trying to ascertain exactly how long he will be here and what will be the opportunity for talks with him. At the moment our information is that he will be here only in the late afternoon and evening and will be returning to London the next morning.
I can give the house at the moment no information on the nature of the talks we will have, since we just completed arrangements this morning for his arrival.


I have not seen the announcement in question, but does this mean that the Prime Minister is going to visit Washington before he comes to Ottawa? Usually it has been the other way around. Second, I would ask the Prime Minister if he would answer my question regarding the surcharges? What representations have been made.


In answer to the first question, the United Kingdom Prime Minister will be coming to Ottawa on this visit after he has visited Washington. It will be very interesting for the government to get from him at first hand the nature of the talks he has had with the United States government.
In reply to the second question, we are in touch with the United Kingdom government on the matter of surcharges, or their emergency economic measures, and have made clear to them our hope that these will be of a temporary character.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the statements which have been made with reference to contributions by trade unions to various political parties and their candidates, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would give consideration to extending the terms of reference of the commission which is being set up to look into the question of election expenses, to give them the necessary
[Mr. Lambert.}

authority to look into the sources of all campaign funds of all political parties in Canada over the past five or ten years.


Mr. Speaker, I will be very glad to do that. I have not before me the terms of reference, but I do recall that those terms refer to "related subjects", and perhaps they are wide enough at present to deal with this matter. However, I will be glad to look into the matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I had a question to put to the Minister of Public Works, but in his absence, I will direct it to the Prime Minister. It has to do with two or three complaints I received quite recently, that is today at 11.15 a.m., to the effect that when we make long distance calls in parliament, it is impossible to find French speaking operators, or they refuse to speak French.
Would the Prime Minister check this fact and correct the situation as soon as possible?


I will be glad to look into it, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I deal with a question which was raised yesterday and previously, and make a statement about parole in the cases of commuted death sentences both in regard to what is known as the Meeker case and in the wider context of such cases generally.
I can now inform the house that the government proposes to take steps for the enactment of a regulation under the Parole Act which will have the effect of providing that every person who is serving a sentence of imprisonment, to which a sentence of death has been commuted, shall in no case be released on parole without the prior approval of the governor in council. This will have the effect of giving general application to the restriction which, under section 656 of the Criminal Code, may now be imposed on a case to case basis.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a supplementary question arising out of that statement. Does the Prime Minister not think that is putting a heavy responsibility directly on the executive?


Mr. Speaker, that responsibility is now already put on the executive when it passes an order in council commuting a death sentence.


Mr. Speaker, I know it is not quite proper to mention this, but observations were made by the Prime Minister which went quite beyond what would have been proper under the circumstances. Does the Prime Minister not think this is a matter which should be looked into more carefully in order to assure the Canadian people that those who are dangerous and will continue to be so are not released, and that the action taken in the Meeker case will not be carried forward to cover all cases? I think the Prime Minister will agree there is nothing heavier than the responsibility which rests on the governor in council in murder cases. Making the rules so wide in order to cover a case which has attracted national attention I think is going pretty far.
I wonder whether he would reconsider that, because he is going a very long way beyond anything that has been contemplated before, and I am saying this in a spirit of helpfulness because I know of the difficulties.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate what the right hon. gentleman has said, but I do not think, in view of the circumstances surrounding these cases and the seriousness of the matter involved-nothing could be more serious, or impose greater responsibility on the executive, as my right hon. friend is aware-we are going further than is desirable in the regulation which I have just mentioned. I assure my right hon. friend that we have spent a good many days since the development of this situation, and have had a great many consultations, in order to convince ourselves that this is the proper step to take under the circumstances.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the

Inquiries of the Ministry Minister of Labour. Could he report on the meeting he had yesterday with the presidents of the International Longshoremen's Union of Montreal, Messrs. Asselin and Tremblay, and could he tell us whether they have agreed to reinstate in their ranks those who had been expelled because they wanted to join another union?
Could he tell us also whether the presidents of the International Longshoremen's Union have agreed to respect in the future the freedom of workers to belong to the trade union of their choice?


Mr. Speaker, the main question we discussed yesterday, which was an urgent question, was related to the resumption of operations at the three river ports. As a result of arrangements entered into with the longshoremen, work has resumed today. I hope it will be possible through the offices of the Department of Labour to set up meetings between the shipping federation and the longshoremen to settle the problem that occasioned this walk-out. As I promised yesterday in reply to the questions addressed to me by the hon. member for Lapointe, I drew his questions and comments to the attention of the delegation who were present in the gallery, and I asked them whether they had heard the questions and comments of the hon. member. That delegation assured me that they had listened to the questions and comments.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question.
Did the minister get a favourable reply from the union leaders, the labour leaders, respecting the employees who were ousted from their union? Did he exert pressure on the chairmen of the union so that those workers might be taken back into the fold?


Mr. Speaker, I did not
make representations to the union officers with respect to a matter which is dealt with under the constitution of the union and for which there are several recourses, as I understand the situation, open to the members affected. I explained this in the house some weeks ago. I felt that I had gone as far as it was appropriate for me to go in drawing those representations to the attention of that delegation.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Labour, asking him whether he has received any assurance from the shipping federation that it is prepared to change its attitude in respect of negotiating the pension plan which was recommended by Judge Lippe?


Mr. Speaker, I addressed messages yesterday to the president of the shipping federation of Canada, and to Mr. Gleason of the international longshoremen, suggesting that a meeting be held at an early date to discuss these questions. It is my expectation that the shipping federation, in accordance with the proposals they advanced yesterday, will be ready to undertake in good faith negotiations or discussions in respect of these questions.


Will there be any conciliation officers of the Department of Labour present at these discussions?


Mr. Speaker, I have asked Mr. Poirier and Mr. McRae, both officers in Montreal, to assist in these discussions.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question.
Did the representatives of the international longshorem