I have the honour to present, in English and in French, the fifth report of the special committee on procedure and organization.


Mr. Speaker, may I give notice, on behalf of the committee, that concurrence in this report will be moved on Thursday. All it does is propose that certain rules and recommendations now in effect be continued for a further trial period.


Mr. H. C. Harley (Halton) presented the second report of the special committee on food and drugs, and moved that the report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
the first reading of Bill No. S-17 (from the Senate), respecting the territorial sea and fishing zones of Canada.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the order: Government notice of motion:
May 14-The Secretary of State-The following proposed motion:-That the reports of the Canada Council for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1962 and March 31, 1963, tabled on October 10, 1962 and on July 11, 1963 respectively, be referred to the standing committee on public accounts in order to provide for a review thereof pursuant to section 23 of the Canada Council Act.
Pursuant to section 2 of standing order 21 this government notice of motion is transferred to and ordered for consideration under government orders at the next sitting of the house.


On the order: Government notice of motion:
May 14-The Minister of Finance-The following proposed motion:-That the public accounts, volumes I, II and III for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1962 and March 31, 1963, and the reports of the Auditor General thereon, tabled on January 21, 1963 and on February 19, 1964 respectively, together with the financial statements of the Canada Council for the fiscal years ended March 31, 1962 and March 31, 1963 and the reports of the Auditor General thereon, tabled on October 10, 1962 and on July 11, 1963 respectively, be referred to the standing committee on public accounts.
Pursuant to section 2 of standing order 21 this government notice of motion is transferred to and ordered for consideration under government orders at the next sitting of the house.


On the order: Government notices of motion:
May 14-The Minister of Labour-The following proposed motion:-That it is expedient that the houses of parliament do approve of convention No. Ill concerning discrimination in respect of employment and occupation, which was adopted by the international labour conference on the 25th of June, 1958, and that this house do approve the same.
Pursuant to section 2 of standing order 21 this government notice of motion is transferred to and ordered for consideration under government orders at the next sitting of the house.


that the house go into committee of the whole at the next sitting to consider the following resolution, which has been recommended to the house by His Excellency:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to provide for the retirement, upon attaining the age of seventy five years, of any person appointed to the Senate after the coming into force of the said measure: to extend the provisions of the Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances Act to such persons; to provide for the granting of an annuity to any person appointed to the Senate

Inquiries of the Ministry before the coming into force of the said measure who resigns his place in the Senate after having attained the age of 75 years or having become afflicted with a permanent infirmity disabling him from the performance of his duties; and to provide further for the granting of an annuity to the widow of a person who was granted such an annuity upon resigning his place in the Senate.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, now that he has returned to Ottawa from the fields of prophecy, whether he would tell the house why the announcement as to the alternative designs he had in mind was not made in the House of Commons. Second, are these designs his own particular persuasion or have they been submitted to the cabinet? There are other questions that naturally arise, but I will commence with those two.


Mr. Speaker, in my statement to the Royal Canadian Legion on Sunday night the only reference I made to the design of a Canadian flag was as follows:
I believe most sincerely It is time now for Canadians to unfurl a flag that is truly distinctive and truly national in character-


Hear, hear.


-and as Canadian as the maple leaf which should be its dominant design.
How the maple leaf is to be reflected in the design, which will be brought before parliament in due course, remains for decision.


Now may I refer to the press conference which was to explain what up to that moment had been inexplicable. I ask the Prime Minister this. Did he place before the press conference two designs? Did he express a preference for one or the other and, if so, has either of those designs been considered by the cabinet, or are they simply an emanation of his own desire to bring about an even greater disunity in Canada than he has succeeded in doing thus far.


Oh, oh.


My purpose in the pursuit of this policy, contrary to what the right hon. gentleman has said, is to bring about a greater degree of unity in Canada.


Hear, hear.
(Mr. MacNaught).]


In that objective I hope-I am sure-I will get the support of the right hon. gentleman and of every other hon. member of the house, though we may differ as to the means by which that objective can be achieved.
As far as the press conference is concerned, the press asked me whether we had made any decision about this maple leaf design and I said no final decision had been made. I showed the press some of the great many designs which have been submitted to the government, especially three to which I was attracted, but no decision has been made as to the design which will be put before the house. The cabinet has been discussing the matter this morning and as soon as a decision has been made, and it is possible to do so, we shall put our policy in all its details in the form of a resolution and submit it to the House of Commons.


With the objective which the right hon. gentleman says he has in mind I am in agreement. But I am certainly in disagreement when he says that what he is doing will do other than work division.


Order.


I now ask this. Will the Prime Minister table these several designs which he placed before the press conference, or referred to there, in order that parliament may have at least as much information on this matter as outsiders have?


As I believe I have stated, a great many designs have been received. In a short time-in a very short time-I hope the government will have made a decision with regard to a particular design, and this design will be placed before parliament for the decision of parliament in this matter.


The question I asked was whether these three designs would be tabled-


Order.


Is there not a degree of unity across the way yet as to which it should be? They cannot agree among themselves, and I can understand why they cannot agree anywhere else. I ask the Prime Minister this. How is the design which is ultimately determined upon to be presented to the house? Will it be by resolution or by bill, or does the same degree of disunity in the thinking of the government exist in this regard as in so many other matters?


Listen.


I am happy to inform the right hon. gentleman that there is a very great degree of unity in the party I have

the honour to lead. For the sake of the country I hope there will be the same degree of unity among hon. gentlemen opposite. I have received, personally, dozens and dozens of designs. I do not think it would be appropriate or desirable to table one or two of those designs. In due course, and it will not be long now, the design the government has agreed on will be submitted to the House of Commons for decision.


May I point out that the Winnipeg Tribune shows two designs and states-


Order.


-that the blue border flag was the favourite of the Prime Minister. I ask him, will he place on the table of the house these two flags, the designs of which he put before the press conference; or is he going to continue to deny parliament its rights?


Mr. Speaker, I do not intend to deny parliament its rights. This is the first time, in Canadian parliamentary history, I believe, that a matter of this kind has not been decided by order in council.


Hear, hear.


That is accurate, Mr. Speaker. We are going to refer to this parliament for its decision a design which the government, discharging its own responsibility, has seen fit to put before parliament as a design suitable for submission and, we hope, for decision.


Mr. Speaker, does the statement of the right hon. Prime Minister mean that the government will accept responsibility for the design which it is going to bring before parliament?


Yes, Mr. Speaker; as the government has accepted now for a good many months-indeed, for two years-the policy
which will be embodied in that design.


I was not speaking of the policy; I was speaking of the design. Let us not evade the question any longer. We are now told that the government is going to put a design before parliament. Does the government accept responsibility for it?


I do not intend to evade the question, Mr. Speaker. The government will indeed take responsibility for the design which it submits to the House of Commons.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister how he reconciles his statement to the house on Friday, that the matter of the design of the flag would be open to a free vote, with his statement to the press conference in Winnipeg that
Inquiries of the Ministry the government would resign if the proposal it made to parliament was turned down?


Answer that.


I want to ask the Prime Minister whether he considers a free vote to be one in which the members have an election pointed at their heads like a gun.


Mr. Speaker, the members have had an election pointed at their heads like a gun in respect of every decision that has been made in this house on policy matters since we took over the government. I have pointed out, and I think I should make it quite clear, that when the government submits to parliament a matter of policy-and this is certainly a matter of policy-the government must stand or fall on the result of the decision of the house. But we have gone out of our way, and I have gone out of my way personally, to let the members of this party know that in a question so personal, so close to their conscience, so deep in their emotions, as a flag, a member of the Liberal party, in voting against the design submitted by the government, would not be read out of the party for so doing.


I take it, Mr. Speaker, we are not to have a free vote.


That's right.


Could I ask the Prime Minister whether he would agree that it would be common courtesy to parliament, instead of peddling various designs around the country, if these designs were submitted to a parliamentary committee-


Oh, oh.


-where they could be given full examination.


Mr. Speaker, I do not accept
the suggestion that designs have been peddled around the country, and I would remind my hon. friend that when this issue was before parliament some years ago designs were submitted to a committee, some 1,700 were received, and no action of any kind was taken.


An order in council was made.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker-


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I had not finished the point I was making.


Order, please. The hon. member for Ontario was on his feet for at least a minute before the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam.

Inquiries of the Ministry


A supplementary question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. In view of what he has said, and in view of the howling from the Liberal benches today to questions on this matter, is it the intention of the government to pick a design and then ram it down the throat of parliament and the people of this country?


Shame.


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Prime Minister whether it is not true that the committee to which he referred, which was chaired by the Secretary of State for External Affairs, did make a recommendation and that the government of that day, which was a Liberal government, did not act upon it?


Mr. Speaker, it took that committee a very long time indeed to come to any decision in regard to a design because of the number of designs submitted. If we set up a committee for this particular purpose I am afraid that action would be postponed indefinitely, and we desire to take our responsibility in this matter as a government, which we indicated in two election campaigns we would be happy to be able to do.


A supplementary question to the Prime Minister. I wonder whether the Prime Minister could indicate to parliament some of the dates he has in mind. That is to say, would he like to comment on whether he could accomplish all the steps which are needed to be able to submit a design to parliament before July 1?


Mr. Speaker, I think it would be very difficult to do this on the orders of the day, but we could have a supply motion next Monday, and if hon. gentlemen opposite are critical of the procedure of the government in this matter they could move a vote of no confidence on this question and that would give the house an opportunity to debate it fully.


Would there be a free vote on that too?


I hope my right hon. friend, who feels so deeply in this matter, will take advantage of the opportunity of a supply motion next week.


In view of the fact that the Prime Minister has decided to bring in a red herring, may I ask him this. Will this motion on Monday next, this amendment, be a free vote?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot, of course, tell my hon. friend the form of the motion that he should produce; but if he

produces a motion condemning the action of the government in this matter he can draw his own conclusions.


Mr. Speaker, may I put a question to the Prime Minister?
Does the Prime Minister not think it would be a good thing for the government to invite Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, during her visit to Canada, to come and raise on the mast of the parliament buildings the flag which the Canadian people will give itself this coming summer, in order to dampen the extremist ideas of both groups?


Well, Mr. Speaker, the present plans for the royal visit to Canada include a visit to Charlottetown and Quebec. I do not think it would be desirable to change those plans at this time; nor do I think it would be possible to do so even for the purpose to which my hon. friend refers.


Mr. Speaker, as the Prime Minister has brought up this question in answer to a question, may I ask him this. Is it not a fact that under our parliamentary system of government, whatever the Prime Minister recommends to the crown or to the representative of the crown in Canada must be accepted?


Mr. Speaker, I am not a constitutional expert like my hon. friend-


I appreciate that.


-but I think his statement is strictly accurate. I do agree, and I am sure he will too, that there are certain royal prerogatives which even as a matter of courtesy should be taken into consideration in these matters.


But does the Prime Minister realize that this is not one of the royal prerogatives which still remains unused, even though usable?


I agree with my right hon. friend that this is not one of the active royal prerogatives; I was talking of taking royal prerogatives into consideration as a matter of courtesy in these matters.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister. I should like to ask him whether, in line with the current public interest in the flag question, the government would consider, before bringing in a design to parliament, first of all giving the people of Canada a free vote on this question through a plebiscite at the next federal election,

worked along the lines: "Do you favour the red ensign or a distinctive Canadian flag?"


Mr. Speaker, I am grateful to my hon. friend for having given me notice of his question, and I realize its importance. In a sense every election is a free vote, and in a sense this particular policy was part of the last two election campaigns. It certainly was part of the policy of the party which now forms the government. But I do not think it would serve any useful purpose to have a national referendum at an indeterminate date on this matter. I think it would be better for the government to take its responsibility in the matter by submitting a particular proposal to parliament and then letting the members of parliament, as the representatives of the people, decide it.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Could the Prime Minister inform the house whether the government intends to tie in the anthem "O Canada" with the bill concerning the adoption of a distinctive flag, so that this anthem may get official recognition at the same time as the distinctive flag?


Mr. Speaker, this government is also committed to the policy of asking parliament to approve officially of "O Canada" as the national anthem and I think it should be done during this session of parliament.


Mr. Speaker, in all temerity and humility may I address a question to the Prime Minister, and perhaps through him to all members. Important as the flag issue may be, are not the conditions of the people and the country over which that flag flies more important? As the matter of the flag will come up for debate officially at a future time, can we not now get down to the bread and butter business of the people, the business of parliament?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister which is closely related to the previous question. My question arises from the dominion bureau of statistics release on Friday last indicating that the cost of living in Canada has gone up 2.7 points in the 20220-212
Inquiries of the Ministry last year. Has the government taken action to deal with this alarming increase, the greatest in five years?


Order. Would the hon. member put that question on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, may I give notice that I wish to debate this matter at ten o'clock tonight.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Prime Minister but on a different subject. Does the Prime Minister favour the proposal that a summit meeting on the Passamaquoddy project be held at Campobello in June between himself and the President of the United States? If so, will he say whether the government will initiate such a meeting?


Mr. Speaker, this is the first time this matter has been brought to my attention in the terms referred to by my hon. friend. I will be glad to take this matter under consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is also to the Prime Minister but it is not of a provocative character. With reference to my previous question pertaining to the naming of the veterans home in Saskatoon after the late Harry F. Jones, can the Prime Minister now inform the house whether a decision has been made on this matter and, if so, what will be the official designation of this veterans home


Mr. Speaker, we have been in touch with the mayor and municipal council of Saskatoon, and after receiving a report from them confirming a previous somewhat informal approach, the Minister of Veterans Affairs and I discussed the matter and decided it would be, we thought, a well deserved and worthy tribute to the late member for Saskatoon if the veterans home in Saskatoon were named after him and called the Harry F. Jones memorial veterans hospital. Although I speak subject to correction, I think a notice has gone to Saskatoon from the minister to that effect.

Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Veterans Affairs but in his absence I will direct it to the Prime Minister. It concerns the statement made yesterday at the Royal Canadian Legion convention in Winnipeg by the Minister of Veterans Affairs that before any veterans hospitals are transferred from federal to provincial or local control there will be consultation with the veterans organizations. Will the Prime Minister assure the more than one million veterans of this country that if the veterans organizations do not concur following consultation with them, no transfers of veterans hospitals will be made?


Mr. Speaker, I will be glad to discuss that question with the minister and give the hon. gentleman a reply. I think the minister will be back tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, as the Secretary of State for External Affairs has returned from his trip to the NATO council meeting at The Hague I should like to ask him whether any decisions or developments took place at that meeting which would affect Canada's military or political contribution in NATO.


Mr. Speaker, the answer to that question as phrased is yes. I would propose that an opportunity be given at the earliest possible moment when a full report on this meeting might be made to the house. The acting house leader is arranging with the other parties, I believe, for discussion of the external affairs estimates on Friday, when I would hope to have the opportunity of making the report in which my hon. friend is interested.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether any decision was reached with reference to a multilateral nuclear force, and whether Canada made any commitment in this regard.


There were no decisions with regard to the multilateral force, which is a proposal made not by NATO

but by the United States. There was no discussion of this particular project as such.


A further supplementary
question, Mr. Speaker. Are any of the NATO countries supplying weapons to Portugal for use in Angola, where I understand wholesale massacres are taking place; and are any Canadian weapons being supplied to Portugal which could be used for this lamentable purpose?


Mr. Speaker, Portugal is a member of NATO, and whatever assistance is given to that country by Canada is only in respect of her obligations as a member of NATO. Whatever assistance is given is on the distinct understanding that it is not for the kind of venture to which my hon. friend directs my attention.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Is he in a position to indicate in any way the government's attitude or actions in respect of the situation in Laos, where there is considerable Canadian involvement?


Mr. Speaker, the situation in Laos has taken a serious turn. Over the week end there have been discussions among the countries represented on the truce commission, Canada, Poland and India, and there have been discussions with the United States and the United Kingdom.
I can only say that I regret to tell the house that in respect of the functions of the commission, the Polish delegate has not cooperated in the endeavours of the commission in recent weeks. I have therefore made representations to the Polish government urging it to assist in the maintenance of stability in Laos by fulfilling the obligations which they, together with Canada and India, undertook when the Geneva agreements were signed in 1962.


In what particular has the situation deteriorated in Laos as a result of the failure of Poland to discharge its share of the duties of the commission?


Mr. Speaker, I do not believe I said the situation had deteriorated because of the reluctance of the Polish member of the commission. The situation has deteriorated because the neutralists and the forces of the right are being actively pursued by the Pathet Lao. The refusal of the Polish delegate to agree to inspection in

certain areas of Laos constitutes, in the judgment of the Canadian government, a failure to fully comply with the undertaking given in the agreement of 1962.


If there had been compliance on the part of the Polish representative, what has the minister to say as to whether the present condition would be as it is?


I do not believe I can answer that, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister.
In view of the fact that, during the week end the Knights of Columbus gathered at a convention requested that Canada appoint an ambassador to the Vatican, is it the government's intention to consider that matter so that this year an ambassador be appointed to the Vatican?


This matter has been under consideration during the last year, and it was under consideration for the five years previous.


Yes, and the flag was, too.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources.
Could he tell us whether discussions are still going on between his department and Quebec authorities with a view to handing over the administration of Eskimo affairs to the Quebec government?
Could he also tell us what progress has been made in the negotiations and when will the administration of Eskimo affairs be transferred to Quebec authorities?


Order. This question, while very important, requires a detailed answer. May I suggest that it be put on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, may I give notice that I wish to discuss this matter on adjournment tonight?
20220-212i
Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. Has the minister recently conferred in Ottawa with the mayor of Vancouver regarding the early transfer to his city of land now occupied by the army at Jericho Beach? If so, what were the results of the discussions?


May I suggest that this is a question for the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
I had a question for the Minister of Justice, but perhaps I may direct it to the Minister of Finance. My question arises from a recent release indicating that 3,678 businesses in Canada went bankrupt last year, an increase of 15 per cent. Has the minister caused inquiries to be made as to the causes for this increase in bankruptcies?


I shall be glad to consult with the Minister of Justice on his return tomorrow or the next day.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Minister of Transport if he has received a telegram from the mayor of the town of Westville requesting his support in connection with the proposed removal of the Canadian National agent from the station in that community, thus placing it on a caretaker basis. If so, would the minister request the board of transport commissioners to postpone such action until the legislation standing on the order paper in the name of the minister is passed by this house?


Would the hon. member put this question on the order paper.


I give notice I wish to debate this matter at ten o'clock.


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister of Northern

Income Tax Act
Affairs and National Resources, Mr. Speaker. In view of the urgent demands arising from *Canada's expanding tourist industry and the increasing recreational needs of our own people, can the minister inform the house when action will be taken to implement the recreational parks program endorsed by the house last June 26?


It seems to me that this is certainly a question for the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to address a question to the Prime Minister on a subject which, I assure him, is much more important in the minds of the people of the Alberni valley at the moment than the question of a new Canadian flag.
I should like to ask the minister whether, in the course of his meditations during his quiet week end, he was able to give reconsideration to the question of the size of the federal government's grant to the disaster fund and to come up with a suitable answer to that question.


Mr. Speaker, it seems to me and to the government, having regard to the measure of the damage-and I do not depreciate that- and having regard to the responsibilities of the provincial government and the resources of the provincial government, that the federal contribution of a quarter of a million dollars is fair in the circumstances, and is in accord with the principles which have been followed in the past.


The house resumed, from Thursday, May 14, consideration in committee of Bill No. C-91, to amend the Income Tax Act-Mr. Gordon-Mr. Lamoureux in the chair.
On clause 8.
Mr. Chairman, it was suggested by some hon. members last year, and particularly I think by the hon. member for Edmonton West, that this particular provision should be made a permanent part of the act instead of an annual enactment in the bill from year to year. I wish to assure hon. members that this suggestion was very carefully considered. However, other legislation affecting special allowances for children will be proposed this year, and until it is put in final form it would not be known exactly how a permanent provision for this act should

be drafted, or whether such a provision will be necessary after 1964.
In these circumstances it seemed better to continue the annual provision in its usual form for at least one more year. I wish to assure hon. members of the committee that this matter has been very carefully considered, and I for one think as soon as the time is appropriate it should be incorporated in the act permanently.


The other day the minister announced that he was withdrawing two or three of the sections having to do with family allowances. Is he proposing to give reconsideration to this particular annual re-enactment at that time, or a year hence?


The provision dealing with the extension of the principle of family allowances will be incorporated in a special bill to be presented, I hope, in the very near future. I am suggesting it would be better to extend this particular provision for one year, and I hope by that time we can incorporate it in the act finally.


Clause agreed to.
On clause 9.
Is the minister going to make a further statement with regard to clause 9, which increases the abatement by the additional 2 per cent? He intimated, I think during his budget speech, what this might cost the treasury, and I wondered if he could amplify the situation with regard to this proposal at this time.


In the full calendar year 1965, including equalization, the extra two percentage points will amount to somewhere around $65 million.


Mr. Chairman, the other night I posed a question to the minister, and I think this is the proper clause on which to mention it again. Under the abatements arrangements some provinces have different charges from others, and I am wondering what the minister's reaction is to my question.


I can assure my hon. friend that I did not overlook it. I have not examined all its implications with my officials, and I would like to defer taking any action on what, on the face of it, is a very interesting and sensible proposal until the full question has been investigated.


Following the dominion-provincial conference the Prime Minister announced that a committee was being set up, representative of the ten provinces and the federal government, to deal with the reapportionment of tax revenues vis-a-vis the

Canadian government and the provinces. Following that announcement we now have this legislation brought before us, which increases the abatement given to provinces over a period of two successive years. I am not quarreling with this at the moment, although it is a matter which could be debated one way or the other. However, I am wondering whether the committee has been constituted and what it will be doing in this connection.
Further, in view of the fact that the Carter commission has been working for a long time on the matter of taxation, and that the minister hopes it will be reporting before the end of the year, it is desirable to discuss what action should be taken in this direction at this time. It may be that neither the minister nor anyone else knows what the royal commission will recommend, but that commission may be making extensive recommendations vis-avis changes in the Income Tax Act. I would like the minister to speak for a moment or two on the situation respecting the committee which was announced by the Prime Minister.
Has the committee been constituted? Is it carrying on an investigation at the moment? What is expected to flow therefrom? Following the announcement regarding the setting up of this committee, why has this rather drastic action been taken of making a change in the middle of the golf course?


I am not sure about the simile about making changes in the middle of the golf course.


In the bunker.


I don't think anybody found themselves in a bunker or even lost their ball in the rough. As hon. members know, this proposal to increase the abatement to the provinces was made at the time agreement was reached upon a uniform Canada pension plan. At the time this announcement was made the so-called tax structure committee was proposed. I do not know if that is the name which will eventually be used for it, but it is the name that has been used so far. The committee has not yet been set up, although it is the intention of the government to go ahead with the idea.
The committee will include representatives of the provincial governments and of the federal government, and I mean representatives at the cabinet level. It will review the whole question of tax fields and the shares that are available to the federal and provincial governments respectively. I think my hon. friends will agree that this does not come within the terms of reference of the royal commission on taxation.
It was understood, when this tax structure committee was being discussed, that its
Income Tax Act
members, before they reached any final conclusions, would have the benefit of the reports of the royal commission on taxation, as well as the reports of certain provincial royal commissions on taxation, especially the ones in Ontario, Quebec and one of the prairie provinces.
Major changes that might be contemplated in the tax structure of the country will obviously be taken into account by the tax structure committee in trying to arrive at suitable divisions of responsibility, suitable divisions of tax fields as between the federal and provincial governments. In the meantime this proposal that is incorporated in clause 9 has been very well received by the provinces.


Naturally. Did you ever see anybody kick about getting money?


I can only repeat that it seems to have been very well received not only by the provinces, but enthusiastically by hon. gentlemen opposite. I certainly did not notice any objection to this.


Was it as enthusiastically received by the Minister of Finance?


I will let that question pass, Mr. Chairman. I have nothing more to say.


As I understand it, the 21 per cent of the basic tax in respect of the 1965 tax year applies to the calendar year.


That is right.


I also understand this first increase from 19 per cent to 21 per cent is going to cost something like $65 million, and the increase from 20 per cent to 24 per cent in the 1966 tax year is going to cost something like an additional $135 million, so that in round figures by the 1966 tax year the provinces will be receiving something like an extra $200 million. Can the minister give us any breakdown as to how this will affect the government's fiscal period? In other words, what is going to be the extra amounts for the years ending March 31, 1965 and March 31, 1966? How much additional money will have to be raised in taxes, or by how much will this increase the deficit?


This year's figures, for the year ending March 31, 1965, will be affected by approximately $6 million because while it is $60 million to $65 million for a full 12 months, the dates when the collections are received make a big difference as to the amount which will fall into this calendar year. The calendar year 1965-66 will be affected, as closely as can be estimated, by about $68 million and the calendar year 1966-67-and here the calculation becomes

Income Tax Act
much more difficult-would be affected to the extent of about $145 million or $150 million.


Since the minister is dealing with estimates, 1 should like to ask him a question which will certainly require an estimate. He has referred to the fact that these abatements have been part and parcel of arrangements made vis-a-vis the proposed pension plan. Is the hon. gentleman in a position to say what will be the effect of a pension act on the floor upon which national revenue taxes are imposed? I presume that contributions made to the pension scheme will be deductible for income tax purposes. Millions of Canadian taxpayers will, I take it, be making contributions to the scheme and as a result the tax base will be reduced by so many millions of dollars. The minister has just told us how the abatements will affect his revenue. I wonder if the hon. gentleman is now in a position to advise the committee what the impact of the pension scheme is likely to be upon income tax collections? I realize this is likely to be difficult, but at the same time I assume intensive studies are being made in this field by officials in the Department of Finance and in the Department of National Revenue, whose ability in these matters is well known to me.


I will do my best to answer this question. As the hon. gentleman knows, officials in both the Department of Finance and the Department of National Revenue are very loath to speculate in the unknown fields of the future. Unquestionably these contributions will be deductible for tax purposes, so on the face of it tax revenues receivable will be reduced correspondingly. On the other hand, the funds paid into the Canada pension plan will be invested and those investments will be put to productive use. This in turn will generate greater activity in the economy, so it is quite possible that in the long run revenues will be increased rather than diminished.
I am not in a position to give a specific answer to the hon. gentleman today. In any case, it will depend on the date on which deductions are to begin. The government is anxious that this should take place as soon as possible in order that the pension plan may go into operation at the earliest possible date, but we have to wait until the legislation is before the house; until it has been passed by the house. In the meantime I think it would be unwise, even if it were possible, to speculate about the exact effects upon any one year's budgetary receipts.


Mr. Chairman, section 8 of the legislation now before us, contains-


Order.


I am sorry; section 9 which is now under consideration contains an amendment which, it seems to us, is of great consequence. I am not speaking of the amendment made but of the provisions which are not changed.
Hon. members will remember that approximately 13 months ago, the Quebec government delivered an official ultimatum to the federal government, claiming 25 per cent of the individual income tax, 25 per cent of the corporation tax and 100 per cent of the estate tax. Since then, there has been some change concerning the estate tax. The provinces now get 75 per cent of such revenues instead of the 100 per cent which were requested. However, nothing has been done yet with respect to corporation income tax.
Under section 9, the federal government will give the provinces 21 per cent of the tax in 1965, that is one year from now, and 24 per cent in 1966, two years hence, whereas Quebec asked for a minimum of 25 per cent immediately. Therefore, the federal government is taking a heavy responsibility upon itself by retaining those taxation fields which the provinces want and are entitled to.
It must not be forgotten that direct taxation was the prerogative of the provinces and that the latter rented and lent those fields to the federal government so that it could cope with the emergency situation which arose during the last war. Now, the war has been over for 20 years and the federal government still controls direct sources of taxation which, in effect, should come under each provincial government.
In view of the restlessness existing in the province of Quebec, as well as in other provinces which also insist on their rights, a small 2 per cent increase was granted, bringing the abatement to 21 per cent in 1965 and 24 per cent in 1966. Mr. Speaker, I contend that it is not enough, that the requests from the ten Canadian provinces or, at least, from several provinces, insisting on an immediate 25 per cent, should have been granted immediately. Furthermore, the income tax percentage should be raised still higher, within a short time, and brought up to 100 per cent.
Mr. Chairman, clause 9 which is now under discussion is the main problem. It also touches a sore point, because the claims put forward by the provinces and by the Quebec citizens, indeed create a difficult problem.
Over the week end, there was great excitement everywhere especially in Winnipeg- and I want to commend the Prime Minister for his courageous stand on that occasion, when he was not afraid clearly to present

the case for a distinctive national flag for Canada. While there was much excitement in Winnipeg, the same situation prevailed in various places in the province of Quebec, in Montreal, St. Lazare and other localities. A bomb was even placed under Victoria bridge.
Everything hinges on the following point: should the federal government centralize everything or award a greater autonomy, or even full autonomy, to the provinces? That is the core of the matter, which summarizes everything. What the province of Quebec wants is fully and completely to recover all its direct taxation sources. Quebec has begun to express its views strongly, and I can assure you that the adoption of a distinctive national flag will not be enough to satisfy Quebec.
A distinctive flag is only an outward sign. The roots of the evil lie deeper; they are to be found in the fact that French Canadians want an autonomous state which will be able to administer itself and, therefore Quebec must recover its sources of taxation. And when Quebec has recovered its sources of taxation, it will be possible to have an agreement between the governments of Ottawa and Quebec. But as long as that is not a fact, and more particularly, as long as the taxation sources are not handed back to the province, the agitation will continue, and the province of Quebec will never be satisfied.
What is needed is amend clause 9 of the bill before us in order to give back to Quebec 100 per cent of what it has been claiming for a long time. That is the main problem at this time.
Shall we simply go on making fine speeches about national unity? Shall we go on making fine speeches on Canadian nationalism in the face of the clear requirements of Quebec in matters of fiscal autonomy?
Mr. Chairman, as we are now dealing with the taxation field, I shall refrain from mentioning other clauses and only discuss fiscal autonomy, as this is the point under consideration.
Quebec wants to recover its taxation sources, and I think that the federal government would be well advised to adopt a plan which would give back to the province of Quebec the sources of revenue it needs to develop from a cultural, political, economical and social point of view before it is too late.
Quebec needs its sources of revenue, and the central government should work out a plan to remit to the province 25 per cent of its direct and indirect taxation sources this year, 50 per cent next year, 75 per cent in two years, and 100 per cent in 1967. There, Mr. Chairman, is one of the formulas which
Income Tax Act
might make it possible for the agreement to survive in Canada. When what divides us is divided, we shall be better able to agree wherever agreement is possible.
The problem of fiscal distribution is a continual source of division between the federal and the provincial governments. Therefore, why not remit to the province of Quebec the sources of revenue to which it is entitled under the 1867 constitution? It is because the latter has been violated too many times that it is less acceptable today. It is because the provisions, too often, were broken-


Order. I venture to interrupt the hon. member to point out that while the comments he is making are extremely interesting, they are not quite relevant to the clause under discussion. I do not think that under the circumstances, he is free to make general statements on national unity or fiscal autonomy to which he made reference.
The hon. member knows that at the committee stage, we must strictly limit our remarks to the clause under discussion, and I suggest that he should limit his observations to the very specific points now before us.


On the point of order, Mr. Chairman, I think that when the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Pearson) introduced the amendments in the house, he said they were for the purpose of strengthening national unity, and that is why I think the remarks of the hon. member for Lapointe are quite to the point.


Without wishing to enter into a discussion with the hon. member for Pontiac-Temiseamingue, even if the right hon. Prime Minister made those comments, I am sure he did not intend to encourage the members of the committee to make speeches dealing with policy statements on every clause submitted to the committee.
Such comments might be relevant on clause 1, but I doubt that they are on clause 9 which is now under discussion.


Mr. Chairman, I thank you for having said that my remarks were very interesting. I am sure they will be interesting indeed for the future.
However, I am surprised that you should call me to order on that, because the previous legislation provided that 19 per cent of the basic tax would be turned over to Quebec in 1965 and 21 per cent in 1966. And now, that is being changed to 21 and 24 per cent. Why? Surely, we must analyze the reasons why that is being done. It is because Quebec requested it. Once the reason is known, the problem can be studied. And now we know the reason for those changes. They are the

Income Tax Act
result of the continuous and strong requests not only of the provincial government but also and especially of the Quebec members who sit in this house, as well as those of the Quebec people. We now know the whys and wherefores. And why are those changes to clause 9 substituted for the amendment which had been provided in I960, I believe? Why will 21 per cent of the basic tax be deducted in 1965, instead of 19 per cent, and 24 per cent instead of 21 per cent in 1966? It is in order to try to give to the provinces a larger source of revenue, so that they may be in a better position to develop from the economic and cultural standpoints.
It is also because it has been recognized that the provinces have priority requirements. If the act as it existed before has been amended, it is because it was recognized that Quebec has priority needs. By this change, it is recognized that provincial governments have priority needs, and the federal government states that these needs-


Order.


Mr. Chairman, I do not understand at all the interruptions of the hon. member for Drummond-Arthabaska (Mr. Pepin). If he has something to say or a question to put, let him stand up and I will be pleased to answer him. But he is too far for me to hear what he has to say at this time.
So, Mr. Chairman, if changes were made, it is because one thing became clear; this amendment to the act acknowledges the priority needs of the provinces, and especially those of the province of Quebec.
However, Mr. Chairman, I must add that the changes made at this time are not sufficient. It is too little, and much too little. What should be done, is to give back 100 per cent of direct taxation sources to the provinces. If the other provinces do not want them, they only have to leave them to Ottawa. But Quebec wants them. A stop should be put to the violation of the 1867 constitution, as it is violated now, and Quebec should get back 100 per cent of its sources of revenues, as it requests it.
Mr. Chairman, I can assure you that the fact of amending clause 9 and changing the rates 21 per cent and 24 per cent to 25, 50, 75 and 100 per cent, in order to give back to Quebec, by 1967, its sources of taxation, that will be much more important for national unity than any speech the Prime Minister can make before the Canadian Legion in Winnipeg.
I do admire the action taken by the Prime Minister but, unfortunately, it came too late. As this matter has been dragging for years, it comes too late; it will not be enough to satisfy the claims from Quebec. In my

opinion, it is still time, today, to amend this clause 9 and provide that by 1967 the provinces will be handed back 100 per cent of their indirect and direct sources of taxation.


You are sick.


Mr. Chairman, once more,
I did not catch a single word of the jabbering from the hon. member for Drummond-Arthabaska. If he wishes to ask a question, let him rise and ask it.


I simply say that you are mad. Mr. Chairman, if you allow me, I shall ask the member for Lapointe this question. If the central government gives to the provinces 100 per cent of the taxation powers, what will remain for it? How will the central government continue living?


It is very easy to answer that.


Mr. Chairman, it is very easy to answer that question. But before so doing, if I am not mistaken, the hon. member for Drummond-Arthabaska said I was mad. Now,
I want to assure him I am of dangerously sound mind, and I think that the mad people are those who change their opinions or ideas as soon as they move from one side of the house to the other. One can see then that their ideas are not sound, which is an indication that they are not of sound mind.


I never changed 