Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. I raise this question of privilege at this moment because it will lead to a suggestion which may need to be acted on under motions, which we should reach momentarily.
Yesterday the house learned with, I think, an element of surprise of the precarious state of the unemployment insurance fund. Like other members of the house, we in this party feel that any concern over this matter should be allayed as quickly as possible. We feel arrangements should be made today for dealing with the item in the supplementary estimates which would provide authority for loans to be made to the unemployment insurance fund.
Therefore we of the New Democratic party feel that arrangements should be made for this item to be dealt with, and toward that end we are prepared to suggest, and we do so unanimously, that there be a sitting of the house tonight from eight o'clock to ten o'clock on the understanding that the item respecting the unemployment insurance fund be called not later than eight o'clock this evening.


The hon. gentleman has made a suggestion. I had intended to rise on motions and suggest that since this is the eighth day on which the house has been considering these supplementary estimates-I say this in the spirit of trying to meet the proposal the hon. member makes, because it will be recalled that we dealt with supplementary estimates on the 13th, 16th, 25th, 26th, 30th and 31st of March, and we shall be dealing with them today-it does seem to me the hon. gentleman is right in suggesting that the consensus in this house is that it might be desirable for us to meet tonight. I would suggest that we meet between the hours of seven and eleven o'clock. This would be without any prejudice, of course, to a careful examination of the matters before us.
The suggestion the hon. gentleman has made is one which fits in with my interpretation of what I think is the feeling of the house, having in mind that we have been dealing with these matters this week and that we shall wish to continue this tempo of discussion. I would strongly suggest that the course proposed by the hon. member is one which we might take into account, and I suggest the hours between seven and eleven.


Mr. Speaker, to begin with I would point out that the hon. gentleman, with that capacity for being non-provocative, misstated the situation with regard to the time taken on these estimates. He mentioned "seven days". In fact the following is the time taken: on Monday the 16th, one hour; Wednesday the 25th, 30 minutes; Thursday the 26th, one hour. I point out that the suggestion that we sat for the number of days to which he referred is entirely baseless.


Mr. Speaker, may I just say that I agree fully. I was not trying to suggest that the supplementary estimates had been the subject of discussion during the whole of those days. I just mentioned that we had discussed them on those days.


You were trying to suggest that we took the whole day.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the high minded reason for the suggestion, but it is none the less completely ill founded. Having said that, we are here for the purpose of doing the business that is required to be done-


Then get your members back.


How about you?


Mr. Speaker, is the hon. gentleman making a contribution from his usual position?


Yes, the same position.


I find it very difficult to understand what has happened here. Excepting for the dollar item and the subsequent item we were given no explanation of the situation connected with this particular fund. We used to be told "Oh, if a new government comes in all these difficulties will end; there will be no overdrawing of the unemployment insurance account". I am not going into detail

Question of Privilege
in that connection, but I have the record here which shows that over and over again, when those who today sit-


Order.


Mr. Speaker, they speak of the danger to seals. I warn you over there that you are in difficulty too in this house. These are the trained seals of the government.


Skin them alive.


I point out, sir, that what has happened results from the action of the government itself. The information I have is that there are some $15 million unappropriated in the 1963-64 funds-


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.


Sit down. Don't keep interrupting.


Mr. Speaker-


You made a touching little speech yourself.


Mr. Speaker, I could have debated the merits of this question, but I deliberately refrained from doing that because I made a proposal, under privilege, that arrangements be made for an item to be called at a specific time in order that we could debate that item. I am interested in the right hon. gentleman's remarks, but it seems to me they would be appropriate to the item when we get to it. My suggestion is that we get to the item as quickly as we can.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order, the same point of order that has been raised by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. My point of order is that before the members of this house agree to sit any extended hours today surely we are entitled to hear from the government the true story of the fund as it is at the present time. We have not had any statement from the government side as to what arrangements have been made to provide additional funds, and we understand that arrangements have been made. Also, we do not know how long the new arrangements will last, as far as the fund is concerned. I think it is absolutely necessary that we know this.


Mr. Speaker, may I speak to the point of order. I think there is really no difficulty, procedurally, on this. The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre made a very sensible suggestion that we should meet this evening-


From eight to ten.


Yes, from eight to ten; that was a modification of my proposal. The hon. member raised, as a reason for so doing, the desirability of discussing a matter having to do with the unemployment insurance fund.
I think this was a reasonable suggestion, and I am sure the Minister of Labour would be very anxious to co-operate in dealing with that matter. But this is hardly the moment to deal with that question in itself. The only question now before the house is a suggestion as to our procedure for the balance of this day, and the suggestion is that we meet tonight. I have suggested from 7 to 11, but if there is some objection perhaps we can compromise and meet from 7.30 until 10.30. The only question now is for us to have an understanding that we will meet tonight, and I suggest 7.30 until 10.30.


Eight to ten.


Very well; we will meet from 8 to 10, and at that point seek to deal with the matter before the house.


Mr. Speaker-


If I may interrupt the right hon. gentleman, may I suggest I call the item "Presenting reports by standing and special committees" and then move on to motions; and if the Acting Prime Minister has any suggestion to make in particular with regard to the unemployment insurance fund or to hours of sitting, he can make it at that point. Then the Leader of the Opposition will be well within the rules and have ample opportunity, if that meets with the wishes of the house.


Mr. Speaker, I was well within the rules a moment ago, if I may say so with deference. May I say I like that spirit of co-operation between the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre and the government; because I was informed this morning that the minister was going to make the suggestion. However, in that fine spirit of co-operation which always prevails between the N.D.P. and the government, it was to be pretended that the suggestion came from the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.


That is as false as you usually are.


Motions.


Mr. Speaker, I agree that motions is the proper time to make the suggestion which was made by my hon. friend for Winnipeg North Centre. We have stated our respective positions, and I do

not think there is any need to take up further time of the house. My suggestion is that we sit tonight from 8 until 10, and I hope this will be the consensus of the house. I may assure my right hon. friend that if there is any thought of lack of co-operation in his mind, there is no intention of it. We want to see whether we can agree in this house this afternoon on the procedure and the time we propose to take today on the discussion of the business before us. I have made my suggestion, and I hope it will meet the wishes of my right hon. friend and those who sit behind him.


Mr. Speaker, we have always desired to co-operate-


Oh, oh.


The degree of agreement is apparent from that response. I appreciate the approval that statement has received from the government side of the house. However, I would point out this, that the government has not come clean with parliament at all. They brought us back here, although there is no objection to that whatever because the business has to be done. But they concealed the facts regarding the unemployment insurance fund and now find themselves in a difficult position.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. I think it is about time the right hon. gentleman began to observe some of the proprieties of the House of Commons. There was no concealment whatever. On March 6 the supplementary estimates tabled in this house indicated the necessity for replenishing the fund, so there was no concealment whatever.


Everybody realizes there was an indication in the estimates and also in the supplementaries, so why did the government not go ahead instead of allowing the time of the house to be used for other purposes? They thought they could push us into a position where we would not look into this matter carefully. This is what they tried to do. As a matter of fact I am informed that they had available as of last night some $15 million unused, and all that was required was an order in council before the end of the year.


I rise on a point of order.


Will the hon. gentleman allow me to continue? I have the floor.


I rise on a point of order. The right hon. gentleman is debating the merits of this particular matter on orders of the day, or on motions. We will have an opportunity of dealing with the merits of
Question of Privilege
this question later when the item is called. In the meantime I would ask the Chair to ask the right hon. gentleman to observe the rules that every hon. member has to observe.


I know the facts hurt the hon. gentleman, and that is why he jumps up on imaginary points of order. The position of the fund is directly attributable to the bumbling administration of this government. I want to make that very clear.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the right hon. gentleman feels very keenly about the position he takes on this matter. I am sure, however, he will agree with me that at this particular moment, in this phase of our discussion, it is not in order to discuss a matter of substance. The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre showed forbearance in that regard. If we were to permit or if Your Honour were to permit a general discussion of this subject, it would mean that all hon. members would have a right at this moment, before the item has been reached, to discuss it.
We will have an opportunity of discussing it. The Minister of Labour will be very anxious to deal with this matter. I am sure the right hon. gentleman will agree that we want to regularize this discussion, and I suggest it is not in order at this time to discuss the merits of the question. We should wait until we reach this item, and we will arrange that that be done today. We will have an opportunity to discuss it, particularly as we may meet tonight between the hours of eight and ten.


I was not speaking on the merits of the proposition, I was speaking about the demerits of the government. I want to make that very clear. They are asking that the house sit extra hours, and to that we have no objection. I am simply pointing out the fact that what has happened is another result of the bumbling attitude of this government and the hiding of the facts by the Minister of Labour.


I do not wish to cut off any hon. member who wishes to make a contribution, but it seems to me fairly clear, if I understand the situation correctly, that the Acting Prime Minister has moved-


Suggested.


-suggested that this house do sit from eight o'clock until ten o'clock this evening, and that is the matter under discussion.


take it that this is a motion which the Acting Prime Minister has moved and is therefore debatable.

Question of Privilege


I did not move a motion. What I did was simply to indicate that I thought this would be the feeling of the house, but the house is master of its own rules. If this were the consensus, then no formal requirement would be necessary.


In that case it becomes an order of the house, and we would agree to that. I rise simply for the purpose of saying, as my colleague has said, that we are quite willing to meet this evening from eight o'clock to ten o'clock on the understanding that the question of the replenishment of the unemployment insurance fund will be dealt with during that period, or at least will be dealt with during the day and that it be called no later than eight o'clock.
I want to say that in making this suggestion my colleague is certainly not acting on behalf of the government or in collusion with the government.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, we have had this sort of insinuation on two or three occasions from members of the official opposition, and I want to say it is deeply resented. As a matter of fact the records of this session of parliament will show that we have voted against the government much more often than we have voted with them. As a matter of fact we only voted with the government on one amendment, and the official opposition also voted with the government against one of our amendments. We do not take orders either from the government or from the official opposition. We are here to facilitate and expedite the business of the house-


Oh, oh.


-and we will take an independent attitude in so doing. We support the suggestion of the Acting Prime Minister-


You would not sit at ten o'clock this morning.


-but I want to say to the government that I hope the impasse into which the House of Commons has manoeuvred itself will be a lesson to the government not to bring in supplementary estimates and interim supply almost at the deadline, when parliament either has to rush through them without proper consideration or has to sit beyond the time when we intended to adjourn.
This has become an all too common practice. Supplementary estimates and regular estimates are left until the dying days or hours of the session and then are rushed through without proper consideration. It is true that some time has been spent on the agriculture estimates. I want to remind the government

there are a lot of estimates still to be dealt with, and this house need hardly be reminded that these are supplementary estimates, which means that the money has been spent. It is money which was not provided for in the regular estimates, which means that these expenditures were the result of an emergency or represent gross miscalculations by the departments in estimating their monetary needs for the fiscal year.
Members of the house have a right to expect from the government a very clear explanation why these additional sums are needed. They are not small sums. There is some $240 million of expenditures and almost $57 million in loans, investments and advances, a total of almost $300 million. In spite of the hour and the time I do not think we should be asked simply to slide these items through because the government was derelict in not presenting them to the house at an early enough date so they could be given proper examination and consideration.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, we are quite prepared, subject to the conditions which I have already stated, to sit this evening, but we think the house should take whatever time is necessary to examine these estimates and pass them properly even though we have now gone into what was to have been the Easter recess.


Mr. Speaker, we in this group are quite prepared to co-operate by sitting this evening. We would love to get down to business and deal with the matters at hand. I had to return to the house, and I might say I found that parliament and parliamentary procedure have reached a new low in the thinking of the people across the country because of what has taken place in the last few days. I suggest, Mr. Speaker, that it would be a good thing if we could agree to get ahead with the business and leave all the wrangling for another occasion.


Mr. Speaker, I go along with some of the members on this side of the house in that sometimes we have to put a great deal of water in our wine to digest the food that the government on the other side of the house feeds us. There is one thing I do not quite understand, and that is why this problem could not have been discussed a little earlier in the day, following the usual procedure so that members of all parties could have been made aware of the situation and could have come to a decision on it.
So far as we in this corner of the house are concerned, we are quite willing to sit the extra hours tonight, but we only hope the government does not make a habit of this

night sitting; else we are likely to start sitting on Sunday afternoons. Since the government puts its foot in the noose it can call itself lucky that sometimes the opposition is there to take it out.
I hope this will be the last time we have to sacrifice not only the Easter recess but also Wednesday nights, as this seems to be becoming a habit of the government, seeking 24 hour sittings and getting nowhere with them. We have a lot of estimates to pass and, as the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam pointed out, their presentation has been delayed to the last minute so they can be pushed through in one block and the opposition will have opportunity to say very little on them. I would ask the government to take this under consideration and arrange to have the Easter holiday at the same time as everybody else in the country, and the same applies to Christmas.


Order. By agreement it is ordered that this house do sit from eight to ten o'clock this evening.


I hope you will point out, sir, with the caveat the government has given, that the labour estimate will be brought forward at that time if it has not already been called.


And, Mr. Speaker, could we have an assurance from the hon. member for Timiskaming (Mr. Peters) and the hon. member for Skeena (Mr. Howard) that they will not block the passage of this?


The last thing I have to do is concern myself with asinine questions like that.
[Later:}
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Labour. Did the urgency in regard to replenishing the U.I.C. fund arise overnight Monday?


No, Mr. Speaker. As I have stated already, the government indicated the necessity for this action in the item in the supplementary estimates; that is, that it would be required for the current fiscal year. The forecast of the commission was quite clear.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The minister said that the urgency was indicated in the supplementary estimates, which were placed before the house quite some time ago. Nevertheless the urgency of this matter had to be drawn from the Minister of Labour by way of questions on
Questions
this particular subject yesterday after the matter was brought to his attention.


Question.


Order. What is the hon. member's question, please?


The matter was brought quite clearly to the minister's attention on Monday evening.


Order.


Why, then, was it necessary to draw information from the minister on Tuesday by way of questions?


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
What progress is being made with respect to the surveys and works undertaken at the seaport at Gros Cacouna?
[Translation}
Answer: Preliminary technical work is nearly completed and the department will soon be in a position to prepare plans and specifications.


What was the total revenue earned by the Canadian National Railway at Radville, Saskatchewan for each of the years 1958, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962, and 1963?


The management of Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
On branch lines, the revenues derived from traffic originating at stations where no agent is located are reported through the first agency station through which the traffic passes. Such is the case at Radville and Avon-lea, which are agency stations located on the Weyburn and Avonlea subdivisions respectively. As a result, available earning figures for those two stations include revenues derived from several other stations and are not representative of actual earnings derived from traffic originating at either point. To produce the requested information would involve considerable time and expense. However, when a study is undertaken preparatory to the filing of an application for abandonment of any line, it is necessary to extract actual earnings for each station. In connection with applications filed with the board of transport commissioners for the abandonment of the Weyburn and Avonlea subdivisions, it was necessary to determine the actual earnings of each of the stations on those lines, and the revenues

Questions
tor the year 1959 at Radville and Avonlea were $115,896 and $119,050 respectively.


What was the total revenue earned by the Canadian National Railways at Avonlea, Saskatchewan for each of the years 1958, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962, and 1963?


See answer to question
No. 240.


1.	Are C.N.R. train employees ever compelled to work 16 hours a day and, if so, are overtime benefits paid after eight hours?
2.	Do these employees enjoy the holidays recognized by other associations in this country?
3.	Are any of the stations on the Chambord-Dolbeau line open when the train comes through on Sunday mornings and, if not, has the company made any inquiry concerning the possible loss of passenger business by the C.N.R. as a result of this lack of service?

Answer: The management of Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
1.	Running trades employees in road service cannot be completed to work over 12 hours. The men are sole judges of their condition and may advise a dispatcher with at least one-hour notice of their desire to take rest after 12 hours on duty. Their pay is based on mileage or hours, whichever is greater, for any one tour of duty, and any overtime is paid on this basis in accordance with the terms of the wage agreements.
2.	Statutory holiday provisions are not contained in the collective agreements for running trades employees in road service on any major railroads on the North American continent. However, statutory holiday conditions for daily-rated yard employees are comparable to those of other industries.
3.	Yes.


1.	What total financial or equivalent contribution is the government of Canada required to make to the construction of the Queensway in the national capital area?
2.	To the 31st of December, 1963, what contribution has been made by the government or any of its agencies?
3.	To the 31st of December, 1963, what has been the total amount expended by all governments, federal, provincial and municipal, upon the planning and construction of the Queensway?
4.	In what stages is the Queensway being constructed?
5.	Of course, what stages have been completed?
6.	What is the target date for completion of the other stages?
7.	When is it anticipated that the whole project will be completed?
8.	Have there been any discussions between the government of Canada or any of its agencies, and

the government of Ontario or the corporation of the city of Ottawa for the purpose of endeavouring to expedite the completion of this project?


1. Canada, through the Department of Public Works, contributes to the cost of the Queensway on the basis provided for in trans-Canada highway agreement which is 50 per cent of the equivalent cost of constructing a two lane highway. Canada's contribution, through the Department of Public Works, is presently estimated at $7 million.
Canada's contribution through the national capital commission is the land for the right of way of the Queensway, part of which is a former Canadian National Railway right of way crossing Ottawa from west to east, acquired as a result of a comprehensive railway relocation scheme-no value is placed on this former right of way-together with the additional lands required to widen the former railway right of way to a maximum width of 180 feet. The cost of the land required for the widening is estimated at $5 million. Further, the national capital commission is to landscape the right of way, approaches, exits, ramps and interchanges at an estimated cost of $450,000. The national capital commission will also maintain the landscaping of the right of way at an estimated annual cost of $35,000.
The extent of Canada's total financial contribution will not become definite until the design and construction of all stages has been completed.
2.	Department of Public Works, $4,917,943; national capital commission, $4,529,000 for the lands required for the widening of the former right of way, $348,000 for landscaping construction and $4,000 for maintenance of landscaping.
3.	Shareable cost as provided for in the trans-Canada highway agreement, $9,835,886; national capital commission, $4,881,000 as shown in 2 above. The federal government has no record of the non-shareable costs incurred by the provincial and municipal governments.
4.	Stage I, Rideau river to east city limits; stage II, west city limits to Carling avenue; stage III, Carling avenue-O'Connor street; stage IV, O'Connor street-Rideau river.
5.	Stages I and II.
6.	Stage III, the section of stage III from Carling avenue to Bronson avenue should be open in May 1964. The section from Bronson avenue to O'Connor street by the fall of 1964.
Stage IV, the section of stage IV from O'Connor street to Metcalfe street will be open in the fall of 1964. On the section from Metcalfe street to the Rideau river, final design to contract stage is not complete and

as the province is the construction agency and completion will involve decisions by all three levels of government participating in the agreements, I am not in a position to state a completion date.
7.	Answered by part 6, stage IV.
8.	A Queensway committee made up of officials of the province of Ontario, the city of Ottawa, the national capital commission and the Department of Public Works meets monthly to discuss Queensway matters, review proposed planning with the consulting engineers and to expedite the progress of work over the entire project.


1.	How many miles of railroad has Canadian National Railways abandoned since 1954 and, what areas were serviced by those lines?
2.	How many miles of railroad have been built by Canadian National Railways since 1954 and what areas are serviced by those new lines?
[Translation\
Answer: The management of Canadian National Railways advise as follows:
1.	Since 1954 the Board of Transport Commissioners for Canada has authorized the abandonment of 567 miles of line in various areas across the system.
2.	A total of about 585 miles of main track and approximately 550 miles of sidings and industrial spurs have been constructed in various areas across the system.


1.	When is a report expected from the investigators of the air crash of the DC-8F at Ste. Therese?
2.	Does a transcript exist of the tape made by the tower at Dorval of radio traffic with the aircraft and. if so, what does the transcript say?
3.	When did T.C.A. receive notice of the U.S. FAA ruling of 1961 that all U.S. jet aircraft must carry recorders?
4.	Was this ruling considered at any time by the board of directors or by the management committee of T.C.A.?


1. It is not possible to estimate with any accuracy when the report of the investigators will be completed. However, it can be stated that the report will not be completed before early summer.
2.	A transcript of communication between the aircraft and the air traffic control units at Montreal international airport does exist. The transmissions are all of a routine nature and do not provide any indication that the fight was in difficulty.
3.	T.C.A. received original notice in August, 1957 with an amendment in July 1958, stating a requirement for compliance by U.S. air lines in May 1961.
4.	T.C.A. management considered this ruling, but due to certain limitations in record-
Questions
ing equipment at that time, elected (along with many other world air lines) to defer the project pending development of units of a more advanced type.
T.C.A. has now embarked on a program involving what it considers to be the best and newest recording equipment available.


1.	How many new vocational schools or additions have been approved under the amended Technical and Vocational Training Assistance Act from January 1, 1964 to date, and where are they located?
2.	How many new technical schools or additions have been approved under the amended Technical and Vocational Training Assistance Act from January 1, 1964 to date, and where are they located?
3.	What student capacity has been added in the period January 1, 1964 to date?
4.	What is the total cost of these projects?
5.	What is the federal government's share of the cost?


1. Seven new vocational high schools have been approved under the technical and vocational training assistance agreement since January 1, 1964. They are listed as follows:
Quebec: Donnacona vocational training.
Ontario: Barrie North collegiate; St. Mary's district C.I. (additions and alternations); St. Catherines secondary; Saltfleet, Dewitt road composite (The school is located between Stoney Creek and Winona near Hamilton).
Alberta: Peace River, Peace River high school.
B.C.: Vancouver, Point Grey junior-senior secondary school (additions and alterations).
2.	Three new trade schools have been approved during the same period:
N.S.: Amherst, interprovincial trade school for the deaf.
Quebec: Montreal, institute of deaf mutes; la ferme, school of agriculture (Abitibi Co.).
3.	The student capacity of the schools approved since January 1, 1964 is 3,921.
4.	The total cost of these projects, including buildings and equipment is $10,461,930.
5.	The federal contribution approved for the above projects including equipment is $3,092,931 which represents 50 per cent of the cost to be borne by the province for buildings and equipment (excluding academic facilities). The municipal contribution to these projects is estimated at $4,276,070.
The federal contribution to expenditures by the province will be increased by 25 per cent when agreements are completed with the provinces pursuant to Bill C-105 which amended the Technical and Vocational Training Assistance Act to permit a 75 per cent contribution to training facilities to March 31, 1967.

Questions


1.	Does the federal government assist any provinces in the distribution of free milk in schools and, if so, in which provinces?
2.	What was the per capita figures of milk consumption in each province?
3.	How many pounds of surplus butter does the federal government buy annually?


1. No.
2. The per capita figures of milk consumption, in each province, as provided by the dominion bureau of statistics for 1962 is:
Purchases
1958-	59	72,966,653	lbs.1959-	60	74,570,888	lbs.1960-	61	76,015,753	lbs.1961-	62	101,320,765	lbs.1962-	63	81,695,766	lbs.1963-	64	*71,688,031	lbs.
Estimated and includes fire loss of 3,750,000 lbs.
Sales are estimated to exceed purchases.


Is a wharf to be constructed at Stormont, Guysborough county, Nova Scotia and, if so, when will tenders be called?


The department is presently investigating the provision of deep water wharf facilities in the Stormont area of country harbour. Surveys will be undertaken this spring to determine costs. When this information is available the department will decide if the construction of a wharf is justified.


1.	Has the lowest tender quotation of $2,291.30 by Percy Speers, Wiarton, Ontario (slip, ferry wharf, Tobermory, Bruce county Ontario), received final approval and, if so, at what date will construction of this project commence?
2.	H final approval has not been given, what are the reasons for not accepting the lowest tender?


1. Yes. Construction is expected to commence the middle of April 1964.
2. Not applicable.


1. How much money was spent in Canada in each of the past three years by the United States
[Mr. MacEachen.l
Pints per diem
Prince Edward Island	1.00
Nova Scotia	0.69
New Brunswick	0.72
Quebec	0.82
Ontario	0.82
Manitoba	0.93
Saskatchewan	1.16
Alberta	0.81
British Columbia	0.66
Canada	0.82
3. Purchases and sales of butter during the period May 1 to April 30 for the dairy years	
indicated have been in	
Sales		Difference
45,072,155	lbs.	27,894,498 lbs.56,679,316	lbs.	17,891,572 lbs.41,916,652	lbs.	34,104,101 lbs.37,108,772	lbs.	64,211,983 lbs.58,645,607	lbs.	23,050,069 lbs.*74,766,833 lbs.	**3,078,802 lbs.
government through its department of health, education and welfare and agencies like the national institute of health in research in the natural and biological sciences?
2. Has the government any information as to plans by these American agencies to reduce these grants in the coming year?


1 and 2. This information is not available.


To control and reduce the consumer price of sugar will the federal government consider (a) the establishment of an agency to acquire domestic sugar surplus from commonwealth countries on long term contracts (b) consider the establishment of a provincial-federal distribution agency to provide stable sugar prices to consumers (c) increase the subsidy to Canadian sugar beet producers?
Answer: For reasons which were indicated to the house on February 19, after there had been discussions with commonwealth and other producers the government concluded that it would not be in the interests of the Canadian consumer to enter into long term contract arrangements for supplies of sugar at that time. Since that time world sugar prices have been falling with an attendant decline in the price for refined sugar in Canada and the futures market forecasts still lower prices as the year progresses.
(a)	The discussions with commonwealth producers did not disclose any surplus of sugar available to be acquired on long term contracts at advantageous prices.
(b)	Stability of sugar prices in Canada is dependant upon stability of prices in the

world market from which the bulk of Canadian supplies are drawn.
(c)	The level of support under the agricultural stabilization board is being considered at present and an announcement will be made in due course.


Is it the intention of the government to prosecute the cement companies for the establishment of a monopolistic control over the transportation of bulk cement by selected carriers?


No decision regarding prosecution or other criminal proceedings in respect of alleged contraventions of the substantive provisions of the Combines Investigation Act is made unless and until a report is received from the restrictive trade practices commission or evidence is referred to the attorney general of Canada by the director of investigation and research. No report regarding the industry concerned has been received, nor has evidence been referred to the attorney general by the director.


Is it the intention of the government at this session of parliament to prosecute the sugar refineries who have manipulated the consumer price of sugar to the detriment of the general public?


No decision regarding prosecution or other criminal proceedings in respect of alleged contraventions of the substantive provisions of the Combines Investigation Act is made unless and until a report is received from the restrictive trade
Questions
practices commission or evidence is referred to the attorney general of Canada by the director of investigation and research. No report regarding the industry concerned has been received since the report of the commission concerning the sugar industry in eastern Canada dated February 3, 1960, as a result of which prosecution proceedings have already been taken, nor has evidence been referred to the attorney general by the director.


How many designated areas are there in the province of Saskatchewan?


None.


1.	What has been the average level of lake Ontario each year commencing 1938?
2.	What has been the discharge or outflow from lake Ontario each year commencing 1938?
3.	What has been the average level at Ogdens-burg each year commencing 1938?


1, 2 and 3. The following table gives the mean annual water levels and flows for the period 1938 to 1963 inclusive at the points indicated. Annual mean levels of the St. Lawrence river at Prescott, Ontario have been substituted for those at Ogdensburg, New York, but as these points are on opposite sides of the river the water levels at one are reflected at the other. Water levels are expressed in feet above mean sea level referred to the international great lakes datum (1955) and flows, in cubic feet per second.
Lake Ontario	Average outflow	St. Lawrence riverat	from	atYear	Kingston, Ont.	lake Ontario cfs.	Prescott, Ontario1938	244.06	218,000	243.571939	243.93	215,000	243.481940	243.72	212,000	243.251941	243.68	210,000	243.241942	244.05	220,000	243.551943	246.07	257,000	245.391944	245.08	240,000	244.471945	245.80	252,000	245.161946	245.61	249,000	244.971947	246.18	262,000	245.441948	245.88	254,000	245.201949	244.76	233,000	244.211950	245.22	243,000	244.621951	246.40	267,000	245.731952	246.79	277,000	246.091953	245.64	260,000	244.981954	245.51	258,000	244.851955	246.02	267,000	245.33
Questions
Lake Ontario	Average outflow	St. Lawrence riverat	from	atYear	Kingston, Ont.	lake Ontario cfs.	Prescott, Ontario1956	245.29	254,000	244.621957	244.38	234,000	243.811958	243.70	220,000	243.221959	243.84	223,000	243.361960	244.60	238,000	244.001961	244.27	234,000	243.661962	244.36	209,000	243.861963	244.42	206,000	243.93


North and Victoria):
1.	Has a hydrographic survey been carried out recently in the Bras d'Or lakes and has such a survey been completed?
2.	When was the last survey carried out?
3.	When was the first survey of the Bras d'Or lakes carried out?


1. A hydrographic survey was made in August 1963 from McKinnons point to North basin and of the channel through the swing bridge at Grand narrows in Bras d'Or lake. This was only a reconnaissance survey and obtained the information required at that time.
In June 1963 a hydrographic survey was carried out of the northern entrance to Great Bras d'Or. This survey is completed.
2.	A survey of the Bras d'Or lakes, north of Grand narrows, was carried out by the Canadian hydrographic service-1941-1947. The northern entrance to Great Bras d'Or has been resurveyed periodically since.
3.	The first survey of the Bras d'Or lakes was carried out in 1852-1857. This is the only complete survey made of Bras d'Or lake, south of Grand narrows.


North and Victoria):
1.	Is consideration being given to the construction of an extension to the breakwater at Indian Beach, North Sydney, Nova Scotia?
2.	What is the estimated cost of such an extension and how soon will tenders be called for this project?


1. No.
2. Not applicable.


1. Has the Department of Transport had any negotiations with the Ontario department of highways regarding bridges to be built over the Trent canal system of Lakefield, Buckhorn, or Burleigh Falls and, if so, on what date will construction of the bridges commence?

2. Is the Department of Transport considering building new workshops at the depot in Peterborough?


1. The department has had negotiations with the Ontario department of highways regarding the construction of bridges at Buckhorn and Burleigh Falls but not at Lakefield. Dates for the start of construction of the former bridges have not been set.
2. Yes, in due course but not immediately.


Motion No. 9-Mr. Laiulippe:
That an humble address be presented to His Excellency praying that he will cause to be laid before this house copies of all letters, telegrams and other documents exchanged between the Minister of Labour or officers of his department and officials of the national employment office, unemployment insurance commission, the competent authorities in Maine and Vermont, officials of the United States department of the interior and labor secretariat, and between the unions and the Canadian and American companies concerned with the problem of Canadian loggers permanently or seasonally employed in the United States forest industry who cannot obtain unemployment insurance benefits on their return to Canada.
I understand that this motion is to be withdrawn.
Order discharged and motion withdrawn.


Motion No. 10-Mr. Latulippe:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams or other documents exchanged between the Minister of Finance or any other officer of his department and the Canadian association of the lumber industry or one of their representatives or members, in connection with the 11 per cent tax on building materials.
Mr. Speaker, in connection with this motion I should point out to the hon. member that there is no such correspondence, but the government is prepared to accept the motion.


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 29-Mr. Langlois:
That an humble address be presented to His Excellency praying that he will cause to be laid before this house a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams or other documents exchanged between the Prime Minister or any minister of the cabinet and Mr. Jean Lesage, premier of the province of Quebec or Mr. Gerin-Lajoie, minister of youth, concerning interest free loans to university students, as mentioned in the speech from the throne.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I would like to have motion No. 29 passed today if possible. I have contacted some of the ministers with respect to motions No. 30 to 52 inclusive, and I would like to have these stand seeing that quite a few of the ministers are absent from the house today.
Regarding motion No. 29, this is agreeable, subject to the usual reservation.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the said motion subject to the reservation expressed by the Secretary of State for External Affairs?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 57-Mr. Howard:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all regulations, or letters or communications relating to, or directed to, employees in the public service of Canada who are employed at Terrace, B.C. and relating to the question of seniority being or no longer being the determining factor in the scheduling of annual leave.
Mr. Speaker, I understand the hon. gentleman would be willing to have this motion stand today.


I would be glad to co-operate in any way with the Minister of Transport on this matter.
Motion stands.


Motion No. 59-Mr. Howard:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents exchanged between the government and any agency or branch thereof and any other person, group or organization since December 20, 1963 relating to Bill No. C-130 of the first session of the twenty sixth parliament entitled an act to provide for disposition of Indian claims.
Mr. Speaker, we would have no objection to accepting this motion on condition that the word "and" at the end of the second line be replaced by the word "or",
Motions for Papers
which I think the hon. gentleman means. Otherwise there would be a demand for the filing of confidential information.


Yes, that could be "or" or a comma, either one.


Subject to the reservation expressed by the minister is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the said motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 63-Mr. Howard:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents exchanged between the government or any agency or branch thereof and any other person, group or organization relating to Indian reserve lands which are now situated in the Burns Lake Indian agency between the period of January 1, 1954 and December 31, 1962.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask permission to withdraw this motion.
Withdrawn.
Order discharged and motion withdrawn.


Motion No. 66-Mr. Howard:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and other documents exchanged between Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation or any branch office thereof and the Aluminum Company of Canada, or any other person since January 1, 1958 relating to the question of loans under the National Housing Act in the community of Kitimat, B.C.
Could we stand this motion in the absence of the minister?


Yes.
Motion stands.


Motion No. 69-Mr. Langlois:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all correspondence, letters, telegrams or documents exchanged between the Prime Minister or any minister of the government and any universities of the province of Quebec, regarding grants between December 1962 and March 1, 1964.
Mr. Speaker, I request that this motion stand.


The motion which was just read, No. 69?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, No. 69 is to stand.


I agree to have it stand until I meet the minister.
Motion stands.
1650	HOUSE OF COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry


Motion No. 75-Mr. Jorgenson:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all directives, changes in regulations and authorization for expenditures from the Minister of Forestry from the period February 3, 1964 to March 13. 1964.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I have agreed to withdraw motions Nos. 75 and 76 pending the investigation in accordance with the promise made to the house by the Minister of Transport.
Then motions Nos. 75 and 76 are withdrawn.
Orders discharged and motions withdrawn.


Motion No. 86-Mr. Howard:
That an order of the house do issue for a copy of all observations and reports concerning space or the location thereof for the R.C.M. Police as referred to in the answer given to question No. 300 of the present session of parliament.
May I ask that this motion stand so that I can look into the matter further?
Motion stands.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege, following a question I put yesterday to the Minister of Justice. In this respect I refer to page 1600 of Hansard, and I quote:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Is the selection of lawyers acting for certain crown corporations based on political considerations?
And the minister's answer was:
The answer is no, Mr. Speaker.
The minister deceived the house and considered members as April's fools, since he makes a selection as regards lawyers and notaries acting for the government.
It seems to me that he favours only those who are recommended by Liberal members and defeated Liberal candidates.
The minister has what I call a patronage list.


Mr. Speaker, I am of the opinion that the question of privilege of the hon. member
[Mr. Langlois.l
was out of order, since in view of its purpose it should have been raised this morning rather than yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, this morning we
did not sit.


April's fool.


On the orders of the day:
I would ask the Minister of Labour whether he is in a position to explain the postponement of the sailing of the Upper Lakes vessel John Ericsson, which I understand is one of the ships boycotted by the longshoremen in Chicago last year. Does this action indicate that the difficulties of last year on the great lakes are approaching settlement?


I would hope that the thought expressed in the right hon. gentleman's final sentence is correct. The decision on the part of the Upper Lakes Shipping Company not to send the Ericsson into Chicago at this time is a decision made by the company, likely in the interests of creating a favourable atmosphere at the present time.


I take it from the minister's answer that this was not a decision which was determined by the direction or suggestion of the trustees?


I can tell the right hon. gentleman that the trustees have been anxious to work out a solution to the harassment on the great lakes in parts of the United States, and I think it would be correct to say that they may have expressed their concern to the president of Upper Lakes Shipping on this particular point.


On the orders of the day:
know that any decision by the federal government to give aid toward rehabilitating the people in the Albemi valley depends on an application being received from the government of British Columbia. However, in view of the fact that the people in that area and a committee headed by two mayors, of which the honorary president is the lieutenant

governor of the province, are making a nationwide appeal for funds to help those who are destitute and homeless, I wonder whether the federal government has made any decision with reference to the suggestion I put to them yesterday, that a substantial financial contribution be made to the Alberni valley disaster fund.


If I may say
so, I think the sequence of events now is such that we would have to await a decision or advice from the provincial government; because I have now had a wire from Hon. Wesley D. Black telling us that we will be advised of the extent of the damage after a provincial cabinet meeting to be held on Thursday. So I think any participation by the federal government should now await a request from the provincial government.


I recognize that this would be true with respect to a general rehabilitation program. What I am asking is this. Would the government be prepared to consider making an immediate contribution to the fund designed to help those who are homeless at the moment?


I am certain that the remarks of the hon. member will be noted by the cabinet; but again, if we are to participate in the w