Mr. Edmund Asselin (Notre Dame de
Grace): Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of personal privilege affecting my honour and the rights and privileges of all Members of the House. The question of privilege arises from an article which appeared on the editorial page of the Montreal Star, Friday, May 28, 1965, entitled "The Asselin Judgment". The editorial refers to a judgment rendered May 25, 1965 by the Honourable Mr. Justice Paul Trepanier in a case before the Superior Court, Province of Quebec, district of Montreal, No. 660-374 and to a transaction which I had with the Protestant School Board of Montreal in 1960 and 1961, before I became a Member of the House of Commons. This editorial says that I am not fit to sit in this House because, and I quote from the article:
Mr. Asselin's dealings in this case were called into question by two inquiries.
Mr. Justice Paul Trepanier's judgment, while dismissing the action and assessing costs against the school board, rejects out of hand the allegation that I was in a position of trust or an agent or a mandator of the board, in these words-and I quote from the third paragraph of the judgment on page 12:
For the foregoing reasons the Court has come to the conclusion that the Plaintiff-
That is the school board.
-far from proving an express or a tacit mandate, has rather confirmed the allegations of the defence.
That is myself.
His Lordship deals with the other allegations in these terms. First I will quote from the last paragraph of page 12 of the judgment:
However, because of the publicity surrounding this matter and because of the allegation of subterfuge attributed to the Defendant and the obtaining of confidential information which might have a damaging effect on the reputation of the persons concerned in this matter who hold public offices the Court considers itself justified in glancing at these allegations.
Then at the bottom of page 13, after having rejected the allegations of subterfuge and having looked at the allegation of obtaining
confidential information, he rejects both, in these words:
Here again this allegation is absolutely contrary to the evidence.
His Lordship, in summing up in the fourth paragraph on page 14 of the judgment, goes much further; and I quote again:
On the whole, the Court has searched in vain for some motive to cast any blame whatsoever upon the Defendant or upon the officers of the Plaintiff-
That is the school board.
-in this whole transaction.
Mr. Speaker, if the Montreal Star's proposition were allowed to stand, then any Member of this House whose actions, even before he became a Member of this House, were called into question by an inquiry would ipso facto become unfit to sit in the House of Commons, even though the only basis or premise on which his actions were questioned was later declared by a properly constituted court to be unfounded and contrary to the evidence.
[DOT] (2:40 p.m.)
If such were the case, Mr. Speaker, then any Member against whom unfounded accusations were levelled would be unfit to sit in this House, even though a judge of the Superior Court declared that there existed no impropriety and no reason to cast any blame whatsoever on that Member.
The Montreal Star's editorial denies the right to equality before and recourse to the courts for all Members of this House who have or who might be subjected to unfounded accusations, particularly with regard to their conduct as private citizens before being elected to this House.
Thank you, Mr. Speaker.
['Mr. Speaker,\nI should like to take this question as notice.']
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege affecting all hon. Members of this House. On March 11, 1965, I placed on the order

June 1, 1985
Civil Aviation Policy
paper the question which now stands as question 1 under date of April 5. The last session concluded without this question being answered and I therefore transferred it to the order paper for this session. On March 18 I placed on the order paper the question which now stands as question 4 dated April 5. The last session concluded without an answer and it was also transferred. On May 6 I posed an oral question to the Secretary of State (Mr. Lamontagne) requesting a statement of Government policy related to parolees, and some ten days later posed a further question to the Secretary of State requesting an answer and was told the information was not available as yet from the Civil Service Commission.
Mr. Speaker, it should not require anything like three months to obtain the information requested by my written questions, and my oral question was not such as to necessitate a full month's preparation in order to provide an answer, if the Government does in fact have any policy in this regard.
The delays in providing information in respect of these examples would not indicate the type of attention that would ensure confidence in the minds of Members of the Opposition that rule changes presently proposed would be of value and benefit to those charged with the responsibility of determining the merit of Government action. I have been discriminated against by the Government and prevented from obtaining the information I have a right to, and which they have a solemn obligation to provide.


Mr. Speaker, I have been provided by the Civil Service Commission with an answer to this question. I am informed that parolees are afforded the same consideration that is provided under the Civil Service Act to all other candidates.


Mr. Speaker, on April 24, 1964, I announced three principles which had been accepted by the Government as a basis for civil aviation policy. Since that time the main attention of the Government has been concentrated on working out the international aspect of civil aviation policy.
The first principle stated that, in the international field, air services provided by Canadian air lines should serve the Canadian

interest as a whole; that these services should not be competitive or conflicting, but should represent a single integrated plan, which could be achieved by amalgamation, by partnership or by a clear division of fields of operations.
In applying this principle, the Government decided to ask Air Canada and Canadian Pacific Airlines to see whether they could agree themselves, after consultation, upon a basis for its application. The two air lines have agreed that the most effective way to carry out this policy would be by a clear division of their fields of operations so that outside Canada neither air line would serve any point served by the other. After considering many possible divisions of the world between the two air lines, it was finally concluded that the simplest approach would be to agree that each line should continue to serve all the points now served by it and that the geographical areas now served by each should be defined and extend so that practically the whole world be open to service by one air line or the other.
As a result, it has now been decided that Canadian Pacific Airlines will serve the whole Pacific area, the whole continent of Asia, Australia and New Zealand, southern and southeastern Europe and Latin America. Air Canada will serve the United Kingdom, western, northern and eastern Europe, and the Caribbean. The only exception to the clearcut division is that Canadian Pacific Airlines will continue to serve the Netherlands. This division accounts for the whole of the world except Africa and the United States. For the time being, neither air line is contemplating service to any part of Africa and the question of service to Africa will be left aside until some practical question arises. In the case of the United States, we continue to hope that negotations for a new bilateral will soon be completed. Once they have been completed a decision will be made as to which of the new points is to be served by each of our national air lines.
The Government has undertaken to regard Air Canada and Canadian Pacific Airlines as its chosen instruments in the areas of the international operations allocated to each. The Government will pursue vigorously with the governments of other countries negotiations for extensions of Canadian service in their respective areas of operation. Negotiations have already been undertaken with several countries and as soon as these ne-
June 1, 1S65

gotiations are brought to a successful conclusion a further report will be made upon them.
Agreement has already been reached between the two carriers regarding sales and agency relationships. The agreement provides that in the international field each carrier is to represent the other to the best of its ability. The sales activities of both companies are on a basis of mutual assistance; sales personnel endeavour to meet the wishes of any customer by selling transportation over its own air line and, wherever feasible, over the other Canadian air line, so that passengers are encouraged to travel to their ultimate destinations by Canadian air lines. Other measures of co-operation between the two companies will be maintained. These include joint advice to the Government on bilateral air negotiations and joint servicing and support arrangements where appropriate.
The second principle announced on April 24, 1964, related to domestic main line services. In that announcement, competition was not rejected but the Government made it clear that any development of competition should not compromise or seriously injure the economic viability of Air Canada's main line domestic operations which represent the essential framework of its network of domestic services. In other words, it was stated that there must not be the kind of competition which would put Air Canada into the red; and, in the event that competition continued, the Air Transport Board should ensure an opportunity for growth to both lines above this basic minimum.
The Government has decided to employ a special aviation consultant to advise whether the growth of domestic main line service would now permit some further degree of competition on that basis and, if so, to recommend a suitable procedure for working out, from time to time, such extensions of service. Steps are being taken to secure the services of an outstanding international aviation consultant for this purpose.
The third principle announced on April 24, 1964 stated that a definition of the role for regional air carriers providing scheduled service was necessary, including a relationship with the main line carriers which would give the regional carriers a reasonable chance to operate without Governmental subsidies.
In the discussions with the Presidents of the two major air lines, it has been made clear that the Government expects them to take some responsibility to assist in working out that policy. There are many forms which such
Civil Aviation Policy
assistance might take, ranging through route transfers and route operations, contractual relations and various forms of technical and administrative support. Implementation of this co-operation is not something that will produce major results overnight, but it should have important results over a longer period.
The Presidents of the two major air lines as well as each of the major regional carriers are being requested to prepare special recommendations on measures by which they consider this third principle could be implemented; and on what specific steps could be taken by the major carriers, or by the Government, to improve the position of the principal regional air carriers. It is planned, in this connection, to arrange for continuing machinery of consultation and liaison between Air Canada, Canadian Pacific Airlines, the major regional carriers and the Government to ensure the development of adequate regional air carriers.
The development of Canadian civil aviation in accordance with these policies will provide for improved and more stable service for the Canadian public as well as a better economic framework for the carriers themselves. In the domestic field a degree of competition will remain to provide the public with the advantages that can result from a competitive atmosphere; while at the same time this policy will avoid the excesses of competition which were ruinous to all but one of the main railways of Canada in the past and which can result only in major added burdens for the taxpayer and, because of the inability of carriers to maintain heavy deficit positions, less satisfactory service to the public.
[DOT] (2:50 p.m.)
In the international field, competition with foreign carriers is already extremely keen and the joint approach by the two Canadian carriers will strengthen their position and provide better over-all service to the travelling public and a strengthening to Canada's position in world aviation.


I say at once that it would have been most helpful if the Opposition could have been furnished with a copy of the hon. gentleman's statement, which was apparently furnished to the press but denied to the Members of the House. It is a course of action that is not in keeping with the vociferous ideas to make Parliament effective, as the other side of the House would sometimes indicate is the purpose of the amendments to the processes of Parliament. No
181C

June 1, 19S5
Civil Aviation Policy
indication was given in advance that this matter would come up, and therefore it is quite impossible to deal with each and every matter referred to. Suffice it to say at the moment that this question will have to be looked into carefully on the basis of the statement made by the Minister. I believe that a day should be set aside for the consideration of this most important matter. Certainly, Parliament has had no opportunity to give any consideration to these matters.
In so far as international air lines are concerned, apparently the world is to be divided, where Canadian lines are concerned, between Air Canada and Canadian Pacific Airlines. On the face of it, that may or may not be fair and in keeping with the assurance that the very best possible service will be assured to Canadians who use these lines. As to domestic air lines, while giving voice support to competition, to the kind of competition that is near and dear to the hearts of high bureaucrats, we find that there is going to be competition, but the competition will be limited by the fact that no lines shall suffer and that competition will be competition if necessary, but not necessarily competition.
I believe this whole question should be brought before a Standing Committee of the House on railways and transportation in general, so that the whole question can be looked into. It is a plan that is made up of many various facets, and when you come to analyse it in the short time that has been available since the Minister started to speak it seems to be one of those plans designed to meet the immediate situation, but not having in it that security and definiteness that the future of aviation ought to have. If Canada is to gain a tremendous lead in the field of civil aviation, its policies should be clearly defined and understandable and at the same time available for the fullest discussion in the House of Commons. I hope that the matter will be brought before a Committee. Certainly, it is a plan that has all the earmarks of having been designated on the drawing board. Whether or not both presidents agreed is beside the question. So far as Canadian Pacific Airlines are concerned, they have to take what they are given.


Mr. Speaker, I would second the words of the right hon. Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Diefenbaker). It would be very helpful if opposition spokesmen could have advance

copies of a complex policy statement such as we heard this afternoon.
I think if we are to have our two major air lines engaged in overseas business, it is well that there should be some agreement between them. At first glance it seems to me the division of the world is not quite equal and that C.P.A. has a much greater territory than Air Canada. In this connection I would be very much interested to see what traffic volumes there are in the divisions allocated to the air lines.
I believe the Minister said that on certain overseas routes C.P.A. would act as an instrument of Government policy. If this is the case, then I think all Members of the House would like to have the opportunity to question officials of C.P.A. in the Railways Committee, as they can now do with officials of Air Canada. If this company is to be acting for the Government in a certain capacity, then it should be open to question by hon. Members, and in the past we have not been able to do this.
Regarding domestic service, the Minister was not too specific concerning transcontinental runs. There is a suggestion that C.P.A. will receive more of the transcontinental routes than it has at present. I would remind him that for several years past, according to the testimony of the President of Air Canada, part of the losses suffered by that company were as a result of C.P.A. entering the transcontinental business. I hope we are not going to have a situation where competition is going to be allowed whether needed or not. We shall have to look into this very carefully.
Any remarks regarding regional air services we shall leave until there is a chance to study the Minister's statement in further detail.


Mr. Speaker, we are interested in the statement made by the Minister of Transport (Mr. Pickersgill) and we too are somewhat concerned about the fact that Parliament has not had the opportunity to deal as fully as it ought with the whole matter of transport policy.
Further, we would be very interested to know more about the regional carriers and where they fit into the picture. Mention was made of the regional carriers as such, and I would point out that the third largest air line in Canada today is Pacific Western Airlines. This air line is one that is giving very good service in the field in which it operates. It is an air line that is growing. It is one that will become more interested in many of the domestic routes presently held by other air
June 1. 1965

lines which provide transcontinental service, and in this connection I refer particularly to C.P.A. and its services on the Pacific coast.
We hope that before too long we will get an opportunity in Parliament to discuss the whole matter of aviation and transportation.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-lll, to amend the Criminal Code (abolition of capital punishment).


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, the purpose of this bill is to abolish capital punishment in its entirety and to substitute therefore in every case a minimum of life imprisonment.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


the first reading of Bill No. S-8 (from the Senate), to amend the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Prime Minister in connection with the Address passed by the Legislative Assembly of the province of Quebec regarding the amendment of the powers of the Legislative Council.
I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether it is not a fact that the Legislature of Quebec consists of the Lieutenant Governor and the two Houses-that is, the Legislative Council and the Legislative Assembly- and whether the Government intends to accept the address that has been prepared by the Legislative Assembly and pass it on with approval to Her Majesty the Queen.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, the Legislative Assembly of Quebec, as my right hon. friend no doubt knows, on Wednesday last approved an address to the Queen concerning the powers of the Legislative Council. It also passed an address to the Governor General requesting him to transmit the address to Her Majesty. Once the addresses were passed, it was the responsibility of the Government of Quebec to advise the Lieutenant Governor of Quebec as to the action he should take with regard to them. Since the passage of the addresses on Wednesday, the Government of Quebec has taken action accordingly, and these addresses were delivered by hand this morning to the Secretary of State for transmission to the Governor General, which is the normal procedure.


These addresses-


The two addresses consist of one from the Legislative Assembly concerning the powers of the Legislative Council, and the other requesting the Governor General to transmit this address to Her Majesty. These two addresses were received before lunch; the Government has not yet had a chance to examine them. The first stage in the procedure was for the Secretary of State to refer the addresses in question to the Governor General, who will then no doubt consult his Federal Ministers as to the advice which should be tendered by him in respect of them.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the petition addressed to Her Majesty from the Legislative Council will be forwarded to the Queen.


I cannot answer that question, Mr. Speaker, because no such address has yet been received by the Government of Canada from the Government of Quebec. I have not yet had an opportunity to examine the addresses that have been received. When I have examined them and the normal procedures have been followed, I will be happy to make a statement in the House.


One other question, if I might, Mr. Speaker. I have before me the Hansard of the Legislature of Quebec, and I ask the Prime Minister this question. The Premier of Quebec said in the Legislature:
-if the Quebec Legislative Assembly approves the address which it is proposed to submit to the Queen, this address will be transmitted to Her Majesty with favourable advice.
1818	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry
Did the Prime Minister so advise the Premier of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, I advised the Premier of Quebec, informally, that if and when the address was received from the Government of Quebec, it would be considered by the Government of Canada and advice would be tendered to the Governor General for transmission to the Queen, in the normal way; and that advice, if the addresses were received in the normal fashion from the Government of Quebec, would be favourable.


You are going to disregard the Legislative Council.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Secretary of State regarding the meeting which he had some days ago with the Chairman of the National Centennial administration. According to an article which appeared in the Toronto Daily Star on May 29, by Peter C. Newman, when the Minister met Mr. Fisher, the Chairman of the Commission, the latter was presented with a typed document, which he was asked to sign, stating that the state of affairs in the Commission was quite satisfactory. The report says that he refused to sign this, and another document was finally drafted. I want to ask the Minister whether this statement is accurate; and if it is, is it the practice of the Minister to ask officials to sign documents which have been prepared in advance?


Mr. Speaker, this is completely without foundation. Mr. Fisher was never asked to sign any document.


Was that Mr. Newman's statement?


A supplementary question to the Secretary of State regarding the question I asked him earlier with reference to the interview he granted to the Commissioner of the Centennial administration. Was the Commissioner asked at any time to agree to a press release or public statement which had been prepared in advance of that meeting?

DEBATES	June 1, 1965


There was a piece of paper shown to the Commissioner. He wanted to review it. He did review it, and it is exactly on the basis of that review that I made my statement to the House the next day.


Do I understand that the piece of paper which was shown to the Commissioner containing the statement as to what had taken place was not the statement which was ultimately issued, but another which had been prepared by the Minister in advance?


The statement I made in the House was prepared by the Commissioner himself.


What about the statement which had been prepared before the meeting? Did the Commissioner refuse to agree to that?


He said he wanted to review it, to have another look at it and perhaps to reword it. And that is what he did.


Is it customary to prepare statements for officials to agree to before they have even met-


Order. We are getting into a debate here.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of the statement that was released yesterday in Victoria, from the office of the Premier of British Columbia, in relation to provincial rights, and in view of the fact that yesterday was the day the Federal-Provincial conference was scheduled to have started, according to the original plans, can the Prime Minister inform the House whether or not he has had word from the various Premiers, and when he expects to call this conference?


Mr. Speaker, I have not yet received replies from all the Premiers; at least, I had not this morning. As soon as I have received replies from them all, as I indicated the other day I will be glad to make a statement in the House as to the plans for convening the Federal-Provincial conference. The suggestion we have made is, as I have told the House already, that it should take place in July. As soon as the replies are all in I will make
June 1. 1965	COMMONS DEBATES	1819
Inquiries of the Ministry
a statement in the House. I hope that will be one, and I am sure he will make his usual within the next day or two.	constructive contribution to the discussion.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could I ask the Prime Minister whether at the same time he will be able to give to the House the agenda which will be used for that conference; and could he at this time give us an assurance that on the agenda there will be provision for a discussion of the implementation of the Hall Commission recommendations?


Mr. Speaker, when the agenda has been agreed on by all the Premiers and the governments of the Provinces, of course I see no reason why I should not make a statement in the House to that effect. I can, I think, assure my hon. friend now that the subject he has mentioned will certainly be on the agenda.


In that connection, Mr. Speaker, would the Prime Minister say whether there will be anything on the agenda respecting the rights of the Provinces to interfere with interprovincial trade, or trade between one Province and the United States of America? I am speaking particularly of the differences between the governments of Newfoundland and Quebec in this connection, and the asserted right of the Province of Quebec to prevent power from the Churchill Falls being transmitted across provincial lines.


I cannot say offhand whether that subject has been proposed for the agenda or not; but as soon as the agenda has been agreed on, I will make a statement to the House. I mentioned medicare because I have already indicated that this was considered to be a very important subject both by the Provinces and the Federal Government, and I think it is generally understood that this would be a major subject for consideration. I am not quite sure with regard to this other point, but I will be glad to let the House know as soon as the agenda has been agreed on.


I thank the Prime Minister for his answer. Has he any knowledge yet whether Premier Smallwood will depart from his decision of removing himself from these conferences, and will turn up at this one?


Mr. Speaker, I am quite certain that Mr. Smallwood will be at the next conference, as he was at the previous 22620-117


Oh, oh.


It may be too constructive.


A supplementary question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. Will the Canada Assistance Plan be on the agenda?


Mr. Speaker, if I keep on answering all these questions I will soon be telling the House what the agenda is, and it has not yet been agreed on. My hon. friend knows that this is a very important subject for consideration also.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce?
The Minister stated recently that he would endeavour to interest American automobile firms and their subsidiaries, together with the Canadian automobile firms, to erect a pavilion at the 1967 World Fair. Can he tell us if he took such steps and what are the results thereof?


Mr. Speaker, I have had some discussions both with American companies that have subsidiaries in Canada and with a great many Canadian companies some of which are subsidiaries of American companies. The purpose of these discussions has been to acquaint them with the great opportunities that will arise if they do exhibit in Montreal in 1967.
I am intending to have another discussion, as the newspapers have said, this week with some companies in Detroit. 1 intend to go on and have others for as long as I have time and as long as Expo has time. I am not in a position to say just what the results of these particular visits have been, but I am happy to report that commercial exhibitions at Expo are increasing daily and I have every reason to think that both Canadian-owned and foreign-owned companies will be well represented at Expo.
1820	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry


A supplementary question. Is it a fact that Canada's Big Three in the automobile industry have withdrawn their options for individual pavilions and lots at Expo '67?


Mr. Speaker, I am not really in a position to answer the question because I am not quite certain of the facts. I have seen these reports in the papers, but I have not yet had an opportunity of talking to the management of Expo on this particular subject. But I have every reason to think that the automobile companies, which are one of the most important groups of commercial organizations in this country, will play their part at Expo in 1967.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In view of the fact that the port manager of Montreal has accused the Ontario Hydro of stealing water from the harbour of Montreal and that General McNaughton has accused the United States of stealing water from Canada, will the Minister make his promised statement on the proposed plans of his Department for building dikes and other waterworks on Lake St. Pierre while there is still a few feet of water left in the St. Lawrence River?


Mr. Speaker, I undertake to give a statement to the House on this matter before I make my long awaited speech on this subject to the Port Council of Montreal on the 14th of this month.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Transport?
Is the Minister aware of the fact that the low water level in the Great Lakes and in the St. Lawrence river may be caused by a too heavy rainfall due to the rain making machines in the Abitibi and Lake St. John districts?


I will have to think about that, Sir.

DEBATES	June 1. 1965


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct to the Minister of Forestry a question which is precisely connected with the question raised by the hon. member for Lapointe.
Is the Minister of Forestry directly or indirectly implicated in the seeding of clouds now taking place above northern Quebec forests?


Mr. Speaker, we are implicated neither directly nor indirectly.


Has the
minister met Mr. Rene Levesque or Hon. M. O. Courcy to discuss this matter recently, say about two weeks ago?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Defence and, in his absence, may I put it to the Associate Minister of National
Defence?
Can the minister tell us whether the R.C.A.F. Voodoos stationed at Bagotville are actually used for the seeding of clouds in the Saguenay-Lake St. John area?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Labour. Can the Minister of Labour explain to the House why at this date that runaway criminal, Harold Chamberlain Banks, is still President of the Canadian Seafarers Building Corporation Limited, a private company which controls all properties owned by the Seafarers International Union in Canada?


No, Mr. Speaker, I cannot explain something which I do not believe is correct.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Labour (Mr. MacEachen) relating to the Minister's suggestion that he could not explain or answer the question posed by the hon. Member for Kootenay West (Mr. Herridge). How can the Minister of Labour refer to it as not being factual?
June 1, 1965


Order, please. Surely that is argument. If the hon. Member wishes detailed information perhaps he will put his question on the order paper. It strikes me that this is the type of question in respect of which the Minister may or may not have the answer at this moment. Perhaps the answer can be obtained.


I have a further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the Minister give consideration to the suggestion that when this committee is set up to look into this matter Department of Labour officials and union members will be invited to appear before that committee as witnesses, at which time perhaps the Minister will explain the question asked by the hon. Member for Kootenay West, which is, in fact, a factual one?


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce or the Minister of Labour. Considering the national importance of grain shipments to mainland China from Canada, I wonder if the Minister could bring me up to date on the progress of negotiations in the dispute between the grain handlers union and elevator operators in Vancouver and New Westminster?


Discussions resumed yesterday in Vancouver between the employers and employees. The Department of Labour has placed at the disposal of the parties the services of our chief officer on the West Coast. It is my information that discussions are still continuing, or hope to be continued, in an effort to resolve the dispute.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice so that he may not feel left out. Will he make a statement to the House regarding the allegations that have been made in the U.S.S.R. to the effect that the Embassy or other units connected with the U.S.S.R. Embassy have been bugged-to use the expression-and at the same time, while I am sure denying this, would he let the country know the number of times the Canadian Embassy or associated
22620-117*
Inquiries of the Ministry Canadian bodies in Moscow were actually bugged during the past year by the U.S.S.R.?


Mr. Speaker, first of all I thank the right hon. gentleman for relieving my frustrations by not forgetting me. Second, I can answer at the moment the first part of his question in no better way, I think, than by quoting the way his own Government, very properly, answered through the then Solicitor General, Hon. J. W. Browne, who speaking for the Minister of Justice on February 26, 1962, in the House of Commons, had this to say, as reported at page 1245 of Hansard:
In accordance with long established policy I am declining to answer this question in the public interest. Questions such as this, and all others which have been asked regarding investigational procedures, could in due course, if answered, lead to disclosure of all methods which must necessarily be employed to protect the security of this country. Such revelations would be of great interest and value to groups within and outside Canada who have used conspiratorial methods to obtain Canadian information to which they are not entitled.
There should be no inference taken from my remarks and the form of my reply because such discussions, in whatever form they take, can only tend to imperil the difficult investigations which have to be carried out in the interests of our country. The policy of this government, and previous governments, has been to decline to answer such questions as not being in the interests of the public, and there is no intention of changing this policy.
I wish to make this statement as mine under my full responsibility.


Mr. Speaker, I want to congratulate the Minister for following the course we followed in anything, because this is about the only time the Government are right; but in order to keep the record clear would the Minister read what was the question, rather than the answer, because I have the question before me? Would he read the question?


Mr. Speaker, I know this answer was given to a similar question relating-


Oh, oh.


Read the question.


What are you ducking under?


-relating to the methods followed by the R.C.M. Police in investigating security matters.


Read the question.


This answer, which was given through my Parliamentary Secretary on
1822	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry March 22, 1965, as reported at page 12631 of Hansard, was in reply to a question concerning the tapping of telephones.


Would the Minister, with less evasion than he usually shows, now read the question?


Hear, hear.


Order, please. It does seem to the Chair that we are getting into an argument.


Who started it?


Order. I do not think it is proper for the Minister to read the question.


In this regard, Mr. Speaker,
I adopted the words I quoted as my answer in relation to the question asked by the right hon. gentleman.


Mr. Speaker, why does the Minister not read the question? There is no similarity between that and asking about security measures for the assurance of Canadians, so that we will all know that the U.S.S.R. is falsifying the facts when it endeavours to lead Canadians and those in other parts of the world to believe that Canada uses this system of the U.S.S.R. in its Embassy.


Mr. Speaker, I must say that this is precisely the type of question which should never be asked in this House by a responsible Member.


Mr. Speaker, on the same subject I would like to put to the Minister of Justice a very specific question which will be easily answered.
Could he tell us which member of the Liberal team asked that question at the time?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Justice. Will the Minister tell the House whether or not he has any information as to the whereabouts of the 238 barrels of cobalt that were stolen from the Government warehouse, and whether or not this is related to Soviet espionage activities?


Mr. Speaker, I did not receive a report in this regard yesterday, but the latest report was to the effect that we have no information as yet.

DEBATES	June 1, 1965


May I answer a question which was put to me some minutes ago by the Leader of the Opposition asking about the question which preceded an answer given by the Solicitor General?


Privilege?


No, this is an answer to a question. On February 26, 1962, question No. 82 was put by the hon. Member for Skeena in the following terms:
Does the Royal Canadian Mounted Police engage in the practice of telephone line tapping or listening in on, or recording telephone conversations between people who are not members of the said force?
And the answer was general, and is related to all investigational proceedings of the R.C.M.P.


Hear, hear.


After his lame attempt to recover himself I would ask the Minister of Justice why it was, then, that a statement was made on either Friday or Saturday by the Department of External Affairs to the effect that there was no such thing taking place in the embassy in Canada? This was told to the press. Why should not Parliament have the same information?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question relating to uranium to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Has any approach been made to the United Kingdom and the United States Governments asking them to accept formally the rule of inspection and control by Canada governing any future sales of uranium to the United Kingdom or the United States in order to satisfy the French Government, and if so what answer has been received?


Mr. Speaker, within the next few days I will be making a full statement, so perhaps I can take this question as notice.
June 1. 1965	COMMONS DEBATES	1823


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Transport arising from his statement regarding international air policy. Will the Minister assure the House that he will not accept the implication contained in the remarks of the hon. Member for Burn-aby-Richmond (Mr. Prittie), to the effect that the international area assigned to Canadian Pacific Airlines is too large and should be reduced, and will he assure the House that the area assigned to C.P.A. will remain as stated by the Minister?


Surely if this question is in order it should be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport relating to his announcement concerning future air policy. The Minister referred to Canadian Pacific Airlines and Air Canada as being the chosen agents or some like phrase, of the Government regarding international air transportation. Will the Minister indicate whether this relates to all international air transportation or to merely overseas international air transportation?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. gentleman has in mind the United States, I think if he will refer to my statement he will see that I suggested that until the bilateral negotiations now going on are completed, that question has been left in abeyance.


I take it, then, that the Government is probably inclined to look favourably upon applications from regional air carriers for international air services to points in the United States.


I am afraid that until a bilateral agreement is concluded it would be rather a waste of anyone's time to make application for something we may or may not get.


Just how are the bilateral talks getting on? Some weeks ago the Minister gave an answer
Inquiries of the Ministry which seemed to indicate that they were bogged down.


The bilateral talks are still in progress.


Oh, oh.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
In order that dairy farmers, cheese factories and operators of manufacturing plants be well aware of the administrative details of the new dairy policy for the year 1965-66, could the Minister issue a clear and definite statement outlining these details as well as the approximate dates for the payment of adjustment and deficiency payments to producers?


Surely this is also a question for the order paper.


I should like to debate the question at ten o'clock.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
Could he tell us whether it is his intention to put back into force the act on cold storage subsidies in abeyance since 1962? [Text]


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. Member was referring to refrigeration. In so far as the grants in respect of additions to cheese factories are concerned, they have been in force for some months, but I know of no policy relating to refrigeration, unless it is connected to cold storage grants.


have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact the subject matter of the previous question is dairy farming, I should like to ask the Minister whether last week when he met with dairy producers he said
1824	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry the same thing to them as he said in this House, namely that dairy farmers never had it so good?


Mr. Speaker, of course I did not say that in the first place.


Yes, you did.


I will be glad to provide the hon. Member with a very detailed answer to this question tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Defence Production (Mr. Drury), I should like to address my question to the right hon. Prime Minister. I understand that the Government is proposing to call for nationwide bids for the two tidal survey ships and an oceanographic research vessel. I have copies of protest telegrams from the Mayor of Victoria and the Victoria Labour Council to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that one of the tidal ships and the oceanographic research vessel are to be stationed on the Pacific coast, and in view of the concern and uncertainty of the west coast shipbuilding industry, will the Government reconsider its policy in favour of the traditional method of calling for bids on a regional basis or, as an alternative, on a man-hour basis so as to give the west coast shipyards a reasonable chance in this bidding?


Mr, Speaker, this matter is now under urgent consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Labour. In view of the large number of applications for extension of the winter works incentive benefits which have not been accepted by his Department, will the Minister look into this matter to see whether he can put an end to the discrimination arising from the ruling that a project must require at least five months' work for completion?


Mr. Speaker, I will, of course, be glad to consider any view put forward by the hon.
[Mr. Grafftey.)
DEBATES	June 1, 1965
Member, but I do not admit that any discrimination arises from an application of the five months requirement in this particular situation.


I have a supplementary question. Has it not come to the Minister's attention that only eight of approximately 70 applications in the Province of Saskatchewan have been declared eligible because of this ruling?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, but I do not conclude that that result is related in any way to the rule being applied in a discriminatory manner.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Yesterday the Canadian Minister of Defence (Mr. Hellyer) offered additional or greater Canadian support to NATO, possibly in the form of men and transport. I wonder whether the Minister can tell this House how many additional men might be involved and how much more this is going to cost the Canadian Government?


Mr. Speaker, my colleague, the Minister of National Defence, will be back in Ottawa tomorrow. As this was a meeting of the Defence Ministers of NATO, to which the hon. gentleman has referred, I think he will agree that I should take this question as notice and pass it on to the Minister of National Defence.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct to the Associate Minister of National Defence a question of national importance.
Is there any truth to the report sent out to the press, that CF-101 aircraft will be equipped with nuclear warheads?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Is it true that the storage of those nuclear warheads will cost Canada $8 million per year?
June 1. 1965	COMMONS


Mr. Speaker,
I should like to take this question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. I refer to the answer given last Friday by the minister who said that the general question as to the propriety of disclosing names of accused, in certain cases, is under consideration.
Would the minister tell the house who is studying this question? Is it the minister or his officials? Has a special committee been set up to settle the matter? If so, under whose authority was the committee appointed?
Finally, could the Minister tell us what precise restrictions he has in mind regarding disclosure of such names?


Surely that is a very good question for the order paper.


This question was allowed on Friday, Mr. Speaker, and it received very wide coverage in the press. Certain vital questions pertaining to the remarks made by the Minister of Justice were left unanswered, however, and I think the hon. gentleman owes the House an explanation on these points.


Hear, hear.


Order, please. I still maintain that at the present time and under the present circumstances this is a good question for the order paper.


shall try to get an answer from the Minister of Justice involving the restriction of the freedom of the press and freedom of information. Will the Minister undertake, while he is giving this matter "very serious consideration", to consult judges, lawyers and people engaged in the news media field before he reaches a final decision?


Perhaps I could answer this question. I have had an opportunity of discussing this matter with the Minister of Justice who indicated on Friday, I believe, when I was not in the
DEBATES	1825
Inquiries of the Ministry House, that he was looking into the question of securing the rights of individuals when false charges were made against them. The Minister has not indicated, and he did not indicate at that time, that any such action is required along the lines suggested; certainly he did not go so far as to make any recommendation to the Government. It is, of course, his duty to look into questions of this kind which are brought to his attention. The House can be assured that there is no possibility of any Government or any Government department interfering with the important principle of the freedom of the press to report the news in accordance with the law.


Oh, oh.


But the Minister of Justice
was doing his duty as Minister of Justice in looking into other aspects of this matter which concern the rights of individuals.


I should like the Prime Minister to answer my question. Before the Minister of Justice takes any decision in this regard will he get information from those who are knowledgeable in this field?


Of course, in coming to decisions on these matters the Minister of Justice takes the advice of competent persons. If the Minister of Justice in his wisdom thinks it necessary to make a recommend