Mr. Speaker, I have pleasure in drawing your attention and that of hon. members to the presence in the Speaker's gallery of a charming young visitor from Japan, Miss Hiroko Koba.
Miss Koba was selected by a jury of prominent Japanese citizens and the Canadian Ambassador in Japan as Miss Japan-Canada Friendship, and is touring Canada in the interests of promoting trade and friendship between our two countries. On her return to Japan Miss Koba will open the Canadian exhibit at the Tokyo international trade fair.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, last Thursday the right hon. Leader of the Opposition raised as a question of privilege the procedure before the Quebec legislature of an address to Her Majesty by the legislature on the subject of the constitutional amendment procedure. The right hon. gentleman then affirmed, and I quote from Hansard:
-addresses to the sovereign, asking for action in the British parliament, cannot, according to constitutional authorities, be made by a province or any of the provinces.
On Thursday I said I would deal with this matter at some length today, because it required to be dealt with at some length. I would like permission to do that, Mr. Speaker, in view of the importance of the matter and the strong reaction it has caused in Quebec.
So far as the right hon. gentleman's statement is concerned, that addresses to the sovereign "cannot, according to constitutional authorities, be made by a province or any of the provinces," I would be interested to know
who are these authorities; because in the study I have been able to make of this matter over the week end I have been unable to find any support for his assertion among any of the best known Canadian constitutional authorities whom I have consulted.
The right hon. gentleman also suggested that if I, as Prime Minister, were to inform the Queen-
-that it is in order that any one province may do this,
-then I would in effect have accepted the theory-
-that there can be sovereign states within this nation.
With due respect, Mr. Speaker, this statement has no foundation in fact and is quite wrong.
In putting forward this view, in criticizing the right of the legislature of Quebec to pass an address to the Sovereign, the right hon. gentleman has already provoked a strong reaction in Quebec, and quite understandably so.
First of all, Mr. Speaker, the proposed address by the legislature of Quebec reproduces the text of "an act to provide for the amendment in Canada of the constitution of Canada", the preamble of which refers to the addresses of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada requesting enactment of the act by the parliament of the United Kingdom. The address from Quebec therefore itself recognizes that action by the parliament of the United Kingdom cannot be taken unless and until the parliament of Canada has approved and submitted an address to Her Majesty.
Second, such an address can only properly be sent to the Sovereign through the Governor General. I have been assured by the Quebec authorities that this is precisely the procedure which they intend to follow, and which has been followed in the past. The Governor General, in this as in any other matter, acts on the advise of his responsible federal ministers.
Third, since this action requested in the address by the legislature of Quebec is the same as that which may be requested in an address by the parliament of Canada, it would be appropriate to advise the crown, in

Question of Privilege
forwarding it to London, in the event that it is sent forward to the Governor General through the lieutenant governor of Quebec and through the Governor General to London, that it should be acknowledged as the expression of the view of the legislature of Quebec about a matter on which action could be taken only on the basis of a decision by the parliament of Canada on the address to be placed before it.
Finally, there is ample precedent for an address to the crown from a province on constitutional matters. For example, in 1870 the house of assembly of Nova Scotia approved an address concerning Canadian confederation and the position of the province in it. In 1879 it asked, in another address to the Queen, for an amendment to the British North America Act respecting the composition of the legislative council of Nova Scotia. In 1894 Nova Scotia passed yet another address to the Queen, praying "that Your Majesty's government may be graciously pleased to recommend to the imperial parliament" an amendment to the British North America Act providing this time for the abolition of the legislative council of Nova Scotia. In 1888 the legislative assembly of New Brunswick endorsed resolutions approved by the interprovincial conference of the previous year, with an address to the lieutenant governor to convey the resolutions to Her Majesty "humbly praying Her Majesty to graciously cause her parliament to be moved to amend" the British North America Act accordingly.
Provincial addresses dealing with other than constitutional matters have also been made from time to time. For example, in 1876 the legislative assembly of British Columbia addressed a petition to the Queen respecting an alleged breach by Canada of her railway engagements with the province. In 1880 the legislative council and house of assembly of Prince Edward Island adopted a lengthy address to the Queen respecting the claim of the province for compensation for the use of its fisheries by citizens of the United States under the treaty of Washington of 1871.
Provinces have also on a number of occasions petitioned the British government direct on constitutional matters, as an alternative to an address to the sovereign. Thus in 1888 the provinces of Quebec, Ontario, Nova Scotia and Manitoba endorsed the resolutions approved by the interprovincial conference of 1887 proposing various readjustments of the constitution, and requested that they be forwarded through the Governor General to the secretary of state for the colonies. Similarly,

in 1907 the legislative assembly of British Columbia approved a resolution protesting against the financial settlement which was the subject of the constitutional amendment of that year, and requested that it be transmitted through the Governor General to the secretary of state for the colonies.
The precedents mentioned above will more than suffice to show that the legislature of Quebec is acting with constitutional propriety in the procedure it has chosen to adopt.
There is therefore, Mr. Speaker, no question of privilege, in my view, in the matter raised by the right hon. Leader of the Opposition, nor is there any substance in his contentions. The net effect of his intervention has been merely to add, unfortunately, to the difficulties that face us in trying to resolve our current constitutional problems in a way that will strengthen, not weaken, confederation.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has not read the authorities very carefully, if he has read them at all.


I have read the addresses.


As a matter of fact the statement he read indicated that he had not made any study of the subject but had simply been provided with a brief. I therefore intend to refer to some of the cases of which he has spoken.
I begin by pointing out that there is no case in Canadian history where a provincial legislature has proceeded in this way. I am going to read once more the motion which is before the legislature of Quebec:
Quebec parliament act-Motion-
That an humble address be presented to Her Majesty the Queen in the following words:
To the Queen's most Excellent Majesty:
Most Gracious Sovereign:
We, Your Majesty's most dutiful and loyal subjects, the legislative assembly of the province of Quebec, in parliament assembled, humbly approach Your Majesty praying that you may graciously be pleased to cause a measure to be made before the parliament of the United Kingdom, to be expressed as follows:
I point out that the resolution is one which is directed to the Sovereign, praying that the Sovereign will do those things which are set out therein. In other words the Sovereign is being asked by a resolution passed by the legislature of one province alone to make a most sweeping amendment affecting the dominion and every province therein.
I would point out that there is no case, as I said the other day, where a provincial

legislature has ever before passed a resolution dealing with matters under the jurisdiction of other provinces or the dominion in the terms expressly set out by me a few moments ago. As a matter of fact there have been addresses, as is generally known, passed by legislatures in respect of matters within the jurisdiction of the legislatures, and I will refer to them at some length.
Reference was made by the Prime Minister to the petition sent to the Queen in 1876 by British Columbia on the Pacific railway question. In 1881 there was a petition to the Queen on the same question, dealing with a matter within the territorial jurisdiction of British Columbia, to be forwarded to Amor De Cosmos, special agent of the province in London, to present to Her Majesty's government. This was actually presented to the secretary of state for the colonies.
Reference was also made to Nova Scotia, where in 1868 an address was presented asking for the repeal of the British North America Act in so far as it affected Nova Scotia. Again I emphasize that any address that was passed by any province at any time had to do particularly with those things which came within the jurisdiction of the province. In that case the lieutenant governor was to forward it to the foot of the throne.
In 1879 the legislative council had refused to consent to its own abolition, so the assembly passed an address to the Queen asking for an amendment to the British North America Act to empower the lieutenant governor of Nova Scotia-I again emphasize this-to add nine members to the legislative council. This address was to be sent to the Governor General, for him to forward to the foot of the throne; and it was followed by an address to the lieutenant governor informing him of the assembly's action.
In 1881 there was a motion to address the Queen, but a negativing amendment was passed. That was followed by an address in 1894 which arose out of a further abortive attempt to abolish the legislative council. In every case the address covered only matters within the jurisdiction of the province concerned. I may also refer to what took place in 1880 in Prince Edward Island in regard to fisheries.
It is interesting to note what happened after Mercier's interprovincial conference of 1887, which was the first conference at which the provinces met the dominion. Five provinces at that time asked for amendments to the British North America Act, but not one of them did so in the form of an address to
Question of Privilege
the crown or to the Queen. They all adopted identical sets of resolutions, being those passed by the conference itself, but then proceeded in different ways.
On May 26 and 28, 1888 Quebec made an address to the lieutenant governor to be transmitted by him to the Governor General and the secretary of state of Canada. Ontario followed the same procedure. Nova Scotia followed the procedure of adopting an address to the lieutenant governor to be transmitted through the Governor General to the secretary of state for the colonies. New Brunswick passed an address to the lieutenant governor to be conveyed to Her Majesty, humbly praying Her Majesty to graciously cause her parliament to be moved to amend the British North America Act in respect of the matters set out in the resolution. Manitoba passed an address to the lieutenant governor to communicate to the Governor General and the secretary of state the concurrence of the assembly in resolutions. In none of these cases did a provincial legislature pass an address to the Queen asking for amendments to the British North America Act applying to the whole country.
Perhaps the examples I have given will indicate the difficulty involved in reading general statements without examining the authorities to realize that there is a vast difference. The Nova Scotia addresses asking for amendments dealt with proposals affecting only Nova Scotia.
It is also of great importance when listening to the Prime Minister quoting what happened in 1878 and 1884 to note that those were times when we had a democratic government in Canada which was representative and responsible; quite a different situation from that of today.
There has not been one case in the last 70 years during which tremendous constitutional changes have taken place as the result of any kind of address from any province, which certainly would indicate that the changing constitutional development no longer recognizes the right of a province to even petition the crown by an address in respect of matters coming specifically within the jurisdiction of the province. Even if we were to assume that an address dealing with one province was proper in those times, there is nothing at all to indicate that it would be proper now, and no constitutional authority has taken that stand. This was a sheer facile way of speaking on the part of the Prime Minister. No constitutional authority takes the same stand.

Question of Privilege
I simply point out to him that nothing of the kind has happened in 70 years, yet in 1965 we have resolutions from various provinces to the effect that the basis of the formula for the repatriation of the constitution and also for amending the constitution, as agreed to at a dominion-provincial conference, is acceptable. The fact that there has been no case of this kind in 70 years would indicate how unprecedented is this action of the legislature of the province of Quebec. The address from the legislature of the province of Quebec does not say anything about parliament or any other legislature asking for anything, but simply says that the Quebec assembly humbly prays that Her Majesty may graciously be pleased to cause a measure to be made before the parliament of the United Kingdom, to be expressed as follows.
Sir, what the Prime Minister has done is simply to produce a red herring by dealing with a number of cases that have no reference to the terms of the present attempt at an address on the part of the province of Quebec. What has taken place, therefore, is in keeping with the kind of theory that this government plays hot and cold with, namely that there can be states within this nation. Naturally, finding there is criticism of that stand in that it is a complete denial of the whole basis of confederation, the Prime Minister comes along and plays that old Liberal tune; "When you do not agree with what a Liberal government does then you are causing disorder." In other words peace, order and good government in this nation consist in saying that Liberal governments have a monopoly in their desire for national unity.


Hear, hear,


Sir, the applause from the government benches indicates they have accepted that spurious argument and believe it to be a fact. The Prime Minister tried to cover up by saying, as he has to do, of course -because after all what the premier of Quebec says in connection with pensions and the like-


Oh, oh.


Shame.


The hon. lady says
"shame".


I sure do.


She should be the last to speak on that subject. All I say in that connection is that they tried to cover up their tracks and the Prime Minister has endeav-

oured to fall into the same position as the premier of Quebec did on Friday.
I must admit that when I read that I was going to be brought before the bar for daring to speak in the House of Commons of Canada I was frightened. I had to ask the nature of the bar. It is an old shibboleth of Liberalism, Mr. Speaker, that when they are in difficulty they speak about unity. Yet in a period of two years this government has done more to chisel away unity by the attitude displayed again today by the Prime Minister than any government since 1867.
This course being taken by the legislature of Quebec is wrong constitutionally. The Prime Minister tried to defend it because he has to, but he was not able to produce one solitary case in Canadian history when a legislature had a petition addressed to the sovereign to bring about changes that would affect not only the province of Quebec but other provinces. It was irregular; it is irregular. All I have to say through you, sir, to the premier of Quebec is that while I am very frightened I shall be saying outside the house what I have said here.
We have not yet come to a point in Canada where the premier of any province, when he disagrees with views expressed in parliament, can say that punishment will come. I do not know what the punishment would be. I think it was provided under Edward I that in a case where disorder was caused the person would be dragged to Tyburn, there to be submitted to cruel and unnatural punishment. Beyond that I am not particularly affected by the outburst of the premier of Quebec, which indicates there was reason and responsibility and constitutional fact in what I brought before the house; and having done so, to be met by that old argument that when you don't agree with anything these people do you are-


Anti-Quebec.


-anti-Quebec. That is their story.


The same old cry.


I am glad that came from the hon. gentleman. This kind of thing does not tend to that unity of which the Prime Minister prates but to which he contributes by doing so much to undermine it.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Leader of the Opposition one question. It arises out of

an incident which took place at a time when both he and I were in the house. Is it not a fact that in 1943, when the parliament of Canada petitioned the crown to amend the British North America Act to postpone the redistribution then due until after the war, the legislature of Quebec petitioned the crown asking that that amendment not be passed? Was this not a case of a provincial legislature making a request to the crown with respect to something that affected all of Canada?


I am very glad the hon. gentleman brought that up, because those people who today occupy the treasury benches damned Duplessis for that. They said it was quite wrong, quite unjust and quite improper, and his answer was "This has to do with our fair distributive share under the constitution. In other words, we are entitled to 65 seats in the parliament of Canada. This will interfere with that fair share, and therefore is a matter strictly within the jurisdiction and right of the province of Quebec."


Hear, hear.


On the constitutional point, Mr. Speaker, perhaps you will let me say a word in reply to what the right hon. gentleman has said. He has criticized the legislature of Quebec because, in his words, it is attempting to do something in an address to the crown that has never been done in our history-those were the words he used-in that it is purporting to pass an address which concerns more than the province of Quebec. According to him that has never been done before in our history.
I was going to mention the precedent referred to by my hon. friend from Winnipeg North Centre. That has now been done, but does the right hon. gentleman believe for a minute that an address to Her Majesty by the legislature of Nova Scotia, even though it was as far back as 1870, asking for Nova Scotia to be released from confederation was not a matter that concerned the whole of confederation?


Hear, hear.


And would the right hon. gentleman believe that an address to the British parliament in 1907, direct from the legislative assembly of that province, against the financial settlement which was the subject of a constitutional amendment of that year, did not concern the whole of Canada?


No, it just concerned Nova Scotia.
Question of Privilege


Mr. Speaker, it has been done before, and the right hon. gentleman in attempting to single out Quebec for special mention at this time-


There you go again.


I rise on a question of privilege. That last statement is another of those smear designs-


Oh, oh.


Hear, hear.


A government smear.


-and it is hardly in keeping with the position of one who is Prime Minister to raise an argument so untruthful and so unjustified.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, this is a question of privilege just for the purpose of keeping the record straight. Earlier when I asked the Leader of the Opposition if he recalled the occasion in 1943 when the legislature of Quebec petitioned the crown, he replied that he did, and that the federal government of that day condemned Duplessis for this action.
I was puzzled by this comment; therefore I have been checking the Parliamentary Guide. I find that Mr. Duplessis was not premier in 1943. Hon. J. A. Godbout was premier of Quebec, heading a Liberal administration, from November 9, 1939 until August 29, 1944. I am not seeking to reopen the argument, but I just thought the record should be kept straight.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of privilege affecting not the rights and privileges of legislatures but the rights and privileges of that rather forgotten creature, the ordinary citizen. This affects not only every member of parliament but every Canadian citizen.
I have in my hand a letter I received this morning from the office of the President of the United Arab Republic, and it is clearly marked so. It was addressed to me at the House of Commons. To my surprise, and later to my dismay when I thought of the matter, I found also on the envelope this stamp; "National revenue of Canada-customs and excise-May 27, 1965-cleared by customs."

Question of Privilege
I would point out to you, Mr. Speaker, that this is a flat envelope which obviously could have contained no dutiable goods, and it raises some very serious questions in one's mind. The first is, is mail coming into Canada subject to censorship? If so, by what authority and, if so, by what criterion do the post office authorities turn it over to the customs and revenue department?
I am not concerned about it being addressed to a member of parliament; if I were a private citizen I would feel just as disturbed by this incident as I am now. I am going to turn this envelope over to the Minister of National Revenue with its contents, which he is welcome to read. I may further say it is a reply to a letter I wrote to President Nasser after I returned last year from my visit as a guest of the Arabian authorities, and I am at a complete loss to understand what authority the customs department has and, second, by what criterion do letters now come to be cleared by customs.
I am going to send this envelope over to the Minister of National Revenue. I hope he will consult his colleague the Postmaster General, and I hope tomorrow, between them, they will be able to come up with a reasonable explanation that will reassure Canadians that their mail is not liable to censorship, and they need not have the anxieties that citizens of a police state endure.


Mr. Speaker, I would be most pleased to look into the matter raised by the hon. member, but I should not let it go a moment beyond now without assuring him that mail coming into Canada is not subject to censorship by my department.


I will add something to that, Mr. Speaker. I cannot say positively that that letter was opened, but if the minister would examine the flap he will see there are very good grounds for suspicion that it was steamed open and very carelessly closed again. Further, how could his department mark it "cleared" unless they examined it?


Mr. Speaker, with permission of the house I should like to answer the question of privilege raised by the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands after having consulted with the officials of my department.


Does the minister have permission?


Agreed.


I am informed that first class mail coming into Canada is sorted at the post office, and items which might conceivably contain commercial importations are turned over to the customs officers. If customs, on examining the outside of the item, decide no further examination is required, it is stamped and returned to the Post Office Department. If further examination is required, then the addressee is asked to come to customs where an examination is held in the addressee's presence and in the presence of a post office official. First class mail is never opened by my department except in the presence of the addressee.
In the case of items other than first class mail, such as parcels etc., these are turned over to the customs officers by the post office. Our customs officers then open them to see if the contents are in accord with the declaration. If this is the case they are marked "free" and mailed on to the address. If duty is due and payable, a card is sent to the addressee giving him a choice of picking it up and paying the duty or having it delivered through the post office and paying the duty when it is delivered to him. In the latter case I am referring to mail other than first class mail. First class mail is never opened by my department except in the presence of the addressee.


Mr. Speaker, this does not answer my question of privilege at all. By no stretch of the imagination could this envelope have been considered to contain dutiable matter. If it could, every letter which comes through the mail would be in that category. It was a perfectly flat envelope obviously containing nothing which would be of interest to the customs branch, and I am not at all satisfied with the answer which the minister has given me.


Mr. Speaker, may I just repeat the last part of my statement, that first class mail is never opened except in the presence of the addressee. I have in front of me the envelope, which, in my opinion might very well contain some item which is dutiable; it is quite a heavy envelope. Therefore it was turned over by the Post Office Department to my department. They decided that no further examination was required other than looking at the outside of the envelope, and it was

Game and Fish Laws INDIAN AFFAIRS
stamped and sent on to my hon. friend without being opened.


May I ask the minister whether every flat envelope sent by first class mail is referred to his department? Can he tell me of any possible thing which might be in the envelope which would be dutiable?


May I say in answer to this question that this is not the case; only envelopes which are such that they could contain dutiable material are referred to my department.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue, which arises out of the question of privilege raised earlier in the day by the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands. Did the envelope submitted to his department and which was mailed to the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands, contain any blueprints and, in the event that it did, would the blueprints then be dutiable?


Mr. Speaker, I am completely unaware of its contents. We did not open the envelope, as I mentioned earlier, and would not open it except in the presence of the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to table copies in English and French of a report by the tariff board on reference 123, which covers radio, television and related products. I am tabling also a transcript of the evidence presented at the public hearings held by the board.
This report contains recommendations regarding radio and television equipment, phonographs, radio communication and navigation equipment as well as electron tubes, transistors and other components, parts and materials used in their production. I assure hon. members that these recommendations will be carefully considered by the government. May I urge interested parties who wish to comment on this report to do so promptly.


Mr. Speaker, the hunting and fishing rights of Indians is a most complicated matter, as most hon. members know. Several decisions of the courts and questions asked in this house within the past year have raised questions as to what steps the government should take to safeguard the hunting and fishing rights of our Indians.
Unfortunately over the years some inconsistencies have developed in the application of game and fishing laws to Indians in different parts of Canada. While the government of Canada has endeavoured to protect the rights of the Indians, seemingly it has not done so in all instances. Regulations have been introduced which on closer study indicate that some of the rights of, and assurances given to, the Indians may not have been adequately safeguarded.
The recent conviction of Michael Sikyea, an Indian living in the Northwest Territories, for killing one wild duck during a closed season contrary to regulations made under the Migratory Birds Convention Act illustrates the problem clearly. The court of appeal of the Northwest Territories referred to the regulations as a "breach of faith" and expressed dissatisfaction with the law as it stands.
The government recognises the seriousness of the problem, and I am pleased to announce that it has directed that an inter-departmental committee, composed of officials of the departments of citizenship and immigration, external affairs, fisheries, justice, northern affairs and national resources and the R.C.M. Police, to be chaired by the representative of the justice department, be established to conduct a comparative study of the promises contained in the various Indian treaties and surrenders as related to the laws respecting game and fish.
The committee have been instructed that their study should be directed as follows:
1.	Determining the nature and extent of the discrepancies and inconsistencies which are known to exist.
2.	Suggesting the legislative action required to carry out, in a manner which honour and good conscience dictate, the intention of the government previously announced by the Prime Minister, to do what can be done to see that the commitment originally entered

Game and Fish Laws into on behalf of King George III is maintained, and
3.	Assessing and reporting on the effect of such legislation in terms of fish and game management generally and the continental supply of migratory waterfowl, particularly.


I am sure it is with dismay that those members of this house who have an interest in the welfare of Indians and Indian rights in this country have heard the announcement just made by the minister. The announcement comes, we know, on the heels of a decision by Mr. Justice T. G. Norris upholding the unanimous decision of the British Columbia judges relating to a case involving an Indian in British Columbia who shot a deer out of season.
The cause of our dismay is the announcement by the minister that yet another interdepartmental committee is to be set up. The Indian people of this country, like the Eskimos, have a right to ask this government when they can expect some action.
In the speech from the throne made to the twenty sixth parliament we were assured that an Indian claims commission would be set up, a commission which would meet with the Indian people and come to some conclusion about settling the questions raised by these old treaties which are in conflict with laws passed by this parliament. The former minister of citizenship and immigration, who is now the Minister of Justice, indicated, when he was gathering that invaluable experience of his, that the Indian claims commission legislation would be passed by parliament or, at least introduced into parliament before the end of that session. Since that time a parade of ministers of citizenship and immigration has said the same thing, that the Indian claims commission legislation is on the verge of being presented but is being delayed while approval from Indian bands is awaited.
It is not enough for the government to set up an interdepartmental committee to study this matter. What the Indian people of this country want, and what they have an absolute legal right to get, is an assurance that they can trap and fish for food at any time of the year on unoccupied crown land. Until such time as the government gets on with its Indian claims commission legislation the Indians are justified in believing that this government has betrayed them, has given them nothing but words. They have been used


to this kind of treatment from the white man for more than TOO years now.
There is one further reason why members of this house should be dismayed. I would have hoped that the government had learned its lesson by this time. Going through the list setting out who is to serve on this advisory committee, I notice that no Indian people are to be included in these discussions concerning their welfare. I do not know how often we have to beat this government over the head. We had to fight over the right of the Quebec Eskimos to be represented when matters affecting their own welfare were under discussion; we had to fight for the right of our Indian people to be represented at federal-provincial conferences on Indian welfare. The minister's announcement does nothing to reassure the house or the Indian people that this government is fit to safeguard their well-being.


Oh, oh.


I know I will get accused of making comments about poor, defenceless civil servants from a privileged position. Well, I am prepared to make them outside, because by and large the people in senior positions who deal in Indian affairs are useless clods. The government should not be referring anything of this magnitude and importance to them for study.
The hon. gentleman mentioned there was to be an examination of the treaty rights and the so-called rights which were to be preserved by a proclamation of King George III. Hon. members opposite may concern themselves with treaty rights, but instead of concerning themselves with the empty words in those treaties they should be prepared to sit down and discuss all these problems openly with the Indian people, not in the secret conclave of some interdepartmental committee. It should never be forgotten that those treaties were written by white men in the English language and explained to people who could not read or write English, and that what was contained in those treaties in no way represents the promises which were made at that time.
Thus, if members opposite want to deal with the treaties and concern themselves with the rights of the Indian people they should be prepared to sit down man to man and negotiate those treaties on a mutual basis. They should also recognize a factor which many people seem to have forgotten. It is that there are large groups in Canada who are not covered by treaties but who claim hereditary and usufructuary rights. Something should be done to recognize those rights openly and honestly, as gentlemen, and no attempt should be made to bury the problem in an interdepartmental study.
Game and Fish Laws [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, it is clear that we are all interested in any statement made in this house by a minister to the effect that attention will be paid to our Indians. But, unfortunately, much time elapses before we obtain concrete results between the words and the deeds.
Would it not be preferable to hand to the provinces the jurisdiction over Indians and Eskimos, so the federal government would no longer deal with those matters, because, according to the remarks made by the hon. member for Skeena (Mr. Howard), who is highly interested in matters relating to Indians, and also those made by the hon. member for the Northwest Territories (Mr. Rhe-aume), it seems that the federal government was not very successful with its past policy respecting Canadian Indians and Eskimos.
After examination we realize that much improvement can be made in the living conditions, and particularly in the housing conditions of those persons, and that those improvements are very slow in being effected, to the extent that those people are inclined to become discouraged.
I once met a person who lived in an Indian community; evidently he was a missionary. He was astounded at the delay of our various governments in applying policies which they had advocated with a view to meeting the requests of various Indian organizations and tribes.
We may rejoice at the decision taken by the minister, and I hope that we will benefit therefrom as soon as possible.


Mr. Speaker, it can be said that the statement we have just heard represents a further delay in the solution of the Indian and Eskimo problems in Canada.
These past few years we have been getting used to the setting up of such committees. We are no longer getting legislation, but committees, which are continually being appointed. And it is claimed through this new inter-departmental committee, the fundamental rights granted to the Indians by King George III will be reasserted.
We are proceeding swiftly toward the emancipation of Canada and, at the same time, toward the recognition of the Indians' rights.
During the last few years we have tried to reconsider the rights of the Indians. We have given them the right to take part in elections, we have taken a few steps forward. I wonder if this interdenominational committee is not a step backward.

Game and Fish Laws
As early as a year or two ago we were aware of discussions between the province of Quebec and the federal authorities with a view to handing over to this province jurisdiction, in the field of education, over Eskimos in northern Quebec territories.
I wonder whether the action announced today is not a means designed to prevent negotiations which would enable the provinces to assume their responsibilities in this field of the security and respect of the rights of Indians, since they seem ready to do so, whereas the federal government has never assumed its responsibilities in that regard?
I wonder whether this inter-departmental committee is not another means to delay even longer the logical result of the acceptance of responsibilities by governments with regard to those Canadian citizens.


I think it should be made clear for the benefit of all hon. members of the house that the hon. member for Northwest Territories has befuddled the issue by referring to something entirely different from what was mentioned in my earlier statement. In the earlier statement I referred to a special situation that now exists. I said nothing whatever about an Indian claims commission. If the hon. member had been in the house when I made that statement-


You are patently out of order.


I believe the house is entitled to this explanation. As I have said Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member had been in the house some three weeks ago he would have heard me say, in answer to a question that was put by an hon. member, that an Indian claims commission bill would be laid before the house early in the next session. I referred to the history of the bill in question.
The hon. member for Northwest Territories stated that in a speech-


Order.


I am replying.


Order; it seems the Chair will have to keep one hon. member in order. In view of the fact that there appears to have been a misinterpretation it seems to me a minister, who is new in his position, should be entitled to make a correction but not a long, argumentative statement, which I presume he is not going to make.


It is not argumentative. The hon. member for Northwest Territories stated that I was trying to confuse things and that

the government had no intention of proceeding with a promise that was made in the speech from the throne in 1963. He referred to a statement made by my predecessor, the present Minister of Justice when he was minister of citizenship and immigration, who stated that before the end of the year 1963 an Indian claims bill would be introduced into this house. Such a bill was introduced in 1963 and distributed. The views of Indian bands in all parts of Canada were then invited.


Two years ago.


It was not two years ago. These views only came in during 1964. Shortly after the house reopened in the middle of February of this year, I announced that representations had been received from the Indian bands, that a new bill had been drafted and would be laid before this house early in the next session. I think that is an entirely different set of facts from the proposition that has been put before the house by the hon. member for Northwest Territories.
In the meantime there is a very difficult situation which has arisen as the result of a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada and a more recent decision of Mr. Justice Norris of the court of appeal of British Columbia. An Indian claims inquiry will last a minimum of five years and probably 15 or more years. If we cannot do something for the rights of Indians in the field of game laws in the meantime, we would be very derelict in our duty. This is the purpose behind the establishment of this interdepartmental committee at this time.


Why did you not have an Indian on that committee?


In reply to the right hon. gentleman I would say that in almost every document filed by Indian bands it was made clear that the Indians themselves have asked that they be represented on an Indian claims commission. This legislation has not yet been laid before the house, and the government's views in that respect will be made clear when the bill is introduced. I can assure you however, Mr. Speaker, that the representations made by the Indians along these lines will certainly receive serious consideration.


I know it is not altogether proper, but may I be allowed to ask the minister this: Why is there not going to be an Indian on this interdepartmental committee? I feel there should be an Indian on

that committee. They are the ones who understand the difficulty of their position in connection with hunting.


There is nothing in this resolution to say that there will not be an Indian on the committee.


Will there be?


It is an interdepartmental committee. There are Indians in my department, many of whom have great ability. Their qualifications will be considered along with others when we are making these appointments.

On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration arising out of his statement today. Can the minister advise us if his reference to the fact that possible breaches of Indian treaties will be included in the reference to the interdepartmental committee means that additional possible breaches of Indian treaties will not be within the terms of reference of the Indian claims commission?


Mr. Speaker, not having the draft of the proposed bill before me I cannot answer that question, and I do not think I should answer it in any event until the bill is before the house. So far as the matter that was dealt with in my statement to the house earlier today is concerned, the purpose of setting up the committee is purely and simply to deal with what I consider to be an emergency situation arising out of a decision of the Supreme Court of Canada and the more recent decision of Mr. Justice Norris which I think calls for quick action. We are setting up this committee to study this particular problem as a matter of urgency.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In anticipation that legislation may be required, can the minister assure the house that before any such legislation is in its final form it will be referred to a parliamentary committee?


I will take the hon. member's suggestion under advisement, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration and it refers to the court decision to
Game and Fish Laws which he referred earlier this afternoon. In the reports of that decision it was also stated that the province of British Columbia will in all probability appeal the decision of Mr. Justice Norris to the Supreme Court of Canada. Can the minister tell us whether his department is prepared to help with the legal costs involved in fighting this appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada on behalf of the two Indian residents of my constituency who are concerned?


I will take the suggestion under advisement, Mr. Speaker.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the minister give the house categorical assurance in a straight yes or no fashion that the Indian people will be represented on the committee that is going to look into the whole question of treaty rights?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman could not have been in the house earlier this afternoon when I replied to a similar question asked by the leader of his party.


On a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker, I was in the house, and the minister said there was nothing to prevent it. I want the minister to say yes or no in that straightforward manner of his.


Mr. Speaker, I gave what I thought was a very straightforward answer. I said that we had Indians on the staff of the Indian affairs branch of the department and that their qualifications for this committee would be considered along with those of others.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In order to resolve the situation, which I am sure the minister wants to do, will he give consideration to inviting representation on this committee from the Indian and Eskimo association of Canada, which would be a source of independent expression of opinion?


Mr. Speaker, as this is an interdepartmental committee I do not see how you can invite outsiders. You can bring them in for advice but I do not see how you can make them members of the committee.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-149, respecting the flag day of Canada.
Questions

He said:

Mr. Speaker, on February 15, 1965, the Canadian people expressed their patriotism at the time of the proclamation of a national flag for Canada.
In this bill it is proposed that parliament should designate February 15 of each year as Canada flag day and the government is urged to take the necessary measures so as to mark this event with special celebrations.
On this occasion the Canadian people should be asked to celebrate this historic day with appropriate ceremonies worthy of the Canadian flag.

On February 15, 1965, Canadians of all provinces and all groups were proud to rally around the new maple leaf flag. In this bill it is proposed that on February 15 of each year this historical event be recalled to all Canadians, identifying them under a national flag as citizens of a united country, Canada.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
During the last 30 hangings performed in Canada of which there exists autoptical record, in
how many cases was death caused by (a) a fracture dislocation of the cervical vertebrae causing fatal damage to the upper spinal cord (b) strangulation where death is due to asphyxia (c) decapitation (d) heart failure or other cause?
Answer: In the last 30 hangings of which there exists autoptical record, the reports are to the following effect: 11 persons, examined and found dead; seven persons, fracture dislocation of the cervical vertebrae; four persons, il est mort par strangulation; three persons, fracture de la colonne vertebrale; one person, fractured neck; one person, fracture de la colonne cervicale; one person, fracture dislocation of spine and severance of spinal cord; one person, dislocation of the cervical vertebrae with severance of the spinal cord; one person, fracture and dislocation of the cervical spine.


To what extent, if at all, has each of the recommendations of the joint committee of the Senate and House of Commons on capital punishment dated June 27, 1956, been implemented?


The summary of recommendations of the committee, as prepared by the committee, is set out in the left hand column below and in the right hand column is set out the extent to which each such recommendation has been implemented:
(1)	Retention of capital punishment as mandatory penalty for murder (para 63).
(2)	Retention of capital punishment for treason and piracy (para 65).
(3)	No change in definition of murder (para 69).
(4)	No degree of murder (para 70 and 71).
1.	Implemented by retention of capital punishment for all murder until 1961 in which year murder was classified as capital and non-capital and capital punishment was retained for capital murder only.
2.	Implemented entirely.
3.	The definition of murder has remained unchanged although as noted above murder was reclassified as capital and non-capital in 1961.
4.	As above noted murder was reclassified as capital and non-capital in 1961.
(5)	No special provision for women (para 5. Implemented completely. 75).
[Mr. Rlnfret.l

(6)	Abolition of capital punishment for offenders under 18 and restriction for offenders under 21 (para 76).
(7)	Full disclosure of crown's case to accused (para 79).
(8)	Provision of competent counsel and assistance in producing evidence (para 80).
(9)	Mandatory plea of not guilty in capital cases (para 81).
(10)	Automatic appeal to provincial court of appeal in all capital cases (para 83).
(11)	Appeal as of right by a convicted person to Supreme Court of Canada (para 84).
(12)	Centralized places of execution in each province (para 88).
(13)	Abolition of hanging-replacement by electrocution with alternative of the gas chamber (paras 91-94).


What statistical or other scientific evidence is available bearing on the value, or otherwise, of capital punishment as a deterrent to crime?


A considerable number of studies and compilations have been made, dealing in whole or in part with this subject, including the following: Royal commission on capital punishment 1949-1953 report (particularly appendix 6) (United Kingdom) ; report of the joint committee of the Senate and House of Commons on capital punishment, June 27,	1956 (particularly
chapter III) (Canada); "The Death Penalty" by Thorsten Sellin, a report for the model penal code p