A Message from His Excellency the Governor General transmitting Supplementary Estimates (B) for the financial year ending March 31, 1966, was presented by Hon. Walter L. Gordon (Minister of Finance), read by Mr. Deputy Speaker to the House, and referred to the Committee of Supply.
Mr. L. T. Pennell (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Finance) presented the first and second reports of the Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs, and moved that the first report be concurred in.
[Note: Text of foregoing reports appears in today's Votes and Proceedings.1
['The hon. Member misunderstood me. I said 400 million bushels was our objective, which would be the second largest year in history.']
Mr. Speaker,
we object because the house is asked to sit at the same time as the committees and there are always irresponsible members who accuse others of not attending committee meetings when they are actually present in the house. As a matter of fact, the member for Saint Maurice-Lafleche (Mr. Chretien) has charged certain members with not attending certain committee meetings while they were actually in the house. We are, therefore, recording our objection.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Mr. Speaker, I remember that we always objected, while in opposition, to the sitting of the committees when the house was sitting. I objected to it then and I still object to it today. I know that nevertheless the house will pass this motion, but I intend to voice my objection
to the committees sitting while the house is in session.
We are a minority government. We need all our votes, and when we send members to the committees we cannot depend on them especially when the house itself is in committee. Therefore, I object to the sitting of the committees when the house itself is sitting.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


On division.


Motion agreed to, on division.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of reports that Prime Minister Wilson may withdraw as Chairman of the Commonwealth Peace Mission because of Chinese criticism, and since this would remove the only NATO member from the mission, is the Government giving consideration to having Canada represented by its Prime Minister whose interest in this matter has been evident from the very beginning?


Mr. Speaker, I agree with the hon. gentleman that the Prime Minister has demonstrated an interest in this matter from the beginning. However, I cannot make any other comment at this time.


As a supplementary question may I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister has been approached in the past 24 hours to be a member of this mission?


There were suggestions last week that he should be a member of the mission, and I gave my hon. friend then the reasons that prompted his discouragement of the idea at that time. But I cannot reply at the moment with any certainty
June 22, 1965

Inquiries of the Ministry in regard to the last aspect of my hon. friend's question, and I must take it as notice.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. Is he in a position today to table the text of the telegram that 72 Canadian professors sent to the Prime Minister with regard to the situation in Viet Nam, together with the text of the Prime Minister's reply?


Mr. Speaker, I think I said yesterday that I had seen the telegram. The telegram was sent to London. I had not seen the telegram but it was read to me over the phone from London, and just as quickly as I get the text I will send it to my hon. friend.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. T. C. Douglas (Burnaby-Coquillam)r
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the report issued yesterday by the Board of Grain Commissioners which shows that at the end of May our exports of wheat were down by 100 million bushels compared with the previous crop year, does the Minister anticipate that exports of wheat for this full crop year will be close to the exports for last year, or does he expect a heavy decline in total exports of Canadian wheat?
Mr. Speaker, on a number of occasions I have reported to the House my expectation that this would be the second largest year on record. I would expect, however, that this second largest year would be considerably short of 1963-64, an extraordinary crop year. In 1963-64 exports were of the order of 600 million bushels, and I expect that if we can reach our second largest year they should be something over 400 million bushels.


Does the Minister mean he expects to have nearly 200 million bushels exported in the months of June and July? May I rephrase the question. The report yesterday showed at the end of May the export of some 311 million bushels. Does

the Minister think we can reach the 500 million bushels he is now predicting by the end of July?


The hon. Member misunderstood me. I said 400 million bushels was our objective, which would be the second largest year in history.


On the orders of the day:
May I
direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. Have the preliminary investigations conducted by the R.C.M.P. indicated whether there has been a leak of the contents of the Dorion Commission report? Perhaps he could also tell the House if now, with the accelerated translation and other activities this report can be printed somewhat sooner than was indicated yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, it will be recalled that the Prime Minister indicated on Sunday at a press conference that he hoped the report could be published as quickly as possible. I mentioned this to the Chief Justice yesterday morning, and he told me everything was being done to issue it as quickly as possible but that this would not be before the end of the week. I need not remind my hon. friend of course, that control of this matter is in the hands of the Royal Commissioner, as it should be.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Forestry.
Can the minister tell us when a feed grain agency will be set up, as was requested by the Federation canadienne de l'agriculture and the Union catholique des cultivateurs?


I have already stated, Mr. Speaker, that this policy was announced in the Speech from the Throne. I announced a feed grain policy and said that in due course the government would advise the house of its policy.
June 22, 1965	COMMONS


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the Minister. Can he tell us if this matter is part of the government's emergency measures and if we can expect this agency to be set up during the next session?


The Prime Minister announced last week the legislative program for the coming weeks; it will depend on what progress is made.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Forestry?
Can the Minister tell us if it is true that several cabinet members object to the establishment of a feed grains agency for eastern Canada and whether that was the reason for his Drummondville speech?


Order.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce.
In order to avoid useless and disastrous controversy between Eastern and Western farmers, which controversy would prevent the report of the Special Committee on Feed Grains from giving rise to legislation, would the Minister tell the house if the Canadian Wheat Board has made serious objections to establishing a feed grain agency for Eastern Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the Canadian
Wheat Board is not a member of Cabinet. I have no objection to a feed grain agency for eastern Canada.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in reply to a question that was put yesterday concerning the assistance the government intends to give farmers in trouble, the Minister said he would answer today.


Responsibility for applications made to the federal government concerning assistance rests with the provincial authorities. There have been some discussions between the pro-22620-175
DEBATES	2743
Inquiries of the Ministry vincial authorities of Ontario and the Minister of Agriculture, as reported in Hansard of June 10. The government is prepared to enter discussions with any other provincial government under the same circumstances.
Besides, the hon. member has probably read the following in today's Journal: "The federal government will share the cost of rain making... ". There have been no official requests on the part of the provincial authorities of Ontario.


Could the minister tell us whether there were any consultations with the representatives of the Quebec Government?


Not recently, as far as I know.


Does the federal Government intend to take action on its own initiative with the provincial Governments in this case?


The Government cannot do that. The request must come from the provincial authorities.


May I point out to the hon. members that there have been already five or six supplementary questions? They will probably have the opportunity to raise the question once more in a few minutes. [English]


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I would like to direct to the Minister of Agriculture, but in his absence perhaps I may direct it to the Minister of Finance. Has the Government as yet reached any decision with respect to the recent request of the Ontario flue-cured tobacco growers marketing board for certain urgent financial assistance?


Mr. Speaker, I am very flattered to be called upon to answer a question which otherwise might have been directed to my hon. friend the Minister of Agriculture, and I will be very pleased to look into this matter and do my best to reply in a day or two.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I put a question to the Acting Prime Minister?
2744	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry
In a statement made in London by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Hays), he indicated that he wished to allow the export of eggs from Great Britain to Canada. Would the Acting Prime Minister give assurance to the house that there shall not be any import into Canada of eggs from Great Britain since egg producers in Canada are now faced with over-production?


I think the best thing would be for me to examine the statement first. Then I would be in a better position to give a precise answer.


A supplementary question to the Acting Prime Minister with regard to the question asked by my colleague. I think this matter of the Minister of Agriculture anticipating the import of eggs from Britain is extremely important, because of the black outlook for egg producers in Canada-


Order, please; order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, can the Acting Prime Minister tell the House whether he is yet in a position to answer the question I put to him several times this week and last week?


Mr. Speaker, I may not be able to answer it completely. There is a conference on cultural problems being held in Yugoslavia. This conference is not in any way under the auspices of the Canadian Commission on Biculturalism. If there is confusion on this point, it may be responsible in some measure for the impression my hon. friend may have had. Consideration is now being given as to whether there will be Canadian representation at that conference.
I believe my colleague the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration is looking into this matter. We hope to be able to confer later in the day and perhaps complete this answer.


Mr. Speaker, when that conference takes place perhaps the Acting Prime Minister might be able to bring an answer back to the House as to whether any part of the organization of the B and B Commission will be attending this meeting.

DEBATES	June 22, 1965


That is an aspect we are looking into.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Associate Minister of National Defence. Is it true that seizures and prosecutions are now taking place in the Beauval area of Saskatchewan with regard to materials that were taken from the Port Black radar site situated close to Beauval? After demolition of the site had taken place by the destruction crew I understand the settlers were told to help themselves by members of that crew. Is it the intention of the Government now to take proceedings against these settlers who were misinformed?


Order. May I suggest this is a question that should be placed on the order paper.


With all due
respect, Mr. Speaker, an investigation by the R.C.M.P. is now going on in that area, and I think the people should know. The question is urgent and should be answered. My last question on the order paper lay there for six weeks, and in view of the fact that action by the R.C.M.P. is now being taken in this area I think the question is urgent.
I would like an answer to my question.


Order, please. If the hon. Member would rephrase his question it might be reconsidered by the Chair.


Will the Minister see to it that all proceedings are stopped at this point until his department has had time to investigate the whole matter?


I should first have to ascertain whether this matter comes under the jurisdiction of National Defence or the Defence Production Department. I will certainly look into it, and if proceedings have been initiated I will see that they are stopped for the time being.


On the orders of the day:
should like to ask him whether the Government is now willing to give consideration to the setting up of a special committee to investigate expenditures in connection with Expo '67 in view of the answer which was tabled for me yesterday, showing that expenditures had risen from a commitment of $20 million to more than $64 million as of today.


have not had an opportunity to examine the return to which the hon. Member has referred. I am sure we are all confident that Expo '67 is going to be one of the greatest events in Canadian history. I am sure, too, that all Members will want to see that it becomes one of the greatest expositions of all time. I think the hon. Member may be able to satisfy his understandable interest and curiosity by putting questions to the Minister of Trade and Commerce when his estimates are before the Committee of the Whole, and I think he will find that the Minister will ably and responsibly deal with the questions which concern him.


I would like to say to the Acting Prime Minister-


Order.


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. I have not sent him notice, but I am in a bit of a hurry today. I trust I may phrase the question correctly in accordance with the rules.


Ask it, then.


Has the Minister of Justice obtained advice from the law officers of the Crown as to whether a bill passed by the British Columbia legislature entitled an act to incorporate the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority violates any of the provisions of the Bill of Rights?


will have to inquire. I will take the question as notice.

Inquiries of the Ministry VETERANS AFFAIRS


On the orders of the day:
My
question is for the Minister of Veterans Affairs. Has the Minister received a letter dated June 19 from the Canadian Corps Association asking that the 365 day overseas requirement applying to World War I veterans in respect of war veterans allowance be cancelled; and is the Minister in a position to say whether this is being considered?


Order paper.


Or would the Minister consider recommending-


Order paper.


Order please. Perhaps we might allow the hon. Member to complete the question.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker. The hon. Member asking the question is perfectly aware that this letter was addressed to all Members of Parliament.


The letter was addressed to the Minister of Veterans Affairs.


How did you get it, then?


I hear a lot of noise from the Opposition. Obviously they do not realize how important this matter is to World War I veterans.
Som hon. Members: Hear, hear.


Would the Minister consider recommending that the question be referred to the Veterans Affairs Committee for its consideration?


Order. This is a question for the order paper.

Mr. Jack McIntosh (Swift Current-Maple
Creek): Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. In view of the commitment which the Minister made in this House to the effect that he would introduce veterans legislation before the summer recess, may I ask him whether the two items now standing on the order paper are the extent of that commitment, or is he going to take into consideration the report submitted by the committee on Veterans Affairs handed to him in the fall of 1963, in which the 365 day clause was brought up
2746	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry and which was mentioned previously by the hon. Member for Victoria, B.C. Is the Minister going to consider this before the summer recess?


In answering a similar question a few days ago I indicated that there were two other bills to be brought forward. I am hoping they will be on the notice paper either today or tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister. It is this. In view of the widespread concern about a constitutional issue of great importance, has the Government reconsidered the question of submitting to Parliament a resolution dealing with the address to the Queen seeking an amendment to the British North America Act limiting the power of the Legislative Council of Quebec? Is the Government reconsidering bringing this measure before Parliament?


I made a comprehensive statement the other day, and I see no reason to make any modification in it.


A supplementary question. As I understand it, the other day the Minister suggested that the matter might be brought before the House on a supply motion. Suppose the Official Opposition do not choose to carry out this particular procedure, does that mean the rest of the Members of the House are not to have the opportunity of discussing this important constitutional issue?


Mr. Speaker, I think what the Prime Minister said was that there would be an opportunity given to the House to discuss this matter if it wished to do so. I suggested in my statement that we had in mind a supply motion for last Monday and Tuesday, and that it would be up to the Opposition to determine whether or not it wished to discuss this matter. Then because the Leader of the Opposition, an important officer of this House, had firm commitments previously made, an effort was made to accommodate him and that was done.
I point out to the resourceful and intelligent Member who raised this question that there

DEBATES	June 22, 1965
are procedures which are open to any Member who is ingenious enough to think of them.


supplementary question to the Acting Prime Minister. Perhaps he might cast his mind back -and I invite him to do so-to the time when he frothed with indignation that the Government should ever dictate to the Opposition the choice of a subject for a supply motion.


Mr. Speaker, I always look ahead.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether this means that the Government has decided not to submit this matter to Parliament of its own volition?


I made a statement last Tuesday when I dealt with this question-


Answer.


-and dealt with it quite thoroughly.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the President of the Privy Council. Several weeks ago the Prime Minister indicated that some time in advance of the summer recess the Government would announce the date they would like to rise. I wonder whether the President of the Privy Council as House Leader thinks this would be a suitable day to announce that Friday would be an appropriate day to adjourn for the summer?


Mr. Speaker, I am not able to make a firm commitment on that, but it is a wonderful idea.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. It stems from a press release which arrived on my desk today which states that six graduate students in political science will be taken on the staff under a program of student internship. Reading on
June 22, 1965

a little further it appears that five of the six students were selected from the Province of Quebec. My question is, why are these students not selected on a more geographical basis, especially when the Department of Northern Affairs has interests in other provinces?


Order, please. I suggest this is perhaps a grievance, but I would not think it is the type of question which should be posed at this time.


Your Honour, I think the
Minister has an answer to this question and I should like to hear it.


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister.
In view of the visit to Canada of the Queen Mother of England, could the Acting Prime Minister tell the house whether the Premier of the province of Quebec sent her an invitation so that he could welcome her in the City of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot answer immediately, but I will take this question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the consumer credit legislation now being considered by several provinces, can the Minister inform the House when the Special Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons will be convened, so the Federal Government can play its part in this important legislation?
I did give the Minister notice of this question.


Mr. Speaker, I believe this resolution is now being discussed in this House.

Inquiries of the Ministry FINANCE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. Since the Government of the United States is reported yesterday to have repealed $4.7 billion in excise taxes for the purpose of lowering prices, does the Minister or the Government have any plans to keep Canadian industry competitive by taking similar action; and would he consider repeal of the 11 per cent tax on building materials and production machinery as a suitable step in this direction?


Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether I might be permitted to congratulate my hon. friend on his perseverance.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question. Has the Government any other specific considerations under investigation so that a real attack can be made against the high cost of living which exists today?


How dictatorial does the Government want to be?


That question suggests to me that my hon. friend was perhaps thinking of going on a fishing trip with his leader.


supplementary question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the question just asked by the hon. Member, which indicated that excise taxes are being reduced by the United States Government, I should like to point out that this will affect the price of motor cars in the United States and will therefore widen the gap between Canada's price and the United States price. What does the Government intend to do in order to narrow this gap?


Mr. Speaker, I can assure my hon. friends that this matter is being given very careful consideration.


A supplementary question in view of the answer of the Minister of Finance. Is he aware of the article appearing in the Winnipeg Free Press for June 19 which pictures him along with five others in whose company he belongs, namely Hitler, Mussolini, Castro, Peron and Stalin-all of them dictators?
June 22, 1965

Inquiries of the Ministry NATIONAL CAPITAL COMMISSION


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on June 16 the hon. Member for Kootenay West asked a question of my colleague the Minister of Labour concerning the employees of the Roxborough Apartments. This matter has been transferred to me for reply.
The employees of the Roxborough Apartments property have signed employment contracts ending September 30, 1965, with a two or three month bonus. In addition they will be paid 4 per cent holiday pay on leaving.
The National Capital Commission and the Department of Public Works are investigating the possibility of employing any of the persons concerned should vacancies arise on the Commission's staff or in the Department for which they would qualify. The Commission is further trying to help them with other departments of the Federal Government, particularly by advising the National Employment Service of the availability of these persons and seeking the full co-operation of the National Employment Service. The National Capital Commission, the Department of Public Works and the Department of Labour are doing everything possible to assist the employees of the Roxborough Apartments and of La Touraine restaurant to find suitable employment.
A list showing their names, birth dates, years of service, type of employment and present salary has been prepared and circulated to the Departments and agencies mentioned.


have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the employees directly concerned be advised of Government policy in this respect?


Mr. Speaker, I presume the employees concerned are now aware that the Department of Public Works and the National Capital Commission are trying to find them employment.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Acting Prime Minister stated
[Mr. Maclnnis.l
in reply to my question that he did not have the answer but would confer with the Minister of Finance. Today I should like to direct the question to the Minister of Finance and ask him whether, in view of the 50 minute conference that was held among himself, the Acting Prime Minister and representatives of the Canadian Daily Newspaper Publishers Association, the Government is now prepared to accede to the request made by them that the Government put off further action on the newspaper legislation until a better way is found to deal with this problem.


Mr. Speaker, I would prefer, if my hon. friend will bear with me, to deal with this question when the income tax bill is before the House, and I hope that will be before the afternoon is over.


Mr. Speaker, if the Minister could give us an answer now I think it would save a great deal of time in the passage of this Bill.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege.
A few moments ago the hon. member for Lapointe (Mr. Gregoire) said the member for St. Maurice-Lafleche was irresponsible because he happened to have stated that the said member had attended only four of the 21 meetings of the consumer credit committee and only two of the 25 meetings of the committee on banking and commerce. The hon. member for Lapointe said he was absent because the committees had met while the house was sitting. Now, Mr. Speaker, those two committees only met twice while the house was sitting.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, here is an instance of irresponsibility. He is irresponsible.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. In respect of the proceedings now taking place, any question of this nature surely is out of order because it would necessitate some notice being given to the Speaker.
June 22, 1965	COMMONS


It has already been ruled out of order.


the second reading of Bill No. C-123, to provide for the disposition of Indian claims.


Mr. Speaker, I think the Minister would be happy to make a statement in this regard.


Mr. Speaker, I do not agree that I am so happy about making a statement, but I did make certain commitments to the members of the committee who considered the resolution last night, and in fulfilment of these assurances, I think some remarks are appropriate at this time.
First I wish to thank the hon. Members who participated in the debate yesterday at the resolution stage of this bill. Needless to say I was encouraged by the unanimous expression of support of the resolution which came from all quarters of this House. That augurs well for the early passage and the success of this long overdue legislation.
As I said when I introduced the legislation yesterday, two joint committees of the two Houses of Parliament, one in the period 1946-48 and the other in the period 1959-61, after hearing the evidence of Indians and others concerned, strongly recommended that action be taken to deal with this problem.
It was decided both by the former administration and by this administration that steps should be taken to implement the recommendations of those two joint committees to establish an Indian Claims Commission. As was mentioned more than once yesterday, legislation was drafted and introduced in this House in December, 1963. Following this the proposed legislation was sent to Indian organizations, band councils and other interested groups across Canada for study and for suggestions as to improvements to these provisions. This was done during the year 1964 and during the first month or two of this year. Some 300 briefs and letters concerning the proposed legislation were received. These were reviewed and, as hon. Members, who have had an opportunity to peruse this bill and compare it with the older one will see, certain major changes have been made which I think will commend themselves to all Members of this House.
DEBATES	2749
Indian Claims Commission
I should like to refer briefly to the main provisions of this new Bill C-123. First of all, the Commission will comprise five members, the chairman to be trained in the law, with experience on the bench or at the bar. There was a suggestion made that the chairman should be an international jurist selected by the United Nations. In fact the hon. Member for Skeena put forward that suggestion again last night. However, while those of us who have considered the representations feel strongly that the Chairman should be a person with adequate training and experience, we do believe there are persons in Canada who are eminently qualified to perform the duties of chairman of an Indian Claims Commission that is functioning solely in this country.
There were other suggestions made as to the qualifications of the Commissioners. Some thought that such persons should be trained in anthropology, ethnology and sociology-I remember hearing mention of a lot of other "ologies" during that discussion-and history and economics. There were many representations to the effect that an Indian should be appointed to the Commission and, as you will see from a perusal of the bill, we have accepted that suggestion. Provision has been made for one of the Commissioners to be appointed from among persons who are defined as Indians under the Indian Act. e (3:20 p.m.)
However, it is not considered desirable to specify in the legislation the discipline in which any Commissioner other than the chairman must have been trained. But we are going to have a chairman trained in the law. We are also going to have at least one Indian on this commission of five. In the new bill we have made provision for a vice chairman, who may exercise all the powers and functions of the chairman if he is absent or unable to act for any reason. I think this is also an improvement which came out of suggestions that have been made.
Each Commissioner may be appointed-not "shall be"-but may be for a term not exceeding 10 years. We do not say "shall be" because if you were going to appoint a man in his late sixties or early seventies you might not want to appoint him for such a period as would mean he would serve beyond the age of 75, which is the limit for all judges in the superior courts of this country. However, he can be appointed for a term of 10 years.
June 22. 1965

Indian Claims Commission It was suggested in some briefs that this Commission should be made permanent, and that no time limit should be put on its life. But we must keep in mind, Mr. Speaker, that the purpose of this Commission is to deal with claims which have arisen in the past, not new claims but claims that have arisen in the past. And while no Commissioner may be appointed for a term exceeding 10 years, if the Commission has not completed its work and if a member has served the full term of 10 years there is no reason why he should not be appointed for another term not exceeding two years, if he is doing a good job. This provision will permit the reappointment of one or more Commissioners when their terms expire. But I can assure this House that the Commission itself will go on until the last claim has been determined, and not until then will the Commission cease to function.
I hope this will not take 10 years, but based on the experience of our neighbouring republic to the south it may well take longer because, as I have learned in the last four months, some of the claims are very complicated. They will take months or longer in preparation, and it will take some time for the Commission to deal with the very complicated and involved claims that have come in from different parts of the country.
A word or two might be in order about the classes of claims. The classes of claims that may be brought are very broad, sufficiently broad, it seems to me, that known claims arising out of any past events can be heard. In 1948 the joint committee recommended that the Commission deal with claims under treaties. The 1961 joint committee recommended that the British Columbia land question and the Oka land dispute be heard by the Commission. Under the bill as drafted the kinds of claims that both joint committees had in mind have been included, and we have gone even further than that.
There are now five general classes of claims, which may be brought. First there are claims that land was taken without Indian aboriginal interest having been extinguished. This is the kind of claim that has been advanced by the Indians of my Province of British Columbia and which is commonly known as the B.C. land question. This was referred to at some length in the report of the 1961 committee on Indian Affairs.
The second class of claims covers claims that lands set apart as reserves for Indians were disposed of without compensation, or 
compensation so inadequate as to be unconscionable. We heard several references to that type of claim in the debate last night on the resolution. There have been many allegations that reserve lands have been improperly disposed of without compensation being paid, or that the compensation was inequitable. Suggestions were made, which I might say appealed to me at first when I was making a study of the matter, that the use of the word "unconscionable" would make it difficult to prove a claim based on the inadequacy of compensation, because as long as there was some substantial or almost reasonable compensation it might be argued that it was not unconscionable.
I might say that point troubled me at first but when I went into the history of the matter I found that similar language is used in the United States legislation, and that there have been a number of successful claims in the United States involving inadequacy of compensation as the basis of an allegation of unconscionable conduct. It is reasonable to assume that such an interpretation will be placed upon the word by the Commission or other bodies dealing with the matter in this country.
The third class covers claims that the Crown failed to discharge any obligation to Indians arising under any treaty, agreement or undertaking. Last night several hon. Members, including the hon. Member for Peace River and I think the hon. Member for Comox-Alberni, referred to this point. Provision is made in the new bill to consider allegations that the Crown has failed to live up to its obligations to Indians under any treaty, agreement or undertaking. This provision will enable bands that believe treaties have been abrogated in any way to make a claim; or if they feel that any other agreement or undertaking with them has not been fully discharged they may also bring a claim. May we have order, Mr. Speaker?


Order please.


The fourth class consists of claims that moneys held by the Crown in trust for Indians were improperly used. Some have alleged maladministration of trust funds. Where a band feels that such is the case it may bring a claim. These four classes cover claims involving aboriginal land rights, reserve lands, band funds and treaty obligations. Finally, in order to ensure as far as possible that any other matter which does not fall in the above four categories can be heard, there is a further provision for claims
June 22, 1965	COMMONS
based on the alleged failure of the Crown to act fairly and honourably with Indians in some transactions, thereby causing injury to them.
It will be seen that the classes of claims that may be brought under this bill are very broad and will permit the hearing of claims of alleged wrongs against Indians in the collective sense. The collective interest of the Indian is represented by the Indian band, and this is set out clearly in the bill. Claims of individual Indians are not included, although there have been suggestions that they should be. However, if there is any individual alive today who feels he has such a claim he can seek his remedy in the courts. The same is not true of Indians in their collective capacity with respect to claims arising out of treaties made 150 years ago, 100 years ago, 75 years ago or possibly even 25 years ago. Therefore under the bill such claims must be put forward by Indian bands. There is probably no individual Indian living today who is directly affected, so I think the question of the individual becomes academic. However, by making it possible for an Indian band as an identifiable group to seek redress, their rights as a group are recognized.
There were also suggestions that claims might be permitted against the Crown in right of a province. For constitutional and jurisdictional reasons obviously this has not been included. However, claims arising during the preconfederation period may be heard as well as all claims against Canada since Confederation.
I might say a word or two about claimants with particular reference to clause 6 of the bill.
[DOT] (3:30 p.m.)
As I have said, claims may be brought on behalf of Indian bands. Normally the band council, as the duly constituted authority to act on behalf of the band, will put forward the claim. In some cases, however, there are no councils, and accordingly the chief will be in a position to bring the claim on behalf of the band. There may be a few cases where there is no band council nor a chief, and in in such cases any adult member of the band may bring the claim, provided the Commission is satisfied he has been authorized by the band to do so. Provision is also made for bringing claims in cases where the bands, in the past, have either been amalgamated with other bands or have been divided to form two or more bands. These bands, through their
DEBATES	2751
Indian Claims Commission authorized responsible councils or their authorized spokesmen, will be able to bring claims.
I might say there were suggestions in some of the briefs and letters that were submitted, as well as in a telegram I received today, that Indian organizations should be able to bring claims on behalf of the Indians of a province. This was also mentioned last night. I may say this suggestion was given very careful consideration, and the conclusion reached was that this would pose insurmountable difficulties because Indian organizations, being purely voluntary organizations, do not necessarily represent a particular band or group of Indians. For instance, you will find in my native Province of New Brunswick, Indians of several different tribes. The same situation applies in Nova Scotia, as well as in practically every province of Canada. Where you have a band having a specific claim with regard to the disposition of some land that has been reserved for its use, you may well have another group with entirely conflicting views. This suggestion, therefore, after most careful consideration has been rejected, or at least has not been incorporated in the Bill now up for second reading.
The membership of Indian organizations, I might say, in the short time I have been Minister-and I have met several of them- fluctuates from day to day, from month to month and certainly from year to year. Conflicts of interest could arise where one or more organizations decided on their own initiative that they were the true representatives of a particular group or band of Indians. On the other hand, the band is well defined. In most cases the Indian bands had lands set apart for their use. They have a well defined membership, a membership that is established and maintained by law.
I might say that while for the reasons I have given we have not seen fit to include Indian organizations in the Bill, or make it possible for them to be claimants, this does not mean that Indian organizations might not take the initiative and advise the band or the chief to bring a claim. They could assist the band council or the chief or the adult, if the Claims Commission directed that an adult could represent a band, in the filing and prosecution of a claim. It may well be, and I think probably will be, that this will be the role that many Indian organizations may wish to play. There is nothing in the provisions of the Bill that prevents them from doing so. They can do all these things, but they cannot be claimants. On the other hand, I reiterate
June 22, 1965

Indian Claims Commission that we certainly do not feel Indian organizations, with their fluctuating membership, should be permitted to present claims to the Commission.
There is another important matter to which attention was drawn in the briefs that were submitted, Mr. Speaker. I refer to the time limit for filing claims. There has been considerable publicity given to the establishment of an Indian Claims Commission during the last few years. For several years it has been the announced policy of successive governments to establish a Commission. The purpose of the Commission, as I stated yesterday and I believe I reiterated today, is to clear grievances from the past. On the whole I believe the great majority of Indians know what their grievances are. They have talked about them enough over all my adult life. Accordingly, in order to bring some finality to this matter that has been in the air for at least 40 or 50 years, we believe that claims should be filed within a reasonable period of time. The previous Bill, No. C-130, provided that claims must be filed within two years after the act comes into force.
There were many suggestions regarding this limitation, ranging from suggestions of two years to no time limit at all. Some people were recommending a permanent Commission. Some arguments were advanced that the time limit for filing claims was too short, particularly since some bands seemed to think they not only must file their claims within the time limit but they must also prepare all the documentation necessary to support the claim. This is not the case. Only a notice of the claim need be filed, setting out what the claim is about with reasonable certainty. The documentation can follow later.
However, to meet the basic objection that the time limit of two years originally contemplated was too short, the time limit established in subclause 2 of clause 6 of the bill has now been extended to three years. It is considered this is a reasonable time within which to file a notice of claim. It may not be heard for five years, but they must give notice within three years. In the light of all the publicity that has been given to the Indian Claims bill, more particularly by the distribution of Bill No. C-130 in 1964 and the publicity we propose to give the establishment of the Commission when the bill becomes law, I would hope Members would agree that three years is a generous time.
One of the most far reaching and most novel provisions in the bill is the one having to do

with the nature of the evidence that may be considered by the Commission. An important principle embodied in the bill is the fact that the Commission will not be bound by the ordinary rules of evidence. This is most important, since the Commission in its work will be able to dispense with the rules of evidence which in the past resulted in the rejection of some evidence relating to claims. Having practised law for more than two decades before I went into business I realize that in cases such as we have here, where most of the claims arose in the last century or perhaps even earlier, if we adhered to the strict rules of evidence there would be no possibility for these claimants to get justice. Some of the evidence that may be submitted may not be accepted in ordinary courts of law, yet it may be credible and trustworthy. It was considered necessary, in view of the antiquity of some of the claims, that such evidence be allowed.
[DOT] (3:40 p.m.)
Perhaps I might pause to interject that we have all had our own experience of somebody telling us an incident. Our parents may tell us of an incident; when we pass it on to somebody else there is usually a slight variation, and when it is passed on to our children and our grandchildren there will be even more variations. So, while people may repeat in good faith claims and stories they have heard, in some instances these might be so far removed from the truth that they are almost fairy stories.
I am not suggesting that would happen here, but it is important that where oral evidence does not exist, because there is no person alive today who could give the testimony, there must be some evidence to support the claim, something contemporaneous with the origin of the claim. It was thought that it would be unwise if the claim were supported by oral evidence only. It should be corroborated in some material way by other than oral evidence, that is by something to show that the oral evidence was true or was likely to be true. This could be an artifact, a marking, or some other corroborative evidence. The question of what weight should be given to testimony is being left to the Commission to decide.
With respect to the production of papers, I hardly think it is necessary to deal with this question at any length. The Commission will be authorized to make rules respecting its procedures and will be given such powers, rights and privileges as are vested in a
June 22, 1965	COMMONS
superior court of record in respect of the difficult question of the production and inspection of documents, procedures for the bringing of claims and powers as to attendance, summoning and the examination of witnesses.
In some of the briefs, it was suggested that direction be given to the Commission as to the kind of evidence it would entertain and the weight to be attached to such evidence. There were also suggestions that there be detailed provisions with respect to the production of documents. It was considered, however, after full examination that it should be left to the Commission to determine what, in the light of practice, would be necessary to provide the claimants with full and reasonable opportunity to prepare their claims and be heard; and that the Commission should also determine what testimony it would hear and what weight it would give to such testimony.
Because of the nature of the claims, and because the problems that might be encountered in dealing with them cannot be foreseen, it is considered that it would be impractical to try to prescribe in a detailed way what the Commission shall do with respect to evidence, documents and the examination of witnesses. It is expected that the Commission will hold hearings in various parts of the country and, as required, may conduct special investigations into any particular aspects of a claim.
Another significant innovation and great improvement in this bill as compared with the former one is the provision for assistance to Indian bands in bringing claims. Provision is made in the bill for providing assistance to Indian bands that do not have sufficient available resources to enable them to bring a claim before the Commission or to pursue or oppose an appeal. There would be no point in setting up a commission if destitute bands could not get the lawyers, anthropologists and other research experts that they may need.
It so happens that there are a few Indian bands which are very wealthy, either through possessing land which made choice sites for industrial purposes or through the discovery of oil and gas. Such bands will also have claims to put forward and will be in a position to do so, but other adjoining bands in a province could not make claims unless assistance were provided them.
One of the fundamental problems that we had to consider was whether Indian bands would be able to finance the cost of having their claims adequately investigated, documented and presented before the Commission.
DEBATES	2753
Indian Claims Commission In many cases this will involve not only legal advisers and counsel but research personnel as well. The real problem is how to assist those bands that may not be able to finance in whole or in part the bringing of their claims.
Having determined that bands unable to finance their own claims should be assisted, the question arose as to how such assistance might best be made available. I may say it did not take long for the officials who were advising me or for me to decide that the administration of such assistance could not be associated with the Department of Indian Affairs, even though I may have a very high opinion of my own integrity; nor should it be associated with the Department of Justice, which will have the responsibility of defending the Crown. It was therefore considered that the most appropriate way in which the assistance might be provided would be to make it the responsibility of the Indian Claims Commission, and to assure the Commission that it would have fun