Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. My point of order is that the government order referring to the recommendations contained in the report of the Prairie Farm Assistance Administration Commission of Inquiry is a nullity and must be struck oil the order paper.
I say that the only opportunity I have to appeal against the report of the Prairie Farm Assistance Administration Commission of Inquiry is today. Inasmuch as the motion does appear on page 210 of yesterday's Hansard as a government order under the heading "Agriculture", I repeat that this is my only opportunity to appeal because under our statutes there is no appeal against the findings of a statutory commission. No case can be found where a court of appeal has adjudicated upon a report or a recommendation of a commission or whether a commission has exceeded its terms of reference.
The commission in question is not-I repeat "not"-a judicial inquiry. Any reference to it as a judicial inquiry is a misuse of the word "judicial" because there is no legal appeal from its findings. I suggest and maintain that this is an executive or crown court without an appeal. It is the modern counterpart of the ill-famed star chamber or cabal. The Commissioner exceeded his jurisdiction in many respects and ignored clause 13 of the Inquiries Act. I shall read that one clause, Mr. Speaker:
[DOT] (11:10 a.m.)
No report shall be made against any person until reasonable notice has been given to him of the charge of misconduct alleged against him and he has been allowed full opportunity to be heard in person by counsel.
This was not done in this case. This is only one of the bases for my point of order, Mr. Speaker. The Commissioner did not carry out his terms of reference as laid down by the Inquiries Act in that he carried out his inquiry totally in the Swift Current area and1 did not follow the terms of reference which related to other parts of the country.
This government order, Mr. Speaker, would refer the recommendations of the report of the Prairie Farm Assistance Administration Commission of Inquiry to the Standing Committee on Agriculture and Colonization for such recommendation as it deems advisable. The Commission, under its constituting order in council and terms of reference, was not authorized or empowered to make recommendations.
The powers and authorities granted to a commission by order in council under the Inquiries Act are of two classes, investigative and advisory. An investigative commission inquires into facts, law, or mixed law and fact, and reports its findings to the Governor in Council. An advisory commission aids and advises the Governor in Council in somewhat the same way as the Privy Council aids and advises Her Majesty's Governor General under section 11 of the British North America Act. An advisory commission must, by its nature, be almost always an investigative commission as well. It first investigates and makes findings, and thereafter advises or recommends on the basis of its inquiry.
This distinction between the function of fact finding and the function of opinion gathering is referred to by J. E. Hodgetts in his article on "The Role of Royal Commission in Canadian Government", published in the proceedings of the third annual conference, 1951, of the Institute of Public Administration of Canada, pages 351 to 367. The distinction between the delegation of the power to make a fact finding investigation and the delegation of the power to give an opinion or make a recommendation is clearly illustrated by the United Kingdom House of Commons procedure on select committees. May's fifteenth edition at page 614 states:
Reports of Select Committees Power of committees to report their opinion- By Standing Order No. 75, a select committee of the Commons which has been invested with power to send for persons, papers and records, may report its opinion and observations upon the matters referred to its consideration, even thought it is not expressly directed to do so by the order of reference.

April 13, 1965
Point of Order
The United Kingdom House of Commons Standing Order No. 75 is as follows:
Every select committee having power to send for persons, papers, and records, shall have leave to xeport their opinion and observations upon any -matters referred to their consideration, together with the minutes of the evidence taken before them, to the House, and also to make a special report of any matters which they may think fit to bring to the notice of the House.
This Standing Order clearly indicates the principle that in the absence of such a general term of reference then, unless there is a specific power to recommend contained in the special terms of reference, there is no power to recommend.
The operative words in an order in council constituting an investigative commission are "inquire into". These are words of limitation. The operative words with respect to an advisory commission are "inquire into and consider" or "inquire into and recommend". In any particular case, the words "and report upon" may or may not be added to the operative words. They are imported in any event. The Inquiries Act does not contain a general power to recommend.
In the present order in council No. 19631896, which established the P.F.A.A. Commission of Inquiry, the operative words are "inquire into and report". In the Order in Council which appointed the Commissioner the words are "inquire into". There are no words in either Order in Council to authorize or empower the Commissioner to advise or recommend.
The specific terms of reference confirm the negation of any power to recommend: they delegate the power to investigate and make findings of fact only. They authorize the Commissioner to inquire into and report upon:
fa) the circumstances leading to the dismissal of-
-etc. etc., and:
(b) irregularities alleged to have occurred in the processing of claims for benefits under the provisions of the Prairie Farm Assistance Act and the payment of such claims, relative to the crop grown in the year 1962 in the province of Saskatchewan.
So much of the Commissioner's report, tabled as Sessional Paper No. 12A, as purport to be recommendations are in excess of the powers and authorities granted him by the Governor in Council. These recommendations are in breach of Order in Council 1963-1896, tabled in the House of Commons and affixed to the report. They are null and void and of no force and effect.
There is no remedy in the courts against these recommendations so improperly made.

They cannot be appealed; the Queen's prerogative writ of certiorari cannot run against the Commission of Inquiry or the Commissioner. There was no remedy in this House either so long as the report was merely tabled as Sessional Paper 12A. When, however, these recommendations are subsequently made the subject matter of an Order of this House and now appear on the Order Paper as government order No. 78, then this House is seized of them and can and must take cognizance of their impropriety. That order, in effect, brings in as Government business for consideration by this House and a standing committee of this House, matters that are a nullity and void ab initio.
This government order should be struck out as disclosing no business for this House to proceed upon; as frivolous, vexatious and scandalous matter, and as an abuse of the privilege of this House.
If Your Honour has any doubt about the validity of my argument I should like to reserve the right to be heard further.


Mr. Speaker, I am unable to find any point of order in the argument advanced by the hon. Member. What he has in fact been doing is seeking to debate a resolution under the item "Government Orders." That item has not been called. Whether what he says about the report of the Prairie Farm Assistance Administration Commission of Inquiry is right or wrong is something to be debated when the resolution is before the House, but it is not before the House now and there is no order before the House. Indeed, there was no item before the Chair on which a point of order could be raised.
Therefore I can only ask you, Mr. Speaker, that if the hon. Member is to be permitted to continue his debate, all other hon. Members be permitted to debate the matter as well.


Mr. Speaker, on the same point of order-


Order. I think I have heard quite a lot.


I don't think you have, Mr. Speaker.


In any event the hon. Member certainly does not expect me to have grasped all the intricate legal points he has been advancing this morning, so what I will do is get a copy of the transcript and examine the matter and, if humanly possible, try to bring in a just decision this afternoon.
April 13, 1965


May I just say a few words in reply?


I don't think it is necessary at this point. The argument made by the hon. Member was very extensive.


All I wish to state is that what the Minister said is wrong.


Order. There are rules to be followed here.


Well, Mr. Speaker, I rise on another point of order. I do not want the house to be misled by what the Minister has said. If he will look at yesterday's Hansard he will see the House has made it an order.


Order, please. The hon. Member must give the Chair time to consider all the different facets involved in this matter and try to bring in a reasoned decision which I hope will be a right decision, and which I hope will satisfy in the circumstances.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the hon. House Leader. In view of the fact that we now know the budget will be coming down on the evening that the House resumes after the Easter recess, will the Minister assure the House that due time will be given between the delivery of the budget and the resumption of debate on it so that its details can receive consideration by all hon. members of the House?
[DOT] (11:20 a.m.)


Mr. Speaker, I will look at the precedents in this matter, and I will certainly take the point raised by the hon. member under consideration. I take it that what he really wants is to be sure that he has sufficient opportunity to peruse the budget before being asked to debate it; but as I say, I will take the point under consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, last week I asked the Prime Minister a question regarding the report that
Inquiries of the Ministry Canadian made cars were being sold in the United States at United States prices, which were considerably below the prices being paid by Canadian consumers. The Prime Minister promised to look into this matter, and I am wondering whether he is now ready to make a report to the House.


April 13. 1965
Inquiries of the Ministry allowed in carrying through the program that has been started.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact that the Chrysler Corporation has already announced that it will sell 80,000 of its Valiants in the United States market at competitive prices this year, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Government is making any investigation to see whether this means either that the United States is being charged less than the cost of production of the cars, or that the Canadian public is being charged a great deal more than the cost of production? I would like to ask the Prime Minister-


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we are examining that aspect of the problem carefully.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the Prime Minister advise the House whether the United States Government is collecting duty on Canadian cars entering the United States?


I will have to look into that matter, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question. In view of the extremely important economic implications of this plan because of Government statements that it may foe extended to other industries, and in view of the many unforeseen difficulties and complications which appear to be arising, would the Prime Minister consider referring this agreement to a special Select Committee of the House so that witnesses from the unions and companies and economists can appear and a full examination of the agreement can be made, so the Committee can understand its implications and in particular ascertain whether or not Canadians are being overcharged for their automobiles?


Mr. Speaker, in the first place I do not think I have ever stated that this plan may be extended to other industries. I have said that the automobile industry has certain special factors which made it possible to work out an agreement of this kind which I believe will increase production and employment, which is its main purpose and for which purpose it has been praised by unions, among others.
I have said that in the light of what happens in this particular arrangement, then naturally the Government will be glad to look into the whole application of an agreement of this

kind to other industries. That will be done in the light of the experience we have with this one. Whether it will be practical to do that I do not know. This agreement will be dealt with by the House of Commons; the House will be given an opportunity to express its views in regard to it.


On the orders of the day:
['Mr. Speaker, last Friday April 9, the Canadian government decided to hand over $20,000 to the Canadian Red Cross to meet immediate needs in Chile. At the same time the Canadian Red Cross decided to provide $5,000 of its own funds for the same purpose.']
Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Secretary of State. On Friday last the Minister stated, in reply to a question I raised regarding the commitment of the C.B.C. to spend some $10 million for a building at Expo '67 for which no approval had been given by Parliament, that the Government did not intend to go on with this project without the approval of Parliament.
In view of reports in the press, as carried in the Globe and Mail of April 9, that a tender has already been let for $3.9 million for the initial construction of the project, would the Minister confirm that the Government is now going to allow this project to go ahead without Parliament giving approval for this rather large sum of money, $10 million?


Mr. Speaker, in replying to this question and to comments made in the House on Friday last with respect to the construction of a broadcasting centre for Expo '67, I believe it would be helpful for Members to have a brief outline of the project.
Some 200 broadcasting teams from many countries around the world are expected to cover the 1967 World Exhibition being held in Canada. They will require radio and television facilities to tell the story of Canada and Expo to the world. As the host country it is Canada's responsibility to provide the basic broadcasting facilities. As the national broadcasting agency, the C.B.C. was asked to co-ordinate this project.
The Corporation's studies indicated that Canadian and international broadcasters combined would require a centre containing not less than six radio studios and two television studios, together with the associated equipment. Estimates were made of costs and the time required for building the structure and installing the equipment. Total capital costs are estimated at $9.9 million, with the initial requirement in the present fiscal year of $2.9
April 13. 1965

million. Treasury Board has approved the expenditure for this year, which is now subject to the approval of Parliament through consideration of the estimates, and this amount of $2.9 million has been included in the main estimates. Where annual financing is concerned, the House will note that this is the only procedure which can be followed in approving projects for corporations such as the C.B.C. The necessary additional amount will be included in the Corporation's estimates for the 1966 and 1967 fiscal years.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the Secretary of State whether these studios are in addition to the planned facilities of the C.B.C. at Montreal, and what use will be made of the studios after the Exhibition is finished?


They are in addition, Mr. Speaker, and it is expected that these studios will be used for some years after Expo.


Mr. Speaker, the specific question has not been answered. Has the C.B.C. committed itself for $3.9 million under this original tender that has been let without the approval of Parliament?


I understand that the usual procedure has been followed in this case, Mr. Speaker.


Oh, oh.
[DOT] (11:30 a.m.)


I have another supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. If my memory is correct I believe that a certain brigadier who was in command of Canadian troops in Japan about ten years ago was fired from his position because he spent certain money without the necessary approval of Government. Does the Minister contemplate the dismissal of the President of the C.B.C. for a similar offence?


Mr. Speaker, this project has been approved by Treasury Board and the amounts to be spent this year have been included in the main estimates.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question supplementary to those asked the Secretary of State concerning the C.B.C. expenditures. The Secretary of State said that the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation was asked to take part in this program. By whom was the C.B.C. asked to take part?
Inquiries of the Ministry


The C.B.C. was asked to take part by Expo '67.


Were there no representations made by the Cabinet or the Government in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, as I said before, the project was approved by Cabinet and by the Treasury Board.


I should like to ask one more supplementary question. How can the Secretary of State reconcile his answers to my questions regarding the extension of service, in view of the fact that he said the Cabinet would not be considering any C.B.C. expenditures until the Fowler Commission had reported? That is what I understood the Minister to intimate.


I certainly did give that undertaking, Mr. Speaker, but in respect of this case we must not forget that this Canadian National Exposition is to take place in 1967.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Secretary of State whether he thinks we should forget the tens of thousands of people in Canada who are not now served by the C.B.C.


I certainly do not agree with that, and I can assure the hon. gentleman that we will announce a program in due course following receipt of the Fowler Commission Report.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the Secretary of State. Can he tell us whether this television centre will come under the jurisdiction of Expo '67 or under the direct control of the C.B.C.?


Mr. Speaker, I think the C.B.C. and Expo '67 will co-operate very closely.


Could the Secretary of State tell us who will be in charge, rather than co-operate, with regard to this television centre?


Mr. Speaker, I shall take this question as notice.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister.

April 13, 1965
Inquiries of the Ministry
In view of the articles written by Mr. Raymond Grenier, in the newspaper La Presse, about the tragic fate reserved for several French Canadians by the 1967 World Exhibition Corporation, does the Prime Minister intend to inquire into that very serious problem?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to examine the article in question before deciding what action, if any, is required by the Government, and I shall be glad to do so.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
Does he intend to formally recognize Quebec's right to sign international agreements in the field of education, as advocated by the Quebec minister of education? Does he plan to facilitate the Quebec minister of education's task in this area?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know whether the Quebec minister of education made a statement recently.
I answered that question, in principle, some ten days ago, but I am not aware of the statements the minister of education may have made recently.
However, I shall examine the question and answer it without fail.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. The minister mentioned in his statement yesterday that Quebec had the right to enter into international agreements in the field of education.
Does the Secretary of State for External Affairs intend to acknowledge officially this right to the province of Quebec?
I do not believe this is the question put to him ten days ago.


I have just received Le Devoir of this morning, and I had not seen this article before. I shall have to consider the matter before being in a position to state my opinion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs concerning Canadian assistance to Chile. I am particularly interested in that matter since the diocese of St. John, in my riding, is twinned with that of Valparaiso, which was the district most affected by the recent earthquakes. Here is my question. Will Canada do its share to help Chile, part of whose territory was devastated by earthquakes recently?


Mr. Speaker, last Friday April 9, the Canadian government decided to hand over $20,000 to the Canadian Red Cross to meet immediate needs in Chile. At the same time the Canadian Red Cross decided to provide $5,000 of its own funds for the same purpose.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report on a speech made by the Canadian Ambassador to France, Mr. Jules Leger, in Paris on Friday last to the American Club in which the Ambassador is reported to have said that winds of change are blowing in Canada and that we are moving toward a loose federation? If that is so, does that statement represent the views of the Government in this regard, that Canada is moving toward a loose federation?


Mr. Speaker, I think the House will generally agree with me that in her Ambassador in Paris Canada has one of her most responsible heads of mission.


For heaven's sake.


Order.


I take it that everyone is in agreement with what I have said. I have seen the report and I have also
April 13. 1965

examined the actual text. The Ambassador was incorrectly reported. He referred to looser affiliations in certain sectors, but the generality of the language employed in the speech as reported is not supported by the text itself.


I have a supplementary question. Will the Minister procure a transcript or copy of the speech and table it for the enlightenment of the Members of this House, particularly in view of the recognized senior position of the Ambassador in Paris?


Mr. Speaker, I have already obtained the actual text and I will be glad to see that my hon. friend gets a copy of it today. I will also see that a copy is made available for the edification and instruction of the House in general.


have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. If I understood the Minister correctly he indicated that the Ambassador had said there was a looseness in certain sectors. Does the Minister assume that the Ambassador acted in a responsible way in making that kind of statement?


I am sure my hon. friend will agree that that is a correct statement.


My question to the Minister, Mr. Speaker, is, does he assume that the Ambassador made a responsible statement?


Order, please. The hon. member is entering into an argument.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Is the Minister aware of the presence in the gallery of Professor Mulford Sibley, and will the Minister join with us all in extending to Professor Sibley a formal welcome to the Parliament of Canada?


Order.


Order, please. I am sure that we are all happy to have all visitors come and observe the results of the good undertakings which are carried on from time to time in this Chamber.
Inquiries of the Ministry PUBLIC SERVICE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the President of the Privy Council. Is the Minister in a position to report on the meeting he held yesterday with members of the Canadian Penitentiary Service regarding reclassifications and pay increases?
[DOT] (11:40 a.m.)


Mr. Speaker, I do not know that I can give much of a report on orders of the day. The Civil Service Association of Canada, along with representatives of the penitentiaries service, had a meeting with my colleague the Minister of National Revenue and myself at which the Association made representations concerning the pay conditions of employees of the penitentiaries service. It was quite an extensive meeting and the Association is putting its representations in writing. It has undertaken to do so within two weeks, and we have undertaken to reconsider the matter of pay increases very shortly thereafter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Since announcing his 1965 dairy policy is the minister aware it is projected that there will actually be a decrease of 30 cents a hundredweight in the price of cheese milk?


No, Mr. Speaker, I am not familiar with
this.


Will the minister then assure the House that, as outlined in his dairy policy, the subsidy of 3.6 cents a pound will be paid on the production of cheese?


Mr. Speaker, I am afraid the hon. member has not studied closely the policy I announced in the House, because cheese will not be supported this year at 3.6 cents as it was last year. It will be supported on a basis whereby we will make up the difference between the factory price of between $3.10 to $3.15 and $3.30 by way of a deficiency

April 13, 1965
Inquiries of the Ministry payment and a lump sum to bring it from $3.30 to $3.50, depending on the amount that each producer produced in the 1964 period.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the minister not reconsider his new dairy policy, because it will increase the price of cheese if the farmer is going to get the same returns as he did a year ago.


No, Mr. Speaker. I do not believe this is correct, and we are not going to reconsider the matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Agriculture a question?
Can the minister inform us if he has taken into serious consideration the request for help made on behalf of the farmers of the Saguenay region in northwest Quebec whose crop was very poor last year?


This is still under consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport, who has been left alone so far this morning. What steps has the Government taken to ensure the continuance of a vessel run between Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, and Saint John, New Brunswick, by the motor vessel Mohawk II, which service is due to terminate next week, I am advised, unless some action is taken?


Mr. Speaker, the situation with respect to this vessel is being reviewed, but the review does indicate that the amount of traffic now using this vessel is so small and the subsidy per ton so high that there is some question whether the taxpayers should be asked to subsidize at that rate for that amount of traffic. However, a final decision has not yet been taken.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister designated the battleground for his war on poverty, and is he now prepared to answer the question put to him yesterday by the hon. member for Cape Breton North and Victoria?


Mr. Speaker, I believe the question was out of order then, and it would be out of order today.


On a point or order, Mr. Speaker-


Mr. Speaker, are we
establishing a precedent that the Prime Minister can get up and rule a question on the Cape Breton unemployed out of order? Is the Chair going to permit this?


The Minister of Citizenship and Immigration.


What about my point of order, Mr. Speaker?


I will tell the hon. member that these questions, of course, come to me first hand and I will have to review the record to see whether there is any substance in the allegation of the hon. member.


Further on the point of order, Mr. Speaker, it is very evident that there is substance to my point when any member of the House takes it upon himself to rise and rule a question out of order, since this is the job of the Chair. I have continued to ask questions in the House on behalf of the unemployed of Cape Breton and if this Government-


Louder.


Order, please. The hon. member raised a point of order and he is now out of order because he is attempting to bring something new into this argument, if I may put it that way. I suggest that he allow the Chair to review the remarks made and try to come to a right conclusion.


I give notice to debate this matter at ten o'clock.


I am afraid there is nothing before the House to debate at ten o'clock.
April 13, 1965


I wonder if I might be permitted to answer a question asked yesterday by the hon. Member for Cape Breton North and Victoria of the Prime Minister concerning the Louisburg fortress. 1 am informed that the Department of Northern Affairs and National Resources will proceed with the reconstruction of Chateau St. Louis by contract this year. This major undertaking will use a large portion of the funds allotted to the Louisburg project in the current year's estimates, and the smaller projects now going on will be phased into the program at a later date.
Part of the lay-off arose from the completion of the winter works program, and the balance from deferment of smaller programs until the reconstruction of Chateau St. Louis is completed. When the contract is awarded for Chateau St. Louis it is anticipated that a far larger work force will be required by the contractor.


I wish to thank the Parliamentary Secretary for his reply to the question that was asked and the one which was ruled out of order this morning. I have a supplementary question which is the result of a further telegram received from the same people who sent the telegram yesterday, the executive of the Fortress of Louisburg Employees Association. This telegram contains a number of accusations and allegations. I want to be kind to the Prime Minister and think that he does not realize what is happening down there. I shall not incur your wrath, sir, by reading the whole telegram. However, for the enlightenment of the Prime Minister I shall point out that it says-


Order, please. If the hon. Member says he is not going to read the telegram I do not know why he proceeds to read it. Would he kindly ask his question so that we can get to the point, as it were?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I should be glad to do so. Apparently the superintendent of construction says that no man on the project can be trusted. These people say that they hope this den of iniquity will be straightened out. May I ask the Prime Minister, in all fairness, if he would arrange to have someone investigate this apparently rather serious situation because of the allegations and accusations?
Inquiries of the Ministry Could he dispatch someone immediately to investigate that complaint; and I do hope he does not rule this question out of order.


The matter referred to by my hon. friend is being looked into. He has tried to put again a question which was ruled out of order. May I, Mr. Speaker, remind him that if he asks a factual question in a reasonable way, naturally it is my duty to answer. He said yesterday, and I call attention to this:
Since the Prime Minister has at this late date personally become interested in poverty-
That is an objectionable preamble, and that part of the question certainly is out of order.


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, is the Prime Minister suggesting this is out of order, no matter how true it is?


I rise on a question of privilege.


If it is on the same point, I do ask the hon. Member to consider seriously whether it is helping the Chair or helping us with the progress of business before the House to raise these points, which may be important to him but which do seem to the Chair semi-serious.


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, I should think that a question relating to the restriction of cigarette advertising in Canada would not be as important as having people thrown out on the street and this Government doing nothing about it.


The hon. Member is making allegations and statements. This is a question period, as he well knows.


Mr. Speaker, I put a question to the Prime Minister this morning, and in answer he said it was out of order yesterday and it is out of order today.


Which is absolutely incorrect.


In order to base my question of privilege I should like to read the question that was put yesterday and the Prime Minister's answer.


Dispense.


I quote:


I have a question for the Prime Minister as the result of a telegram I received a few minutes ago. It says:

April 13, 1965
Inquiries of the Ministry
"Fifty eight employees to be laid off at Louis-burg project April 20. Are these men to be the first prisoners in the war on poverty or are there plans to place them in other jobs?
Executive The Fortress of Louisburg Employees Association."
Since the Prime Minister has at this late date personally become interested in poverty, would he be so kind as to investigate the contents of this telegram and report to the House?
The Prime Minister's answer was:
Mr. Speaker, I did not understand the preamble to this question, but the rest I shall be glad to look into.
This morning in the question I put to the Prime Minister I asked him if he would designate the battleground for his war on poverty, and further asked if he was prepared to answer the question of the hon. Member for Cape Breton North and Victoria. Again, Sir, the Prime Minister answered that question by saying "It was out of order yesterday; it is out of order today."
There is no indication in the records of yesterday's Hansard that this question was in any way ruled out of order either by yourself or, as the custom seems to be developing, by the Prime Minister, as he did today, misleading-


Order, please. I do think the Chair has heard enough of this most interesting point, and it does seem to me a most colossal waste of time. I must say I had already told the hon. Member I would investigate the matter and try and bring in a reasonable decision. It does seem to me a waste of time at this particular moment to continue argument on something that may interest the hon. Member but which I do not think deserves any more discussion at the moment.


I am sorry, but I will have to continue to make my point on a question of privilege, and if you will allow me to reach my point of privilege I will co-operate to the fullest. When I indicated that I was not satisfied with the Prime Minister's answer and wished to debate the matter at ten o'clock you, Sir, said there was nothing before the House. In other words the opportunity for me to debate this further at ten o'clock seemed to be denied.


The hon. Member, of course, is indulging in argument with the Chair, which breaks every standing order we have and a long line of precedents which, if the hon. Member does not know, I will tell him so. I have told the hon. Member I would investigate the matter and if in my opinion I

thought he had a question of privilege I would say so. Now, this is not the time to argue that statement, and until such time as the Chair has made up its mind on whether or not there is something before the House, the hon. Member obviously has nothing to argue at ten o'clock. I hope to come in this afternoon and clear up the matter.


Mr. Speaker-


Wait until you are recognized.


Is the hon. Member rising on a question of privilege; because we had dealt with that matter? Is this a new matter of privilege?


Sir, if you will return to your seat I will answer your question.


Oh, oh.


It is the same question-


Mr. Speaker, I would like to call your attention to the remark made by the hon. Member, that if you resume your seat he will bring up his question of privilege.


Mr. Speaker-


I am sorry. Courtesy, of course, demands that the Chair recognize the Prime Minister, but due to the noise in the Chamber I could not hear what the right hon. Prime Minister said.


Mr. Speaker, on the question of privilege, how could I answer a question by you, sir, if-


Order. I do not propose to get into an argument with the hon. Member. If he does not know it, I will tell him. The right hon. Prime Minister.


On the question of privilege, Sir, another question of privilege-


You were not recognized.


I wish that childish member for Halifax would keep quiet for a while. My simple question of privilege is this. Am I not entitled to the opportunity to debate a question at ten o'clock when I am not satisfied with the answer, as is the custom developing under the new rules of the House; and I have not been satisfied with the answer?


The answer to the question raised by the hon. Member will be given this afternoon by the Speaker, and I have already
April 13, 1965

said so on the three separate occasions. I have to determine whether or not there is a question which can be debated. I am not satisfied that there is a question at this moment, and I need to refer to the record to find out.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. May I ask the right hon. gentleman whether it is his intention to comply with the request of the Louisburg Employees Association to have an investigation on the spot carried out with reference to the many problems that apparently exist at this location?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Labour is already looking into this matter.


A supplementary question. Could the Prime Minister say when we may have a report on this?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Minister will wish to do everything he can as quickly as he can to make certain that the maximum amount of employment is created on the island.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, on Friday last the hon. member for Spadina asked a question arising out of articles that appeared in the Toronto newspapers about a Chinese named Ngar Mye Lau, also known as Jack Mar, and I promised a full statement early this week. These are the facts. Early last September the Royal Canadian Mounted Police received information and had occasion to investigate the circumstances under which this man, known as Jack Mar, obtained a Canadian passport. He had been in Canada for some nine years prior to that date. As a result of these investigations the facts were laid before the Assistant Crown Attorney for the county of York on September 9, 1964, and he authorized the prosecution of the man in question under section 58 (1) of the Criminal Code for obtaining a passport by giving false information and he instructed that the man be charged on that same day. An information was laid on September 9 and a summons was served on that day.
Inquiries of the Ministry
On the following day, September 10, Jack Mar visited the immigration office in Toronto to say that he wished to make an adjustment statement. He did not say that he had been charged with an offence, and he did not ask for assistance of any kind. The immigration officials assumed he was but one of the many Chinese who were visiting the office to indicate a desire to make adjustment statements. Consequently his name was put on the lengthy list and no priority was given to it.
On September 11, he appeared in court pursuant to the charge and the case was finally heard on October 15. He was convicted of making a false statement resulting in his obtaining a passport, and he was fined $1,000 or four months in jail. An appeal was taken to the Court of Appeal. In the meantime he had paid the fine.
I should like to make it clear to interested members and the public generally that at no time, so far as I can discover, did Jack Mar or his counsel seek any assistance or advice from immigration officials in pleading his case before the courts on the grounds of the so-called Chinese amnesty program. In any event, after his conviction the Parliamentary Secretary to my colleague the Minister of Justice, on December 16 last, in reply to question No. 2,161 which had been placed on the order paper, stated that Ngar Mye Lau "did not qualify for the amnesty because it applied only to illegalities related to illegal entry and did not apply to subsequent illegalities not related thereto".
When this man applied for the passport he had been in Canada for nine years and had had a period of approximately three years in which to adjust his status and to become a resident in good standing. There is no record that he ever attempted to do this. He did not finally express a desire to adjust his status until he had been summoned to appear in the courts. Neither the original amnesty for Chinese who entered Canada illegally prior to July 1, 1960, nor the several extensions thereof granted by successive ministers were ever intended to give immunity to persons who have persisted in breaking the law after they have entered Canada.
May I say, however, that in spite of the conviction arrangements are being made for Jack Mar to adjust his status in Canada because he did come forward at a time while the assurance, that he could do so without facing deportation, still stands.

April 13. 1965
Inquiries of the Ministry [DOT] (11:50 a.m.)


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys and ask him if the Dominion Observatory has the capability to listen to and evaluate radio emissions from outer space, which a Russian astronomer claims are transmitted by intelligent beings?


I too read the morning newspaper, and perhaps I should be cautious in this field. I want to assure my hon. friend that up to now the Observatory has not indicated to me it has such capabilities.


May I ask a supplementary question. Will the Minister consider providing the Dominion Observatory with such a capability, especially in the light of the fact that the Government apparently does not listen to intelligent beings elsewhere?


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. As reported in the newspapers this morning, he stated yesterday in Montreal that either today or tomorrow he would be conferring with the Secretary General of the United Nations with regard to the Viet Nam situation. In view of the fact that we will not be gathering together again in this House for some days, would the Minister care to make a statement concerning the Government's intention in relation to this discussion?


I hope between now and the end of next week to have an opportunity of discussing some matters having to do with problems facing the United Nations and Canada's interest therein, as well as some other questions.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. Member for

Digby-Annapolis-Kings asked if any complaints had been received from western Nova Scotia with respect to United States aircraft breaking the sound barrier, in view of the fact that we are approaching the mink whelping season. I notice that in the Hansard report the hon. Member is quoted as having said that the female mink would prefer to eat their young rather than have them die of an atomic bomb. I think the hon. Member has been misquoted. I told the hon. Member that I would look into the matter.
I am now in a position to say that three complaints were received since April 5, 1965 from the Nova Scotia and Grand Manan Island, New Brunswick, areas. In addition, yesterday I received a communication from the hon. member for Shelburne-Yarmouth-Clare including a petition signed by a number of mink ranchers of the Digby and Clare municipalities in Nova Scotia on the same subject.
The incidents referred to apparently occurred during a recent United States air force exercise which involved several supersonic flights. The area of the exercise extended from the centre of the Bay of Fundy to a location in northern Maine, and the only Canadian territory which was overflown was Grand Manan Island. The routes did not pass over Nova Scotia. That exercise has now ended.
Both the R.C.A.F. and the U.S.A.F. are well aware of the approaching mink breeding season, and I can assure the hon. member that every precaution will be taken to minimize any danger to this important industry.
In a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Lapointe asked if I had received any complaints from the Saguenay-Lake St. John area regarding R.C.A.F. Voodoo aircraft stationed at Bagotville breaking the sound barrier. I can inform him that one complaint was received on April 8, 1965 from the village of St. Prime on the west shore of Lake St. John approximately 65 miles west of Bagotville. It is not known when the sonic boom occurred, but an investigation is now under way.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. Can the Minister say whether plans are under way to phase out some or all of the eastern section of the mid-Canada radar line?
April 13, 1965


Mr. Speaker, the balance of the mid-Canada radar line ceased operations on March 31.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, since this is probably the last day of this part of the session may I direct a question to the Associate Minister of National Defence and ask whether he is yet in a position to advise how many employees are going to be retained at the Point Edward naval base, or continued, as they are anxious to have this information.


Mr. Speaker, I expect to be able to make a statement on that particular question in two or three days. From the information I have the prospects are for more employment at Point Edward naval base rather than less.


A supplementary question. Does the Minister suggest that the naval base is going to expand, in view of this extra employment which is going to take place?


I am not suggesting that, Mr. Speaker, but I know the hon. Member is aware that the Canadian motor industry is planning to take over some of the buildings which will be made available by the armed forces.


On the orders of the day:
have a question I want to ask the Secretary of State. Two weeks ago the Minister undertook to check with the C.B.C. to ascertain whether it considered its promotion of cigarette consumption through television advertising was proper in view of the activity of the department of health in attempting to reduce sales of cigarettes. I wonder if he has any report from the C.B.C. at this time.


No, I have not received anything as yet.
Inquiries of the Ministry [DOT] (12 noon)


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport andl ask him whether he has received a telegram from Leonard J. McLaughlin, president of the Seafarers' International Union of Canada, in which he points out that although the navigation season is only a few days old there have already been some five accidents involving one total loss and as I understand it, asking the Minister to have an investigation conducted to determine whether ships travelling the waterways of Canada, the harbours and the approaches thereto, are adequately and competently manned. I know the Minister indicated yesterday that there was to be an inquiry into one particular accident on the St. Lawrence. I am asking whether this inquiry is going to be broadened to cover the question of whether adequate, competent crews are required by the Government, under the Canada Shipping Act, on all Canadian ships travelling on Canadian waterways?


Mr. Speaker, I did receive this telegram last night, and I had such inquiries made as I could have made immediately in my Department. Because this is really quite an important subject I think perhaps I might be permitted to give a slightly more extended reply than is usual.
I may say in the first place that we intend to ask Mr. McLaughlin to give any substantiating evidence he is able to give for the generalization he has made, and that in fact the Department does carry out an investigation into every accident of this character; I refer particularly to the one in Lake St. Peter the other day.
It is true that this is the worst year for a number of years so far as ice conditions are concerned in the St. Lawrence, in the lakes and in the canals, and it is perhaps possible that on that account, because of the greater hazards, there may have been a somewhat higher accident rate than has been usual. But we are making a very careful investigation to see whether there is anything special about it, whether it is due to the ice hazards or whether there is any foundation for the allegation made by Mr. McLaughlin. I could not, of course, hope to give an answer to

April 13, 1965
Inquiries of the Ministry them without the investigation being completed.


As a supplementary question, I notice that in the same wire Mr. McLaughlin suggests that the provisions under the Canada Shipping Act are of such a general nature as to be virtually unenforceable. Would the Minister undertake to look into this aspect of the matter and see whether some amendments to the Canada Shipping Act would be necessary in that regard?


Mr. Speaker, I would be very glad if Mr. McLaughlin or anyone else is able to furnish particulars in this regard, and I would be happy to look into them. We did, of course, have a very extensive revision of the Canada Shipping Act at the last session of Parliament, and we tried to put into that revision all the provisions that up to that time, it seemed to the Department, and to anyone who made representations to us, to be desirable. However, that does not mean it is perfect, and if there is any improvement that can be made, and if the House will give time for it, we will do our best.


Would the Minister not agree there wo