Mr. Speaker, I wish to table copies of the usual budgetary papers in English and in French, and with the consent of the house I should like to have them appended to today's Votes and Proceedings and also to Hansard of March 29.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-155, to amend the Criminal Code (cruelty to animals).


Explain.
[DOT] (11:10 a.m.)


Mr. Speaker, the purpose of this bill is to make a minor amendment to the Criminal Code. The aim is to enable a magistrate who has imposed a sentence upon a person convicted of an offence of cruelty to animals to also prohibit such person from owning, harbouring or otherwise possessing an animal or a bird for a stated period of time as part of the sentence. This is in line with the wishes of the humane society of Ontario.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-156, to amend the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act (Powers of Chairman and of the Board.)


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, once again, this bill is inspired by the present dispute between the C.N.T.U. and the C.B.C. with regard to a decision of the Canada labour relations board.
The purpose of the bill is to amend the industrial disputes legislation so that only the chairman of the labour relations board may be allowed to make a decision whenever there is a conflict between unions about union recognition for one group of employees.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
[English1


Mr. Speaker, I ask leave, seconded by the hon. member for Hamilton South (Mr. Howe), to move the adjournment of the house under standing order 26 for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely the need to take steps to end the nine week old strike in the trucking industry in the province of Ontario, most of whose employees fall within federal jurisdiction, and the failure of the Minister of Labour to implement the Canada Labour (Standards) Code by ordering a rapid transition to the 40-hour week provided in the said act, which would remove a major obstacle to the settlement of the strike.
Mr. Speaker, I respectfully submit that the urgency of the matter is self evident-


Order, please. Will the hon. member kindly address the Chair on the question of urgency of debate.


Mr. Speaker, this strike has now gone on for nine weeks, with a great loss of earnings to the trucking firms, a great loss of earnings to the drivers and other workers in those trucking firms, and at tremendous inconvenience to the shipping public. Over 70 per cent of the employees involved in the strike are engaged in interprovincial and international transportation and therefore fall within federal jurisdiction.

March 25, 1966
Labour Relations
One of the major issues, if not the major issue, between the unions and the trucking firms is that of the 40-hour week which presumably is guaranteed under the Canada Labour (Standards) Code. The failure of the minister to do anything under that act is, in my submission, directly responsible for prolonging the strike, and the prolongation of that strike is of great and urgent concern to the entire industrial complex, not only in the province of Ontario but throughout Canada.
Since it is within the power of a federal minister of the crown to make a major contribution to the settlement of that strike, I respectfully submit that the business of this house ought to be adjourned for the purpose of fully debating this matter.


Mr. Speaker, may I address myself for a moment to the point of urgency, which really has not been dealt with by the hon. member who has attempted to make this motion.
The question before the house is whether the proceedings ought to be interrupted at this point to deal with the matter raised by the hon. gentleman. While it is a very important matter, a matter which has engaged the attention of the Minister of Labour and other members of the house from Hamilton and other parts of Ontario, it is still a fact that we intend to move into supply when the orders of the day are called. The hon. gentleman will then have ample opportunity to raise this point.
On that ground, therefore, it cannot be argued that the ordinary proceedings ought to be interrupted in order to deal with this matter, because it can be dealt with the moment the orders of the day are called.


As the hon. member for York South well knows, urgency within the rules does not apply to the matter itself, but to the urgency of debate. I refer him to citation 100 (3) of Beauchesne's fourth edition. As has been pointed out correctly by the Minister of National Health and Welfare, there will be an opportunity later today to discuss this matter which the hon. member has raised. In the circumstances I cannot accept this motion.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to address a question to the Prime Minister. In

view of the co-operative effort and the excellent progress we have made with legislation, and in view of the fact that with one or two exceptions there are only minor pieces of legislation on the order paper, can the Prime Minister tell us when he expects to put on the order paper the major legislation that was dealt with in the Speech from the Throne?


Mr. Speaker, there are matters on the order paper which could hardly be described as minor. We are at present debating a very important matter. After that we will have the budget debate. I can assure my hon. friend that there will be other important matters on the order paper in due course before we reach the end of the budget debate.


On the orders of the day:
would like to ask the Prime Minister if he had a meeting on March 23 with three of the national staff associations of the civil service with regard to bilingualism. If so, why was the Canadian Union of Postal Workers not invited to sit in at this meeting, in view of their great interest in this question?


Mr. Speaker, I have received a letter from the postal workers bringing this matter to my attention. I am looking into it at once, because certainly we do not wish to discriminate against representations from any group of civil servants. It is my impression, but I should like to check just as soon as I get to my office, that it was not a question of invitation but that these three other agencies asked to be heard by the government. I want to emphasize that we do not want to discriminate against representations by the postal workers on this matter.
[Translation1


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the right hon. Prime Minister, since the Minister of Finance is absent.
March 25, 1966

An agreement was signed the day before yesterday at Colombo whereby Canada will lend the government of Ceylon, $1,717,000 without interest.
Can the right hon. Prime Minister tell us if this loan will be made through the Bank of Canada?
[English1


Mr. Speaker, I shall have to look into this matter. Under the Colombo plan we do give help to these countries, and certainly without interest; but I should like to find out the details of this particular matter.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a supplementary question to the right hon. Prime Minister.
Would he consider the advisability of granting similar loans to the provinces and municipalities in Canada?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether he has checked to see how much the price of butter has risen to consumers in Canada and whether it is in line with the increase in price to the wholesalers.


Mr. Speaker, having in mind both this question and the question the hon. member asked the other day, I have checked into this question and I find there is no practical way in which wholesalers can take advantage of the increase inasmuch as retailers can, and often do, buy directly from the stabilization board at the new price of 59 cents. Therefore any wholesaler who attempted to take advantage of this position would be caught (a) by the competition and (b) by the fact that the retailers themselves can buy in carload lots directly at the 59 cents price.


Has the minister checked to see whether the retail price has gone up more than the wholesale price, whether it is the wholesalers or the retailers who buy directly?


Mr. Speaker, to the best of my information to date the retail price has not gone up more than this, subject to the differential factor which I spoke to my hon. friend
Inquiries of the Ministry about in respect to western Canada, which is now being obviated.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is based on a wire just passed to me from the National Defence Employees' Association at Point Edward naval base, and my question is directed to the Associate Minister of National Defence. I am not going to read the whole wire but just a small portion to explain the situation to the minister. It says:
-recently Hon. Allan MaeEachen assured N.D.E.A. that any positions in the area first preference would be given to classified civil service employees already engaged at Point Edward naval base. Urge immediate reply-


Order, please. Questions cannot be prefaced by the reading of telegrams, newspaper articles, or letters.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the minister whether he will investigate this situation and ascertain why these employees are not being given the opportunity that was promised to them by the hon. member for Inverness-Richmond?


Certainly, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration.
In view of the fact that the minister had promised to me in this house that he would come with me to picket the headquarters of companies having no French Canadians on their board of directors, and in view of the fact that we have just received the annual report of the Polymer corporation, which has no French Canadian director, can the minister inform me whether next Monday would be agreeable to him for picketing the headquarters of that corporation?


Order. The hon. member for Regina City.
3166	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I feel my question is in order and urgent, for it is raised at a time when we have just received a report, and I would like to take this opportunity to ask the minister whether he would be ready to come and picket- lEnglisK]


Order. I suggest to the hon. member that it is not within the administrative responsibility of a minister to picket the office of the president of a corporation.


That is what he promised, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker,
I have a question for the Minister of Transport. I believe he met on Wednesday with the mayors of the cities concerned with the curtailment of passenger service by the C.P.R. Could he indicate to the house the results of this meeting?


Mr. Speaker, I thought the results of the meeting were very adequately described by the mayor of Moose Jaw, who was spokesman for this delegation, on radio and television last night.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. I should like to know if the Minister of Transport suggests that members of parliament can obtain more information about the affairs of the country by watching television and listening to the radio than by asking responsible ministers.


Sometimes, sir, I think that would be true. However, I do not want in any way to suggest that the hon. gentleman's question was not proper. I think it was. I myself did hear an account of the meeting we had, and I wanted to indicate that I thought the mayor of Moose Jaw had very accurately reflected both the atmosphere and the results of that meeting. An excellent presentation was made, with much of which I had a good deal of sympathy, and I undertook to study it.


Order, please. Is the minister addressing the house on a question of privilege?
CMr. Speaker.]
DEBATES	March 25. 1966


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the statement made by Hon. Ralph Loffmark, Minister of Industrial Development, Trade and Commerce for British Columbia, in which he advocates economic and customs union between Canadian provinces and some states in the United States, and in which he calls for a quick and complete union between British Columbia and the states of Washington, Oregon and California? Has the government given any consideration to this most unusual proposal?


Order, please. I do not think that question is in order.


Oni the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice. In his absence, I wonder if the acting minister or the Solicitor General might have some advice to give to the house on the many useful recommendations contained in the report on juvenile delinquency tabled one month ago in this house. Does the government have any intended action on this report?


Mr. Speaker, this report is under study by the office of the Solicitor General and by the Department of Justice. However, it has been temporarily delayed because the Solicitor General has taken on special duties relating to another matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. I would ask the minister if the Dr. Donald report has been completed and, if not, when this document is expected.
March 25. 1966	COMMONS


It has not yet been completed, Mr. Speaker. An extension has been given to Dr. Donald. However, I can say that the report will be in by the end of next month.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does the minister not realize that on January 28 he saidj this report would be ready soon?


Order, please.
DEBATES	3167
Inquiries of the Ministry INDUSTRY


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Industry. In the absence of the minister perhaps I should direct it to the government house leader, the Minister of Public Works. Can he inform the house when there will be an opportunity in this house to discuss the automobile treaty between Canada and the United States?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General and relates to a certain report pertaining to the prison break of February 9 at Collins Bay penitentiary. Does the Solicitor General now have this report, and will he table it?


Mr. Speaker, the report referred to by the hon. member is a report directed to the commissioner of penitentiaries, not to the minister. It would ordinarily be considered a confidential document. However, I appreciate the special interest that the hon. member has in this matter, and I am prepared to make the document public. In doing so I would respectfully ask the house that it not be considered a precedent.
ST. VINCENT DE PAUI^SUICIDE OF PRISONER
On the orders of the day:


My question is addressed to the Solicitor General. Will the Solicitor General say whether he intends to conduct an investigation into the suicide of Conrad Brunelle which took place yesterday at St. Vincent de Paul, especially as this prisoner tried to commit suicide three months ago?


Order. I doubt whether this question should be asked on the orders of the day and I would invite the hon. member to place it on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, if I had my way it would be almost at once. However, it is a matter of what time the house takes on the very important measures before it at the moment. We expect to have the discussion very shortly.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege-


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister not indicate to the house whether this matter will come up before the Easter break?


Mr. Speaker, I think it is a little difficult to answer that question now. The government house leader is trying to get all the legislation on the order paper as quickly as possible. On two or three occasions I have included this item on the list of business for the house to consider. On those occasions the house made very good progress with legislation, and I think all hon. members would have to agree that we made good progress, but did not reach this item. I cannot forecast how long the house wishes to take on any given measure brought before it. All I can do is indicate that we are anxious to get it through as quickly as possible.


I rise on a question of privilege. The leader of the house is suggesting that if he had had his way, this resolution would have been discussed already. But he has always placed this resolution concerning the Canada-United States auto pact at the tail end of the business to be discussed. We have made excellent progress with some 14 pieces of legislation since the beginning of last week-surely the leader of the house must recognize this-and had he wished to deal with this resolution he should have brought it forward ahead of some of the other business he suggested.

March 25, 1966
Inquiries of the Ministry


I believe the rules provide that the government has to establish its own priorities, bearing in mind its responsibility for bringing forward legislation. We have brought this resolution forward for consideration on two or three occasions and on those occasions, as I tried to indicate, we have received good co-operation from other members of the house in getting legislation through, but we have not reached this item of business. I suppose one could accuse the government house leader of being somewhat impatient at times, but all I can say is we are anxious to get it through as quickly as we can.


That is a lot of nonsense, if I ever heard it. It is sort of two-faced, too.


No, sir.


On the orders of the day:
If the
government and opposition house leaders have finished their discussion I should like to address a question to the Minister of Transport, now that he has had time to catch his breath since his recent visit to British Columbia. I should like to ask him whether while in British Columbia he had the opportunity of holding any discussions with members of the British Columbia government concerning shipbuilding subsidies. I should also like to ask the minister quickly, if I may, before the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands (Mr. Cameron) who has a rather other worldly outlook on this question, whether he had any opportunity of looking into the provision of some form of causeway transportation to Vancouver island.


Order. I suggest this question should be placed on the order paper, unless there is an urgency about it which the Chair fails to see.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister which I shall try to make somewhat narrower than the earlier question I addressed to the Minister of Transport. I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he would look into the matter of tabling a letter from the premier of British Columbia on the question of shipbuilding subsidies, which on March 1 he told

me he would be glad to do. Also would the Prime Minister inquire into the delay in tabling the correspondence which was ordered under notice of motion for production of papers on this same subject on February 2?


Mr. Speaker, I was under the impression that the correspondence had been tabled. There may have been one telegram which has come in which was not tabled. In any event, I will be glad to look into it and make the information available.


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, who I believe has responsibility for all manpower problems. In view of the critical shortage of teachers and the increasing pressure placed on teacher resources by the rapidly expanding technical and vocational training program, would the minister consider subsidizing teacher training programs under the government sponsored retraining scheme?


Order. I suggest to the hon. member that this is a question of a very general nature, and not the type of question that should be asked at this time.


With deference, on a question of privilege, this is a matter of great urgency, as anybody who reads the papers these days must know. I believe the minister himself will be interested in this problem, because it was due to an oversight that teacher training was not included in the retraining program.


I still fail to see the immediate urgency of the matter. It may be very important and urgent, but it seems to me that nothing would be lost by having the question placed on the order paper or, if the hon. member prefers, by discussing it at ten o'clock.


I will discuss it at ten o'clock at the first opportunity.
March 25. 1966	COMMONS


On the orders of the day:
I wish to address a question to the Minister of Transport and ask him whether he has anything to tell the house about negotiations reportedly being carried on between Air Canada and its opposite number in Russia in connection with a direct air service between Montreal and, I believe, Moscow.


Some time ago the government authorized Air Canada to enter into discussions with the air line in the Soviet Union, Aeroflot, with a view to seeing whether conditions would be favourable for intergovernmental discussions preparatory to establishing a bilateral agreement. I heard the report on the news this morning, as no doubt the hon. gentleman did, that both parties seem to think quite good progress is being made in these talks. I hope it is.


Is it contemplated that the Russian air line would have any subsidiary benefits? Would it have just one terminal, or would it have the right to carry passengers from, say, Montreal to Toronto?


I do not think one would normally reply to a question of this kind while negotiations were in progress, but I should like to allay any fears that there is any thought of fifth freedom rights.


Am I right in understanding that it is the particular air lines which are negotiating this agreement rather than the governments?


The actual negotiations
would, of course, be between governments, but it would perhaps be somewhat futile to negotiate a bilateral agreement and then find that the air lines were not interested in flying. This is purely an exploratory operation.


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister of Transport. Can the minister inform the house whether the Atlantic Development Board has approved a grant for power development in the province of Nova Scotia?
DEBATES	3169
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order paper.


Yes, sir.


A supplementary question to the Minister of Transport. Would he be as quick with a reply if he were asked to give comparative figures showing how much the Atlantic Development Board had done for Newfoundland as compared with Nova Scotia?


Just as quick.


Then I would ask the minister to give us the figures.


The figure is $12 million for Nova Scotia for the thermal plant.


And for
Newfoundland?


On the orders of the day:
too, have a question for the Minister of Transport. It is based on a number of telegrams I received this morning from the Vancouver area. Can the minister say whether lay-offs are taking place in Vancouver air traffic control centre despite a reported shortage of such staff in other areas, posing a possibly hazardous situation?


I cannot do so without checking, but I should like to be permitted to say just this word, since the hon. gentleman referred to a possibly hazardous situation. I do not think anyone in the house would like the impression to be left that either the Department of Transport or our air lines would wilfully do anything which would create any hazardous situation.


Would the minister undertake to look into this situation?


I will look into it just as soon as the orders of the day are reached.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Trade and Commerce but in his

March 25, 1966
Inquiries of the Ministry absence I shall direct it to the Prime Minister.
Following agreements entered into with Pakistan in January 1966, on the financing of an atomic power plant for peaceful purposes, can the Prime Minister tell us whether this nuclear power plant will benefit Canada with respect to the sale of Canadian uranium?


This question should be put on the order paper.
[English1


On the orders of the day:
In the absence of the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources, who usually makes announcements about these matters in British Columbia, I wonder if I can ask the Minister of Agriculture whether he has yet reached a favourable decision about the grain elevator in Prince Rupert.


Mr. Speaker, I think I will leave the answer to that question and the venue to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Could the minister indicate when he will be in a position to announce the policy of the government with regard to the support price for the Canadian sugar beet crop during the year 1966-67?


Mr. Speaker, the policy is under consideration and will be announced in due course in a short statement.
[Translation1
INVITATION TO MINISTER TO VISIT QUEBEC On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a question to the Minister of Agriculture.

In view of the minister's successful trip in western Canada and the hearty reception Quebec gave the recently announced dairy policy, does the minister propose to visit very soon those areas of rural Quebec where he will be most welcome?


Soon, Mr. Speaker.
[English1


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Secretary of State. Would the Secretary of State kindly consult with the members of the Board of Broadcast Governors and request that there be more Sunday programs with a religious content?


Order. This question should be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Postmaster General when he expects the report from His Honour Judge Montpetit who is investigating the grievance of the postal workers.


Mr. Speaker, it is hoped that the report will be presented by the end of June.


Would that be the final report or an interim report?


I do not think there will be an interim report.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Solicitor General, and it is urgent. In view of the policy statement to the effect that 20 women are to be removed from Kingston penitentiary to the new institution at Matsqui, and in view of the fact that 19 of the 20 said they did not wish to be removed, is consideration to be given to the request of those who have stated their desire to remain in Kingston and not be removed to Matsqui?
March 25. 1966


Mr. Speaker, I have had a preliminary discussion with the commissioner of penitentiaries. He is now in western Canada, and as soon as he returns I believe I will be in a position to report on the matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. Is the minister in a position to advise the house whether the government has as yet made a decision one way or the other in respect of the re-establishment of the roads to resources program?


No, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Revenue. Is the minister in a position to indicate when a decision will be rendered in respect of the reclassification and salary revision of the Canadian penitentiary service?


Mr. Speaker, the report has been received and is being studied by the civil service association as well as the civil service commission, and the treasury board. There will be consultation after this, and I can promise when it comes to the treasury board after the consultations there will be no delay.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I should like to ask the Minister of Public Works. Having in mind the money which Canadians spend to beautify Ottawa, our national capital, and also considering the perpetually dirty and
Inquiries of the Ministry deplorable conditions of Ottawa streets, would the minister consider asking the National Capital Commission to take over and keep clean at least some of what appear to be the main Ottawa streets?


Order, please. This question might be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Transport whether the government has yet made a decision in respect of which air line will be given the route between Toronto and Los Angeles, and which air line will be given the route between Vancouver and San Francisco?


Mr. Speaker, the government is in the process of making these decisions at the moment.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys. May I ask the minister if he can advise us whether one or two members of the Dominion Coal Board have left or are comtemplating leaving their positions? I would hope this is not so.


Order, please. I do not see how this question can be so urgent that it is the type of question which may be asked at this time.


Mr. Speaker, the only reason I ask this, and the reason I consider it of great importance, is the fact that this board is of importance to the coal mining industry. We have a new coal board chairman, and I would hope we are not losing any members of the staff. I am sure the minister understands the situation.


Order, please.

March 25, 196&
Interim Supply SUPPLY
The house in Committee of Supply, Mr. Batten in the chair.


Resolved, That a sum not exceeding $870,275,281.00, being the aggregate of-
(a)	two twelfths of the total of all of the items set forth in the main estimates for the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1967, laid before the House of Commons at the present session of parliament, $817,997,151.83;
(b)	an	additional	nine	twelfths	of	the	totalamount of Transport	item 103 (schedule	A) of the
said main estimates, $408,000.00;
(c)	an	additional	four	twelfths	of	the	total
amounts of Agriculture item 35 and Atomic Energy item 5 (schedule B) of the said main estimates, $3,382,966.67;
(d)	an	additional	three	twelfths	of	the	total
amounts of Finance item 15, National Research Council item 10 and Transport items 95 and 104 (schedule C) of the said main estimates, $19,582,100.00;
(e)	an additional two twelfths of the total amount of Legislation item 20 (schedule D) of the said main estimates, $959,816.67;
(f)	an additional one twelfth of the total amounts of External Affairs item 5, Justice item 1, Mines and Technical Surveys items 20, 25, 35, 55, 60, 70 and 85, National Health and Welfare item 41, National Revenue item 5, Northern Affairs and National Resources item 1, Secretary of State item 40, Solicitor General item 5, Transport item 85 and Veterans Affairs item 25 (schedule E) of the said main estimates, $27,945,245.83,
be granted to Her Majesty on account of the fiscal year ending 31st March, 1967.
[DOT] (11-50 a.m.)


Mr. Chairman, I rise on a point of order. I have the honour of being asked to fulfil a long standing engagement to address the John Howard Society of Saskatchewan tomorrow noon. I understand it has been traditional for the minister responsible for penitentiaries to honour such a commitment. Ministers of previous administrations have had this honour. There is also another very important event taking place in Prince Albert on the same day and I would be pleased to be able to attend it also. I would therefore ask the indulgence of this house to permit me to fulfil this engagement. There is a reference to a supplementary item of my department in the supplementary estimates, but it will be necessary for me to leave today to be in Saskatchewan in time for this appointment.


Agreed.


Mr. Chairman, the resolution before us regarding interim supply will be

followed by a bill to provide for all requirements of the public service up to May 31, 1966. We are asking for two months interim supply. I should like to give the usual assurance to the house that in no instance is the total amount of an item being released by this resolution or the ensuing bill, and that the forms of the resolution and the bill to follow are the usual ones for interim supply.
The passing of this resolution and the ensuing bill will not prejudice the rights and privileges of members to criticize the items of the estimates when they come up for consideration in committee of supply. I give the usual undertaking that such rights and privileges will be respected and will not be curtailed or restricted in any way as a result of the passage of this measure.


Mr. Chairman, I am not launching into a full speech, so any applause I might receive will quickly subside. At this moment what I am doing is recording an objection so there will be no misunderstanding in the future. I do not consider it normal practice, usage or custom of this house to grant interim supply for a two month period at this time of the year. The normal practice has been to grant one month of interim supply at a time until the main estimates are passed, except in circumstances where a summer adjournment occurs or where advance notice of an election is given. Under those circumstances perhaps three or four months interim supply is granted.
Therefore I record my objection to this request for two months supply, and I hope this will not be considered as a precedent for the future.


Mr. Chairman, I rise to address myself to the question I posed earlier today, regarding a situation which I earnestly request the Minister of Labour to look at with more realism than he has done up to now. I refer to the strike in the trucking industry in the province of Ontario which, as was indicated earlier, has been going on now for some nine weeks with disastrous results to some 8,000 families, because there are 8,500 truckers involved. I imagine this has also had serious results for the 55 trucking firms involved, as well as for many hundreds of shippers throughout the province.
I appreciate that negotiations have been taking place for a long time, and that there was a conciliation procedure which was followed through the co-operation of both the federal and provincial governments. There
March 25, 1968

was a conciliation board report which the unions were not willing to accept.
I want to draw your attention first, Mr. Chairman, to the fact that I am not raising this matter on the floor of the federal House of Commons lightly. I know a little about the organization of this industry, having been involved in court in one or two cases on problems of jurisdiction as between federal and provincial authorities. I am certain in my own mind that the strike involves the federal authority very much more than it involves the provincial one because, in my opinion, at least 70 per cent of the employees concerned are engaged in interprovincial and international transportation and are therefore covered by the federal law.
Last Saturday night I was in Hamilton, and that is the reason I am raising this issue with some urgency today. I addressed a meeting concerned with raising some funds to augment the benefits paid to striking workers who are members of local 879 of the teamsters' union which has its headquarters in that city. I learned from some of the workers that they are reaching the point now where their personal lives and the lives of their families are pretty seriously affected by the continuation of the strike.
I also learned from the president of the local union, Mr. Ray Taggart, who is also chairman of the negotiating committee involving all the unions concerned, that there are now three remaining issues of any importance in dispute between the unions and the trucking firms. The first is the question of a 40 hour week; the second is the question of the owner-operators, and the third is the question of certain retaliatory steps taken by some firms against local unions for earlier alleged wildcat strikes.
From my knowledge of the situation I would urge the Minister of Labour not to worry about what are called reprisals; that is, the actions by trucking firms, grievances and damages against local unions, particularly the local in Hamilton; because I am confident that cannot and will not be an obstacle to a settlement if the 40 hour week problem is settled. That is why I speak with very considerable indignation about the attitude of the Minister of Labour in a situation of this sort.
I have often said that a strike is a very regrettable interruption of the normal peaceful labour-management relations that in most cases does, and in all cases should, if at all possible, obtain. When a strike does occur it usually occurs as a result of the accumulation
Interim Supply
of pretty serious grievances by the people concerned. When a government has the power to do something that will hasten the settlement of a strike but fails to act, it is guilty of a very reprehensible omission of action within its authority. If a government cannot do anything because the matter is merely one of negotiation between the workers and the management concerned, and only offers its good offices and the offices of its labour department to seek conciliation, mediation and negotiation, that is one thing. But when a government has within its hands a law for which it is responsible but fails to act quickly enough or with enough vigour and devotion to the situation, then it is dangerously dilatory.
This government does have a law which it brought in and which was heralded throughout the country as a great social advance for labour, and it could act. The previous minister of labour, the present Minister of National Health and Welfare, made some very moving speeches about this great benefit he was producing for the workers under federal jurisdiction when he introduced the Canada Labour (Standards) Code.


There were some wonderful advertisements in the papers.


There were some very good ads in the papers, as my leader suggests. I did not have the pleasure of listening to the minister when he introduced this legislation, because I was not a member of parliament at the time; but because of my interest in this field I carefully read the reports of his speeches which indicated that they were speeches of great hope and satisfaction, if not smugness, in regard to the great good he was performing for the workers of Canada.
[DOT] (12:00 noon)
So you pass a law, and the law says that the standard work week is to be 40 hours. Then you have a strike of workers precisely on the issue of the 40 hour week, and the Minister of Labour sits back and lets the strike continue for nine weeks, doing nothing at all about it.


Shame.


I say to you, Mr. Chairman, that I might have raised this issue on the floor many weeks ago. I did not. Instead I wrote to the Minister of Labour as long ago as February 22. I was not interested then, no more than I am interested now, in raising the issue on the floor merely to make a lot of noise. So I wrote to the Minister of Labour

March 25, 1966
Interim Supply
on February 22 and pleaded with him to make a decision and announce the decision on the application for deferment of the hours of work provided under the Canada Labour (Standards) Code.
I indicated in my letter to him that even if he was not prepared to say the 40 hour week shall be applied immediately, he would perform a service in the present strike if he had the imagination and the will and were ready to say at least that the hours of work from then on would be 42 or 43 hours a week for the next 18 months, and at the end of that time we would have to go back to what the law provides. Even that would have been of some help to the negotiating parties.
I received an answer from the minister dated February 28. I will paraphrase it instead of reading it-and I assure you, Mr. Chairman, that I will paraphrase it accurately-in which he said, "The parties are negotiating. Therefore I am not going to make any statement. I do not think it would serve any purpose."
Therefore I wrote again to the minister on March 1 and pointed out to him what was obvious, that it is his law; that he has a duty to administer it; that he has a duty to make sure the law is applied, not at the whim of employers or even of unions but in the interests of the public; that he has a duty so to act without waiting for the negotiations to drag on and allowing all the evils of the strike to continue. He replied saying, "I don't agree with you. I am not going to act because these people are in negotiation."


Mr. Chairman, would the hon. member permit a question?


Yes.


Before the strike took place, how many hours a week were these people working in the transport industry in Ontario?


An outrageous number of hours, in my opinion. Many of them were working as many as 48 hours a week. Some of them were working a lesser number of hours, but many were working as many as 48 hours a week. They have been fighting to my knowledge for many years to have their hours reduced to the 40 hours which is the standard work week throughout Canada.
Not only has parliament said that there was to be a 40 hour week, and this is what I consider to be-I use this word deliberately-the criminality of the Minister of Labour in not taking action, but I am confident in my

mind that the union might not even have asked for the 40 hour week if it had not been the law. It is an experienced, well established union, and might have asked for a reduction only of four or five hours from the 48 rather than a reduction of the full eight hours. The only reason it asked for the 40 hour week is that it said "Here is the law of Canada. Our parliament said to us that we should not work more than a standard work week of 40 hours. So we go to the negotiating table and ask for it. We ask for what the law provides. Then we are denied it, not only by the trucking firms but by the government that introduced this law." I am almost speechless with indignation at this kind of irresponsible and callous behaviour toward a law of parliament for which the government itself is responsible.
1 said the other day in another connection that I took the trouble, at some considerable time and with some help, to go through the various Canada Gazettes some time ago to find out how many firms and what firms asked for deferment, particularly of part 1 of the Canada Labour (Standards) Code, namely the part that deals with hours of work. This was because a question placed on the order paper by my hon. friend the member for Winnipeg North had not been answered, and I do not think it has yet been answered. Therefore I looked for this information myself. I think I am not exaggerating, in fact I am sure I am not, when I say there is not a single firm that comes under federal jurisdiction which has not asked for deferment under part 1 of the Canada Labour (Standards) Code.
May I take a moment to remind hon. members of the following facts about that code. The code provides that if an application for deferment is made and it appeared in the Canada Gazette for July 1, 1965, there was an automatic deferment of part 1 of the act without any other action by anybody. That automatic deferment could last for no more than 18 months; then the minister is given authority to provide for a further deferment for another 18 months once he has made up his mind on the application for deferment. After that there is provision for a further inquiry in case there is another application for deferment. This, after all, makes the act not a very demanding piece of legislation, despite what the minister boasted about in regard to its provisions. It was not providing
March 25. 1966

the 40 hour week for employees under federal jurisdiction; it was providing an opportunity for them to get it in 36 months or perhaps a little longer.
This is what my letters to the minister requested him to do, namely to indicate that they would have it at the end of the period of deferment provided in the act. Even that the minister has refused to do. If members are told by anybody who replies, if anybody does reply for the government, that there are other issues, let me say that after long years of experience in negotiations and many conversations with leaders of the negotiating committee of the union in the past couple of months, I am absolutely certain that if the minister had the will to carry into effect the law which his government put on the books, there would be a settlement of this strike within days after his so doing; because the issue about which the membership feels most keenly, and rightly so, is that of the 40 hour week.
When I spoke to a number of these workers last Saturday night in Hamilton the answer invariably was "All the people in the Steel Company of Canada, in Canadian Westinghouse and in every other industry in Hamilton, and the same in Windsor, London and Toronto, work a 40 hour week. This is the standard. The federal parliament passed a law giving us the right to the 40 hour work week. Why don't we get it? And we are 'so-and-so' if we go back to work before we get it."
The members of the negotiating committee have said to me-and I am sure they would not mind my saying it to this House of Commons, even though it is part of their negotiations-that they will not necessarily insist on getting the 40 hour week the moment the agreement is signed; that they are prepared to consider-this is why the earlier motion I moved did not say "the immediate implementation of the 40 hour week" but a "rapid transition" toward it-a rapid transition toward the 40 hour week if the employers were willing to consider it.
I have outlined the facts of this matter, Mr. Chairman. I do not intend to prolong my speech. I say it is in the hands of this government to take steps today which within a week will settle the strike which has now lasted for nine weeks. I say that the government has a duty under its own law to take those steps today, not next month or two months from now after people have suffered unnecessarily for a further eight to nine
Interim Supply
weeks. The government has a duty to do this today, because the law is there on the statute books. I say if it does that, it will act like a government with conscience and sense of responsibility for the laws of Canada. If it does not, it will show complete callousness and complete contempt for its own law and its duties under that law.
[Translationi


Mr. Chairman, may I put a question to the hon. member for my information?


Certainly.


Could the hon. member tell the house whether the truckers or employers officially asked the government to intervene in the conflict?
[DOT] (12:10 p.m.)
[English1


Certainly, Mr. Chairman, they have made many demands for intervention by the federal government. As a matter of fact I am sure the Minister of National Health and Welfare will recall some of these because he answered some of them. I have in my file a copy of a telegram that went to the Prime Minister on October 27, during the election campaign. The reply at that time was suitably honeyed; it did not make any definite promises or undertakings, but it had all the honey that a reply during an election campaign is expected to have. I do not blame the right hon. gentleman for that.
I have in my hand a copy of a reply to a telegram dated November 9 to the president of local 879. There have been other communications from the teamsters' locals to the Minister of Labour. There have been numerous interventions emphasizing the request that the 40 hour week be implemented by the government in accordance with the Canada Labour (Standards) Code.
I want to say one further word about a related matter, one of the other issues in dispute, which again could be settled very quickly by the Minister of Labour and the government. I refer to the problem of owner-operators. This problem can be simply stated. It is possible for an employer to circumvent the legislation by making a legal arrangement, either with his own employees or with someone else's, whereby the people doing the trucking are, under the law, not employees of the trucking firm but independent owner-operators. Every time the laws have pinched

March 25, 1966
Interim Supply
the employers too hard, in their opinion, this is what they have done. In the letter of February 22 to the Minister of Labour, to which I have referred, I said this, Mr. Chairman:
You could be of similar assistance with respect to owner-operators. Obviously the labour code is not of much value to an industry like trucking if it is possible for the employer to evade the law by the simple expedient of hiring owner-operators or making some technical legal arrangements enabling the employer to transform employees into alleged owner-operators. The obvious way of closing this loop-hole is to amend the act so that it covers owners-operators as well as employees.
The minister, in his reply dated February 28-I am referring to the present Minister of Labour-stated in the last paragraph:
As regards the inclusion of owner-operators within the scope of the code, this suggestion certainly merits consideration and is one that will be studied when possible amendments to the code are under review.
In this respect, Mr. Chairman, I make this simple suggestion and simple appeal to the minister. If he is studying the proposal and if he is likely to introduce amendments to provide for the inclusion of owner-operators under the code, then let him say so. I appreciate that if it is done it will be done with the necessary qualifications to ensure that we will not be including someone who is really an employer of other people rather than simply an owner-operator. A mere announcement by him that he is giving favourable consideration to that, and that this session or within a short time the act will be amended to cover this loophole, would be sufficient for the unions to give ca