On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I do not know whether or not the Prime Minister is in a position to report to the house, but I would hope he would be able to say something regarding the ominous situation in the Middle East and the report today that various areas in the Middle East are on the brink of an explosion the like of which has not been seen since 1956.


Mr. Speaker, I can only express the hope that the report to which my right hon. friend has referred, that we are on the brink of an explosion in that area involving greater danger than that of 1956, will turn out to be greatly exaggerated. It is true that a dangerous situation has developed as a result of Israel's reaction against what it considered to be serious border provocation. This is the matter which was dealt with by the United Nations Security Council when a resolution was passed criticizing Israel's reaction.
It is also true that there was a report about an air engagement that took place this morning. According to the information so far available, and naturally we are making further inquiries, a small number of Israel and United Arab Republic aircraft were engaged in an action near the midpoint between the Israel and Arab borders. Early reports indicate that two U.A.R. aircraft were shot down in this encounter.
As hon. members are aware, the United Nations has a peace-keeping force stationed in this area. I think we can take some satisfaction from the knowledge that this force is there. We expect to have more precise information shortly and when that information arrives I will report to the house at once.


On the orders of the day:
Will the Prime Minister say whether or not Canada was made aware in advance of the shipment of 36	F-104
Starfighters by the United States to Jordan? Was there any consultation between the United States and Canada before that action was taken and, if so, what attitude did Canada take?


I have seen that report and inquiries are being made to ascertain whether there is any foundation to it, and whether this transfer has in fact taken place. I will be glad to report in that regard as soon as I receive further information.


Will the Prime Minister allow one more question? Does his answer mean that an inquiry is being made as to whether the United States is shipping or has shipped these aircraft, and that there was no consultation between Canada and the United States before this action was taken, if in fact it was taken?


Mr. Speaker, my answer indicates that I have not received authoritative information as to whether or not the transfer in fact has taken place. That is what we are inquiring into.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour regarding reports that the B.C. Maritime Employers Association has decided not to call out working crews, thus constituting a giant lockout in consequence of which, it is reported, some 50 or 60 ships are tied up in the Vancouver harbour. Has this situation been drawn to the minister's attention and what, if anything, is he or his department doing about it?
November 29, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry


Yes, Mr. Speaker, this situation has been drawn to my attention and I have had a discussion about it within the last 15 minutes. The employers have taken and continue to take the position that since they have had to resort to the use of the courts by way of damage actions, and have indicated that they intend to proceed to enforce their legal rights through the courts, consequently this matter is sub judice, and this makes it very difficult for the Minister of Labour or any other official of government to intervene at this time. The employers have stated, and they make no bones about it, that while they have a limited number of supervisory employees, namely their foremen and some former foremen who have been recruited for service, they cannot provide all the direct supervision needed in view of what they allege is a planned work stoppage. Since they are not getting the return for the money they are expending, they have decided on this course of action and have said they are going to press their rights in the courts.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. While the damage action has to do with the employers and does not come under the purview of the Department of Labour, surely the matter of a lockout does. What action does the minister propose to take to see that these men are allowed to return to work and that the ports are allowed to function?


The position that they take is that this is not a lockout. Complaints have been made by some employees that they do not have adequate supervision in certain areas, and employers say on the other hand that it is impossible for them to function effectively.


While I am on my feet I wish to deal with a question asked earlier by the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam (Mr. Douglas). Information that I have received since the question was asked shows that some stevedoring companies on the west coast have not ordered the longshoremen's gangs out to work general cargo-but bulk cargo is still being handled by the gangs. Supervision is being provided by available foremen. My information happily is that grain loading is moving fairly well.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
We are now considering Bill No. C-227 dealing with the medical care plan. Has the minister received any representations from the various provinces asking for the inclusion in that bill of services rendered by podiatrists, optometrists, chiropractors and, if so, does he intend to accede to those requests?


Since the hon. member said himself that the bill was now before the house, he could easily put this question during the discussion in committee.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker. I realize that I can ask questions in committee. Besides, I took that opportunity last night, but I would like to know whether the minister's intention is to include in Bill No. C-227 the services of podiatrists, chiropractors and optometrists.


The hon. member put the same question at ten o'clock last night when the house adjourned and it is my impression that he will probably raise it again later this afternoon.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of the pending visit of Sir Saville Garner, Undersecretary of State for Commonwealth Relations of the British government, to Washington and Ottawa, could the Prime Minister inform us whether he has had consultation with our representative in London serving as chairman of the sanctions committee on Rhodesia, or with the British government with regard to the reply they have received from the Rhodesian government?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we have been in continuous consultation through our High Commissioner at Canada House, the United Kingdom
November 29, 1966	COMMONS DEBATES
High Commissioner here and the British government direct on this matter. As my hon. friend knows, the Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations was in Salisbury visiting the governor for a few days. He has returned to London with certain suggestions made by the de facto government in Salisbury, apparently, through the governor. I understand that the Undersecretary of State for Commonwealth Relations, as my hon. friend has mentioned, will be visiting Washington and Ottawa. I expect to see him when he arrives Friday morning, when he will be bringing the views of the United Kingdom government on the question, presumably, of selective mandatory sanctions which might be put forward by the British government to the United Nations in case the talks with the Rhodesian government in Salisbury finally break down. That is all I think I can say at the moment.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister this question. Assuming that the talks break down, am I right in assuming that the Canadian government will support economic sanctions under article 7 of the United Nations charter?


Mr. Speaker, we have already stated that in the event talks break down and the United Kingdom government produces a resolution at the United Nations for selective mandatory sanctions, after discussion with the British and other commonwealth governments, we would support that resolution.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
The right hon. Prime Minister, as he has just stated, is very well aware of the Rhodesian situation. However, when the right hon. prime minister there, Mr. Ian Smith, decides to disregard both the commonwealth of nations and Canada, is the right hon. Prime Minister of Canada in a position to say whether Canada will approve of coercive action against the Smith government or whether Canada is getting ready to recognize what Mr. Smith is now doing in Rhodesia?


Our position has been made quite clear, that we do not accept the legitimacy of what my hon. friend calls "the Smith
Inquiries of the Ministry government" in Salisbury, and we have already joined other Commonwealth governments in taking economic action against that government through voluntary sanctions. If the matter of UN economic sanctions comes before that body, we would support them, as I have just indicated, if they were on a satisfactory selective basis.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In the last few days a near crisis situation arose in many eastern seaboard cities because of smog and air pollution. One Canadian city was mentioned in the news dispatches. Last week the minister said he would study and answer my question relating to anti-fume devices in 1968 cars. Can he now inform the house whether or not Canadians will enjoy the same protection in 1968 as will United States citizens in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, according to the information which was made available to officials of my department by the manufacturers, the safety devices contemplated will be available for cars for Canadian distribution.


On a supplementary question: Will all cars made in or imported to Canada be equipped with these anti-fume devices, and are Canadians being protected solely because of United States federal government initiative in this regard or because the Canadian government has passed similar regulations?


Order. I wonder whether the second question is in order.


I have a further supplementary, Mr. Speaker. In this regard do the Canadian people have to wait on United States initiative and regulations for protection?


Order, please. I think the supplementary question is argumentative.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the President of the Treasury Board.
November 29, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry


You will win an election on that.


Hear, hear.


Thank you very much. That is accepted with a great deal of humility.
Since the successful solution of the negotiations with the postal employees can the minister advise what is being done or contemplated in respect of other employees in group D?


Mr. Speaker-


The minister cannot answer the question from memory; he has to read it.


Why does the hon. member for Russell ask the minister that question?


Which came first, the question or the answer?


Mr. Speaker, since the successful intervention of Judge Montpetit as mediator to settle the recent dispute with the postal workers, discussions with the Public Service Alliance and the proposed interim increase recommended by the Civil Service Commission for group D have continued.
These discussions were resumed on a bilateral basis at the request of Judge Montpetit who felt that further direct exchanges between representatives of the employer and the Public Service Alliance might prove useful.
These discussions have now reached a point where it would seem to be timely to request Judge Montpetit to enter the picture once again. I have therefore arranged for him to return to Ottawa to resume his functions as mediator in that portion of the dispute which involves the Public Service Alliance, which incidentally represents some 28,000 employees in group D. Judge Montpetit has arranged on very short notice to come to Ottawa tomorrow, and I am hopeful that he will be able to achieve without undue delay a successful result for this group of employees, as he did in the case of the postal workers.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I would have thought Your Honour would have stopped this self-serving statement prepared in advance. It should have been made before the orders of the day. It is very wrong to use up time by this kind of self-serving procedure. I will not say that the question was planted: The question was seeded.


Mr. Speaker, on a point of order, I believe that the settlement in respect to the 28,000 employees in group D-


Mr. Speaker, on a point of order-


-who are in the same classification as the postal workers is an important concern to this house.


Order. I understood that the minister was rising on a point of order.


The minister was making a gratuitous statement that does not answer the question. The concern now being expressed for civil servants is belated, and this is an alibi.


On a point of privilege, Mr. Speaker, I should like to say that no government in history has had more concern for civil servants than the present government.


Order. I doubt whether much could be served by pursuing the point of order, the question or the statement, which it has been suggested was more than a mere answer to a question. There may be some merit in the point raised by the Leader of the Opposition, but the question appeared to be genuine, whether seeded or not. I am afraid that many questions asked from time to time are either seeded or planted, and it is very difficult for the Chair arbitrarily to rule whether or not they are in order. In any event the question was asked, it has been answered and we have had a point of order and a question of privilege. Perhaps we might now go on to something else.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the interest expressed in civil servants I would ask the Prime Minister whether the government has given consideration to the request of the Civil Service Association of Canada contained in a 12-page letter delivered to the government on November 7 asking for action to be taken on behalf of retired civil servants, the R.C.M.P. and armed forces personnel who retired prior to 1953. What action will be taken in this connection?


Mr. Speaker, this matter is under active consideration.
November 29, 1966


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is unsolicited and probably unwanted. Nevertheless I direct it either to the Minister of National Defence or the associate minister. Could either minister confirm to the house what is now a matter of public record, having appeared in at least one major daily newspaper in Canada, and that is the colour of the uniforms proposed for the new Canadian armed forces?


Answer.


On a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker, surely this type of information cannot be allowed to continue to be spread throughout the country by the minister at his discretion. If he is out flying balloons or kites, that is one thing; but surely the house is entitled to have an answer to this question.


Unfortunately for the hon. member the rules do not provide that he is entitled to an answer, or an answer that would satisfy him. If the minister chooses not to reply there is nothing more the Chair can do to help the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, the story that appeared in the newspapers was strictly speculative.


The story was quoting you.


The story did not come from any reliable source that I know about. In any event, when these decisions are taken they will be announced in the usual manner, and I hope I will be able to advise the members of the armed forces before any public announcement is made.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I thank the hon. minister for answering, but are we to conclude that this is just speculation, as the minister suggests, and has no foundation in fact?


It is about as pure speculation as can be, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of

Inquiries of the Ministry Trade and Commerce. Has the question I asked last Wednesday been brought to the attention of the minister?


Mr. Speaker, it has. On Wednesday last the hon. member for Qu'Appelle sought information on the international negotiations with respect to the price of wheat. These negotiations are taking place in the GATT cereals group as an important element of the Kennedy round. In these negotiations Canada, together with the other chief exporting countries, including the United States, is seeking a significantly higher price range than that provided under the current international wheat agreement.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Do I understand that there are no plans to carry out negotiations at all with the International Wheat Council? Does the minister's answer mean that the long-term international wheat agreement is now defunct?


No, I do not believe that assumption would be quite valid. The council representative is in close touch with the negotiations going on at GATT and I think it is fair to say that he has a part to play in the general discussions and negotiations.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. Is the minister reconsidering his previously announced intention to bring in a baby budget, the principal feature of which would be increased taxation for pension purposes?


No, Mr. Speaker. The intention of the government is to proceed with a small budget before Christmas. Of course I might have to change my mind about that if the house does not make satisfactory progress in other legislation. As the hon. member has said, the principal feature of that budget would be to raise money to pay this very important supplement to old age pensions.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Because of the amount of money in the old age security fund, is increased taxation for this purpose necessary?
November 29, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry


Order, please. I do not think the question is in order.


On the orders of the day:
A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, directed to the Prime Minister. Now that the house is well launched in its committee discussion of the medicare legislation and as we have the resolution preceding the old age legislation on the order paper, is the Prime Minister in a position to give the house the assurance that the government has its legislation dealing with old age pensions ready to introduce into the house the moment the resolution passes?


Mr. Speaker, it has been ready for some time.
While I am on my feet-


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, so that the Prime Minister may deal with this matter as well. Can the right hon. gentleman tell us when, under the provisions of this legislation, the first cheques incorporating the increases will be available to the recipients?


Order, please, I doubt if that
question is in order.


On the orders of the day:
My question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Because of statements made in the Federal Power Commission hearings in Washington yesterday, rejecting the proposal to import Canadian gas into the United States on the basis of the gas being too expensive as compared with Texas gas, can the minister tell the house of any communication or information coming from those F.P.C. hearings?


Mr. Speaker, may I take this question as notice and answer tomorrow?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Forestry and Rural Development.
Would he tell the house whether the matter of setting up community pastures, especially in underdeveloped designated areas, comes within the jurisdiction of ARDA?


I think the hon. member is asking the minister for an interpretation of an act, and that type of question is not acceptable.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Labour, who is responsible for Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation. In view of the report in the Globe and Mail this morning that President Johnson has ordered the release of $250 million in special federal mortgage funds to spur the lagging construction of housing in the United States, and because the housing shortage appears to be a North American problem stemming from a lack of funds, is the government contemplating making additional funds available for direct C.M.H.C. loans?


Mr. Speaker, the government's program for direct loans-and direct loans of course include loans for public housing as well as those in the private sector-is under study. A number of officials were actively engaged in a special study yesterday. They have been studying the matter for some time. The government's program for next year will be announced within the next week or so. Certainly it will be announced before 1967.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the minister if figures are available showing the ratio between direct C.M.H.C. lending here, and direct lending in the United States, on a per capita basis?


Order, please. That question seeks statistical information and cannot be asked at this time.
November 29, 1966	COMMONS DEBATES	10495


Mr. Speaker, having read the article-


Order, please. The hon. member for Gaspe.


On the orders of the day:
supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the minister if consideration is being given to reducing the down payments on Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation's houses?


have no knowledge of such a proposal. May I take the question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
On November 25 I inquired of the Minister of Labour if certain amendments to the unemployment insurance regulations had been approved by cabinet. The minister misunderstood me at the time, thinking I referred to agricultural amendments. I now ask the minister if amendments have been approved concerning forestry operators?


The hon. member for Wellington South.


I do not believe the Minister of Labour heard the question.


Read the Globe and Mail.


beg your pardon, sir. There was a diversion on my right. I did not hear the question.


I repeat the question. On November 25 I inquired of the minister about amendments to the U.I.C. regulations. The minister at that time thought I was referring to amendments concerning agricultural employees, whereas I was referring to amendments affecting forestry operators or employees.


Mr. Speaker, if I misunderstood the import of the hon. member's earlier question, I apologize.
The hon. member asked about an earlier statement that I had made. In that earlier statement, in a reply I believe that I gave to the 23033-664
Inquiries of the Ministry hon. member for Humboldt-Melfort-Tisdale (Mr. Rapp), I stated that the new regulations had been passed by the government and were being gazetted. These are the only U.I.C. regulations which have as yet been passed by this government. I have no knowledge of other pending changes in the regulations.


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, since I was informed last June that studies were being undertaken with a view to amending the legislation affecting the employees, would the minister pursue this matter in view of the pressing need to do so?


Mr. Speaker, I think I should mention that the interdepartmental committee that was announced by the Prime Minister some months ago has completed its studies dealing with proposed or suggested amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act. That report, which is a very detailed and comprehensive one, is now under study by me, and I hope to be laying it before my colleagues in the cabinet before too long. I cannot guarantee, however, that this would be within the next two or three weeks.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. It arises from inquiries I have received from printers, publishers and business houses, wondering whether it is permissible to use the insignia or emblem for Expo on certain printed material that they are preparing for publication. Would the minister state the policy in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for giving me notice of his question and I shall endeavour to answer it. The regulations covering the use of the symbol are set forth in the corporation's publication called the Graphics Manual. It is necessary to obtain permission in writing to use the symbol; but generally speaking the Expo corporation, and all of us, wish to see the widest possible use of the symbol. It is therefore general practice to grant permission for the use of it to anybody who wishes to use it to promote the interests of Expo.
If it is to be used for the specific purpose of increasing the saleability of a product, then permission must be obtained in writing and a small fee, negotiable between the user and the
November 29, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry corporation, is charged. Otherwise no fee is charged.


On the orders of the day:
['Hear, hear.']
As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, in light of the fact that a recent survey indicated that most Americans are still unaware of what Expo means, or what the Expo symbol is, can the minister say whether increased advertising is contemplated in the United States, or whether consideration has been given to the use of another name?


No, Mr. Speaker, there is no intention to use another name. The message is getting home. There is more penetration now and recent surveys have shown that Expo is better known and understood in the United States.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday I indicated in reply to a question that we would be participating in meeting or helping to meet the requirements for imported food into India to cope with the danger of famine, a very real danger in that country. Canadian officials have been examining the Canadian supply and transportation situation and, on the basis of the present evidence, they have advised the government that up to $21 million worth of foodstuffs required by India, largely wheat but some flour, could be moved in the next few months.
The government will therefore ask parliament to provide in the current fiscal year a supplementary vote of $22,500,000 for food aid, and in the fiscal year 1967-68 parliament will be asked to vote $75 million for food aid. This, Mr. Speaker, will permit Canada to maintain the food aid program for India at the exceptionally high level of the current year, and also to make an appropriate response to the requests that have come in from Pakistan for Canadian assistance in this field.


Hear, hear.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and ask whether his deputy, Mr. Cote, was correct in declaring in Quebec city recently that the government is preparing legislation to protect Indian arts and crafts?


Mr. Speaker, my deputy rushed to me the following morning to assert that he had made no such statement.


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, may I ask the minister whether in fact he is preparing such legislation.


Mr. Speaker, I am preparing it. [Translation]


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Finance.
A few days ago I asked him if the $5,400,000 loan made by Canada to Mexico was an interest free loan granted by the Bank of Canada or some other Canadian financial body. The minister told me then that he was taking my question as notice. Is he today in a position to tell me if interest is being charged on that amount of $5,400,000?


Mr. Speaker, I draw the hon. member's attention to yesterday's Hansard, page 10445 and there he will find the answer.


I wish to ask a supplementary question.


Order. The hon. member cannot ask a supplementary question to a question ruled out of order.


I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Finance.
He told me to refer to yesterday's Hansard. Now, is the minister in a position to tell the
November 29, 196G

house how much time Mexico will have to repay that $5,400,000 loan?


Order. I do not know to what extent it is possible for me to rule out of order the second part of the question, but it seems to me that the hon. member is now asking for detailed information which could be easily obtained some way other than asking a question at this stage of our proceedings.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the hon. Minister of Finance is authorized to tell me the rate of interest, which is 6 per cent on the amount of $5,400,000, could the minister not also inform the house as to the length of time for which it is granted to Mexico?


Order. I was worrying about this. I think the hon. minister did not have the right to tell the member what the interest was.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, following up the question I posed to the Minister of Labour yesterday regarding the supplementary brief of the city of Oshawa in respect to the impact of the auto pact on that city, I wish to ask the minister when the city of Oshawa can expect reasonably to receive a reply or decision on the requests contained in that supplementary brief?


At an early date, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works, and I hope he will forgive me for not giving him notice of my intention to do so.


Absolution granted.


In view of the action by five Carleton University students in taping 30 minutes of the question period in the house last Thursday, does the minister propose to tighten security measures for the protection of members and of the press gallery?
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order. I am sure the hon. member knows that this is a matter which comes under the jurisdiction of the Speaker. Perhaps he would like to communicate with the Chair in this respect.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, the other day the right hon. Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Diefenbaker) asked for additional information respecting recent announcements regarding Mr. Earl Cameron of the C.B.C., which I have now obtained. Effective December 11, Mr. Stanley Burke, former C.B.C. correspondent in Paris and London, is to replace Mr. Earl Cameron as regular night national news reader on the C.B.C. English television network.
It is proposed that Mr. Cameron be reassigned to early evening network news. This will have the effect of replacing Mr. Lamont Tilden in the latter assignment; but this is no reflection of Mr. Tilden's ability nor does it mean that he can no longer be useful as a news announcer.
The replacement of Mr. Earl Cameron does not represent any change in the basic policy of C.B.C. news, nor is it a demotion for Mr. Cameron. The Cameron-Burke change was first recommended by the management of the news service as part of a plan to develop broadcasters who would be able to combine the specialized talents of both announcers and news reporters. This plan has been discussed with the two unions involved and, as an interim step, the appointment of Mr. Burke, a qualified journalist, to the role of news reader for the national news bulletin was recommended by the news service and approved by senior management of the corporation.
In using an experienced professional journalist to present the news, the C.B.C. is following a practice which is widely and successfully used elsewhere. The forthcoming changes constitute a re-assignment and in no way reflect on Mr. Cameron, an outstanding news reader who has been appreciated by the Canadian audience.


Hear, hear.


Is everybody happy now?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask

November 29, 1966
Medicare
the minister a question. What did the union which represents the broadcasters have to say regarding this decision and, second, what qualifications has Mr. Burke, great as they are, to take the place of one who throughout the years has been able to enunciate the news and place before the people of Canada what is taking place day after day in a way which has met with general approval? Why change it?


Mr. Speaker, I do not wish to appear to be flippant about this matter because it is obvious from correspondence that a number of people would prefer to continue on with what has been the practice in the past, and retain Mr. Cameron. There really seems to be little more information I can obtain. It is within the C.B.C.'s responsibility to manage and they have decided in the news department to try a new look. While I am quite aware of what my right hon. friend and members of the public are saying, I really feel I have no right to interfere in this matter and can only report to him what the situation is.


On the orders of the day:
To answer a further query of the right hon. gentleman, the C.B.C. news will continue to be governed, as it has been since the establishment of the service in January, 1941, by the following policy directive:
Integrity of C.B.C. News:	The policy which
guides operations of the C.B.C. National News Service is based on the primary conception that the service is in the nature of a public trust: to present by radio and television all the significant news of the day's happening in Canada and abroad factually, without bias or distortion, without tendentious comment, and in a clear and unambiguous style.
[DOT] (3:20 p.m.)


The house resumed, from Monday, November 28, consideration in committee of Bill No. C-227, to authorize the payment of contributions by Canada toward the cost of insured medical care services incurred by provinces pursuant to provincial medical care insurance plans-Mr. MacEachen-Mr. Batten in the chair.
On subclause (d)-"insured services".
When the committee rose last evening we were dealing with subclause
[Mr. Diefenbaker.l
(d) of clause 2 and the amendment proposed by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. If it is the wish of the committee, I am prepared at this time to make a ruling on the amendment.


Agreed.


I am in agreement as long as I do not lose my right to speak afterwards.


First of all, I should like to thank hon. members for the contributions which they have made to the discussion in respect of whether or not the amendment before the committee at this time is valid. Much of the discussion which followed the moving of the present amendment by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre centred around the desirability of including in insured services the services of optometrists. As I pointed out on an earlier occasion, this is not a matter to be decided by the Chair. What will be or will not be included must be defined by the bill itself.
The question to be decided by the Chair is whether or not the present amendment is procedurally correct, and whether it involves charges or obligations over and above what was authorized by the resolution which preceded Bill No. C-227 and which was adopted by the house on July 12, 1966.
The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre, in supporting his amendment, quoted from Beauchesne's third edition, page 439. This citation is similar to section 3 of citation 250 contained in Beauchesne's fourth edition and, in my view, applies more directly to proceedings in the committee stage on the resolution than to proceedings on the committee stage of the bill. His further citations from May's thirteenth edition are those which have given me greater concern. I have been impressed, too, with the argument presented by the member for Fraser Valley as recorded on page 10473 of Hansard and by the hon. member for Greenwood, page 10483 of Hansard.
On an earlier occasion I quoted citation 246 of Beauchesne's fourth edition with reference to such amendments as we now have before the committee. I should like to quote citation 246 again, or that part of it which is applicable to this particular situation. Citation 246, subsection (3) at page 207 reads as follows:
The guiding principle in determining the effect of an amendment upon the financial initiative of the Crown is that the communication, to which the royal demand of recommendation is attached, must be treated as laying down once and for all (Unless withdrawn and replaced) not only the amount of a charge, but also its objects, purposes, conditions and qualifications.
November 29, 1966

I continue to believe that this principle should be seriously considered. A previous amendment to bring paramedical services within the ambit of Bill No. C-227 was ruled out of order. In the opinion of the Chair the amendment by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre is a limited or specific part of the proposal put forward by the hon. member for Hamilton South. In other words, the present amendment proposes a restricted form of the larger question.
It is the opinion of the Chair that the present amendment tends to exceed the objects and purposes of the resolution preceding this bill. It tends to extend the services for which provision was originally made. In this connection, may I refer hon. members to May's seventeenth edition, page 798 where, in dealing with the procedure on amendments, the following is found:
The approval or the reduction of the expenditure under consideration, or an increase in the stringency of the terms and conditions of the charge thereby created, are the matters specially entrusted to such a committee, and to these objects amendments are directed.
An amendment proposing to substitute for the resolution an argumentative justification for the refusal of the demand is out of order, as are also amendments proposed with a view to substituting an alternative scheme to that proposed with the royal recommendation.
In accordance with the constitutional principle which reserves the initiative in finance to the Crown, the terms of the message under the sign manual or of the resolution recommended by the Queen for imposing a charge are treated as laying down a maximum charge, which amendments may reduce but may not extend, in respect of the amount of the expenditure, the area of its operation and the objects to which and the conditions under which it applies.
I should like to particularly draw to the attention of the committee the last words of that citation namely "the area of its operation and the objects to which and the conditions under which it applies."
It is for those reasons I regretfully have to rule the proposed amendment out of order.
Perhaps I should point out to the two hon. members who are now standing that I did make a commitment to the hon. member for Villeneuve before I made my ruling.


Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will no longer deal with the amendment moved by the member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles), since it has just been ruled out of order.
Mr. Chairman, we will simply come back to Bill No. C-227, which is before us. This
Medicare
Bill No. C-227, indeed stipulates quite clearly that the federal government shall dictate what the provinces have to do in the field of medical insurance. And I repeat here what I was saying yesterday, namely that first, such a plan must provide complete coverage and extend to all the services performed by medical practitioners.
Mr. Chairman, there are services essential to the health of the Canadian people which cannot be performed by medical practitioners, but which can be performed by those who are familiar with the treatment or people specializing in a particular field, such as chiropractic and podiatry, for instance. I received telegrams from Vancouver this morning. The Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. MacEachen) has undoubtedly also received similar telegrams. [English]
Dear Mr. Caouette,
A news release by Robt. Cohen of the Ottawa bureau appeared in the Vancouver Province Nov. 24th stating that the federal medicare program may cover a wider range of services including podiatry. The B.C. podiatry association is most interested in placing before you the following observations.
1.	The treatment of foot problems will be included in the coverage offered. Podiatrists are legally qualified and licensed to treat these problems.
[DOT] (3:30 p.m.)

Podiatrists are recognized in British Columbia and Alberta. And now the present federal government does not want to recognize them or would not join with these two provinces, respecting the laws they passed.
Second-

2.	If podiatrists are not covered for these foot conditions by the bill people will simply go to the practitioners whose services are insured. The expense will still be there and the podiatrist will have been discriminated against.

Mr. Chairman, I believe that the Minister of National Health and Welfare must agree with this view that medical practitioners who are in no way specialists in this field will be paid for services which they will be unable to perform as completely and adequately as podiatrists can.
Third-

3.	Podiatrists are included on the paramedical staff of the Vancouver General hospital and have been covered by workmen's compensation for the past 15 years. M.S.A. and C.U. and C. the two

November 29, 1966
Medicare
larger provincial medical health underwriters include podiatry services in their extended health plans. Federal government employees plan includes podiatry services.
4.	A preponderance of patients requiring foot care fall in the old age pension group. It is to be hoped that any widening of coverage in the medicare program will seriously consider the foot health of this group.
Sincerely,
N. Mathews, B.Sc., DSC, President, B.C. Podiatry Assn.

Mr. Chairman, this comes from British Columbia and, besides, the Minister of National Health and Welfare is quite aware of this. As far as the province of Quebec is concerned, I read in the newspaper Le Devoir, in the March 24, 1965 edition-almost two years ago-the following:
Quebec will have its own health insurance plan within two years.
Now, this means that on March 24, 1967, Quebec will have its own health insurance plan. A statement to this effect was made by the former premier of the province of Quebec, Mr. Jean Lesage, who said:
The experience I had in Ottawa, in 1950, when I presided the Senate and the House of Commons joint committee on old age pensions has convinced me of the excellent work that can be performed through a body made up of representatives of both houses.
I have already submitted certain names to the cabinet, said Mr. Lesage. Normally, he added, such a committee should include experts representing the government, insurance companies, medical practitioners, and so on, an economist and an actuary.
Mr. Chairman, it was after this statement made by the former premier of the province of Quebec on March 24, 1965, that the then federal minister of national health and welfare said:
Under the Canada Assistance Plan that we are ready to put up one dollar for every dollar now spent by the provinces on mothers allowances, an assistance to mothers with dependent children.
We are ready to share the costs of health services provided by the provinces to public assistance recipients.
[DOT] (3:40 p.m.)
The former minister of national health and welfare, the present Secretary of State who was minister of national health said:
We shall arrange to include the costs of medical, nursing, dental, optical and pharmaceutical care.
She said that on April 20, 1965, a month after the statement made by the Quebec premier, Mr. Jean Lesage. A month later, Ottawa said: We will follow step, we will give dollar for dollar to the provinces which

will take steps to include medical, nursing, dental, optical and pharmaceutical care. And today, Mr. Chairman, two or three amendments have been refused so far because, according to the minister, they would entail additional expenditures.
Why is the present Minister of National Health and Welfare introducing in the house a bill which does not agree with what his predecessor told us on April 20, 1965, when it was stated that everything would be included, medical, nursing, dental, optical and pharmaceutical care. Today, an attempt is made to limit Bill No. C-227 with regard to medical care and paramedical care, which are related to medicine just the same. As far as I know, a chiropractor, for instance, does not prevent a physician from practising his profession, medicine, but I know that, quite often, a physician needs a chiropractor to help him heal someone. The same thing happens in the dental field. Why is not a dentist officially recognized under Bill No. C-227? Or an optometrist? The minister knows very well that the ophthalmologist will put in a claim for an eye examination, giving another reason to be paid by the state or from public funds, whereas the optometrist will not be able to do so.
Mr. Chairman, I am not a physician, I will not be in charge of the medical care program proposed by the government. However, I want to put the government and the department face to face with their own contradictions. I did not state in April that all services would be included and that the federal government was ready to spend dollar for dollar, with any province, for a full medical care program. And today Bill No. C-227 says exactly the opposite: optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors are excluded. All kinds of professions are excluded.


Before the 1965 elections.


Before the 1965 elections, naturally. Before elections, the government is always willing to do everything; but after the elections, the bill is limited, slashed; in plain language, it is shrivelled down to the dimensions allowed by the financial means available to the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. MacEachen):
Moreover, I am convinced that the minister agrees with me; if he had the money, he would be the first to accept the amendments, the first to recognize that podiatrists, chiropractors, optometrists should be put on the same footing as medical practitioners. What
November 29, 1966

prevents him from doing so, as concerns the proposed plan? The financial system. But the minister does not say so. He tells us: we cannot afford to do it. Why not, when it is physically possible, when we have podiatrists, chiropractors, optometrists, when the physical means exist, are tangible? The minister tells us that the budget is too small and that such high expenditures cannot be considered. In my opinion, the fact that Bill No. C-277 is restricted to one or two main social classes will require us to conduct investigations which will cost more to the government than all those professionals, such as optometrists, chiropractors, podiatrists and others were covered by the bill. The minister will find that out. It might take two, three, five years or even longer and the present minister will probably no longer be minister at that time, but in any case, the solution to the medical problem of Canada is not the one provided in the present bill.
I feel rather that the federal government and the Minister of National Health and Welfare should fully co-operate with the provinces. Besides, the province of Alberta has told him: Do not dictate our line of action to us. We have our own plan. Both Alberta and British Columbia have a medical insurance plan and object to the federal government interfering or assuming rights which do not belong to it. The provinces say: Let us administer our own plan; help us if you wish, but do not interfere. We welcome your assistance, but do not dictate our policy. The province of Quebec wants the same thing.
I feel that the medical field comes under provincial jurisdiction and that the only thing the federal government can do is to help the provinces as much as possible; let the federal government contribute on a fifty-fifty basis to the implementation of a medicare plan in Quebec, Alberta and Ontario. Premier Robarts of Ontario said himself: respect our wishes.
Mr. Chairman, the Minister of National Health and Welfare will then help the provinces instead of annoying them. In its present form, Bill No. C-227 annoys the provinces in general. When it is said that the plan should be sponsored by a provincial government but recommended by the federal government, then the latter comes up with the bill and asks the province to sponsor Bill No. C-227.
Third, the portability of benefits from one province to another is an excellent provision.
Medicare
Fourth, all residents of a province should be eligible. That is also quite good.
But for the federal government to dictate the medical plan to be carried out and ask a province afterwards to sponsor a bill which it has introduced is, I feel, nonsensical and illogical. I agree especially with the former Quebec premier who stated:
Quebec will have its own health insurance plan within two years.
All he asked was that Ottawa help the province establish its plan as in Ontario, Alberta, etc.-
The following may also be read in the newspaper article from Le Devoir, and I quote:
Close co-operation among physicians.
What kind of medical care plan will Quebecers have? At present, according to various sources of information, it appears that the government is leaning toward a plan resembling that of Alberta more than that of Saskatchewan.
Because the Alberta plan has more respect for individual freedom, freedom of the patient, than does the Saskatchewan plan.
In doing so, they would be acting in accordance with the recommendations made by the "College des medecins" in a brief submitted to the Prime Minister last September.
That was in September, 1964.
The brief recommended a universal medical care plan available to everyone covering the whole spectrum of medical services, including diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation and prevention, leaving the physicians free to choose whether or not they will subscribe to the plan which will be financ