Mr. Speaker, with the permission of the house I would like to make a reference to a national event, epitomizing the pride of Canadians, whatever province they may live in. With the two teams that participated in the Grey Cup on Saturday it was indeed a politician's paradise because no matter where you stood or where you lived you could express the hope that the rough riders would win. However, coming from the province of Saskatchewan where we have had a football drought that lasted more than half a century, the outcome of the game was of such importance that it deserves historic reference. To the Saskatchewan Roughriders, the winners of the Grey Cup, I am sure members in all parts of the house would want to join in congratulations. To the Ottawa Rough Riders, our congratulations also for the high sportsmanship they displayed; and to all the participants among the various teams throughout the season, finally culminating in this great classic, there must be the appreciation of Canadians for the degree to which football has brought us all together in a unity that otherwise is sometimes doubted.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps you would permit us on this side of the house to associate ourselves with the words of the right hon. gentleman in congratulating the Saskatchewan Roughriders on winning this great national contest on Saturday. Mr. Speaker, you can imagine how delighted I, personally, was at this victory, having so many friends in Saskatchewan to whom I owe so much.


Oh, oh.


The right hon. gentleman talked about the football drought in Saskatchewan. There are of course other kinds of drought, but in any event it was a great
sporting game, well played, and as the right hon. gentleman has said our congratulations go out both to the winners and to the losers.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if the members in this party would also be allowed to send their congratulations to the Saskatchewan Rough-riders on their outstanding victory last Saturday. As has been said, Saskatchewan has been trying a long time for the Grey Cup. The last time they contested the finals was also against Ottawa, in 1951. Saskatchewan has always had some difficulty with Ottawa, not just in football; but this time they were successful, and I think the main tribute should go to the fans in Saskatchewan who have stayed with the Saskatchewan Rough-riders through thick and thin, and supported their team even when it was at the bottom of the league. Their tenacity and perseverance has paid off, and we in this party would certainly like to add our congratulations to them upon their outstanding victory.


Hear, hear.
[DOT] (2:40 p.m.)


Mr. Speaker, I have just returned from the Annual Ministerial Council meeting, in Paris, of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. I beg leave to table the communique of this meeting in both English and French.
This was the fifth annual meeting of the O.E.C.D. which, in 1961, succeeded the O.E.E.C., the Organization for European Economic Co-operation. In 1961, O.E.C.D. ministers established a collective target of 50 per cent growth in real terms for member countries as a whole in the decade 1960-70.
At this year's meeting, satisfaction was expressed that the rate of growth so far has been in excess of that necessary to reach the target, and that prospects for the remainder of the decade continue to be good. It was recognized, however, that the problem remains of
November 28, 1966

Report on O.E.C.D. Meeting containing inflationary pressures while maintaining a high level of employment.
The organization is doing useful work on the payments relations between member countries, and ministers gave instructions for the continuance of this work and the organization's efforts toward the improved operation of capital markets. The O.E.C.D. will also pursue its study of the nature and consequences of differences in scientific and technical levels between countries-the so-called technological gap.
So far as trade is concerned, ministers discussed the current multilateral negotiations in Geneva and stressed the importance of ensuring their success. This was an aspect to which I devoted particular attention in my own comments. I also commented on changing economic attitudes in east European countries. I suggested that the organization should be giving attention to the possibilities of further developing east-west trade, and bringing the eastern European countries to a greater extent into the world trading family. This subject was also raised by the United States and Belgian delegates, and a special reference to it was included in the communique.
Much attention was devoted to the aid and trade needs of the developing countries, including the growing need for food aid, for technical and other assistance to increase domestic agricultural production in developing nations which are short of food, and for greater self-help efforts by these countries themselves. This is a world problem and all countries in a position to help have a role to play. I urged that the burden of food aid should be shared equitably and not fall disproportionately on exporters of grain and other foodstuffs.
On aid more generally, a consensus was reached that the volume being made available should be increased and terms and conditions improved from the point of view of the needy countries. On behalf of Canada, I suggested that more attention should be given to an attempt to measure more exactly the effectiveness and contribution to developmental progress of aid being provided. In general, the meeting was productive and constructive and the exchange of views on the major economic issues was of high quality.
I had an opportunity to have discussions with the ministers of the various countries, including Mr. Debre of France, the United States representative, Mr. Rostow and the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Right Hon. James

Callaghan. Mr. Callaghan and I naturally discussed, among other things, the new approach to the European Common Market. Mr. Callaghan confirmed that the United Kingdom is serious in its efforts to join the European Economic Community. He said that by January the United Kingdom government would be actively engaged in a round of visits to the various countries of the E.E.C. He therefore suggested that the first meeting of the Canada-United Kingdom Ministerial Committee be held then in London so that, among other things, they would be in a position to inform us fully and more currently of progress in their negotiations.
I indicated that it had been our hope to have the inaugural meeting in Canada, but that I was confident for the purposes outlined, the Canadian side would be prepared to meet in London. Mr. Callaghan assured me that there had been no change in the Labour government's intention to attempt to safeguard essential commonwealth interest.
I met with our trade commissioners, who are doing a good job in promoting Canadian exports to France, and again visited the new Travel Bureau Office which was opened during my last visit to Paris in September. The results of the establishment of this office are most gratifying.
Inquiries about travel to Canada have jumped from a level of 200 to 300 a month to an average of about 1,500 in October and November. This reflects both the advantage of having a well-located and staffed office in the centre of population in a country well disposed toward Canada, and the impact that Expo '67 is making in Europe.
Mr. Sydney Pierce, our chief negotiator in Geneva for the Kennedy round, came to Paris on my invitation to give me a first-hand report of the progress being made in these important and confidential trade negotiations, which are now in their active phase. There are still considerable uncertainties and difficulties to be overcome but, provided there is an adequate response to the offers and requests for concessions which have been made, we may expect a very significant result both from the point of view of Canadian interest and the widening of world trading opportunities as a whole.


Mr. Speaker, being from Saskatchewan I think it will be generally understood that I am in a good mood today.
November 28, 1966	COMMONS
I should like to thank the minister for providing the opposition with a copy of his remarks a few minutes before the house opened.
It is worth while at this time to remember the objectives which were laid down in 1961 at the meeting in Paris when Canada and the United States joined the O.E.C.D. as full-fledged partners. The objective of a 5 per cent growth rate per year has been maintained by all member countries. At the time we attended this meeting the minister of finance and I represented Canada and we thought that 5 per cent was a growth rate that would be worth-while striving for, and would be a worth while achievement if it could be maintained. Due to the expansionist policy adopted at that time I think all countries concerned can take credit for the fact that this growth rate has been achieved each year since 1961.
1 do not intend to say anything about the troubles involved in arranging the mutual and advantageous flows of capital from one country to the other, because that subject is too involved to be covered by this type of statement. I should like to make a remark, however, about the British entry into the European common market.
It is my hope that these ministerial meetings will be held frequently and in a mood of mutual self help. Canada should put foward some clear and positive alternatives which the United Kingdom can use in its bargaining position with the European common market. It should make it known to Britain that it does not stand alone in its particular economic trouble. In this regard it should also be pointed out that the United Kingdom still has to overcome the objections of France and to a lesser degree of Italy and Germany in relation to being received into the European common market. Canada's interests are definitely concerned and we expect from the Canadian side a full representation of those interests.
It was nice of the minister to mention the growth in our tourist trade. Only ten years ago we proposed that Canada could have a billion dollar industry by 1967 if we set our minds to it. The various tourist offices in various parts of the United States, in Paris and in London, have demonstrated our faith in the idea that if we could have tourist centres like the ones we have they would create a positive pay-off.
[DOT] (2:50 p.m.)
The last comment I am going to make concerns the question of the Geneva discussions.
23033-66O2
Report on O.E.C.D. Meeting As usual, the minister has expressed generalizations which say nothing and do not get at the real meat of the problem. In connection with the Geneva discussions, it is very clear that the problem before the nations is that in the so-called non-discriminatory type of proposals in GATT they were actually discriminating against the newly developing nations. The best that the Geneva conference has been able to come up with yet is that some sort of combined hand-outs should be arranged for the newly developing nations, on a formula basis.
I suggest this is far from being good enough. The time has come for Canada and all the industrial nations of the world to realize that this great gulf between the developing nations and the industrial nations is growing wider each year. We expect from our governments positive leadership in trying to provide institutions to bridge this gulf.
Proposals have been made in this house and across this country for several years now; I have listed them before and shall do so again. We need a new type of international commodity agreement that will give to the developing nations a fair and stable price for their products. We must think of the interest of the developing nations first, if this proposal is to succeed. It is time this gulf was bridged by the use of international trading arrangements. We have such international trading organizations in connection with grain. This idea should be extended to all goods which can be graded, shipped, and stored. We will need, for many years to come, bilateral give-aways, but we should be trying to bring about these basic institutions of trade in order that we may bridge this gulf in a practical self-help manner.
Other ideas should be brought forward, such as buying and selling agencies in order that we may deal directly with state trading nations, which have only one agency with which to deal. This idea should be developed. In addition we need some form of clearing house for short term and medium term credits. When dealing with countries such as the United Kingdom, which is fully developed, there has to be a growth rate exchange between our two countries on a bilateral basis. As well there must be growth rate exchanges with other countries outside the O.E.C.D.
These ideas will take time to develop, but every country in the world is waiting to see how the industrial nations of the world will take the initiative to bridge this gulf between the developed nations and the newly developing nations. This is the test of our generation.
November 28, 1966

Report on O.E.C.D. Meeting In the generalized statements issued by the minister today I see no evidence that the O.E.C.D. or the Geneva discussions on GATT are producing the type of positive proposal that will help in a tangible way to bridge the gulf between those nations which are industrialized and the people of the world who are insisting on a better standard of living to match our standards.


Mr. Speaker, I want to join the hon. member who has just sat down in thanking the minister for sending opposition parties copies of his statement. I want to add, in case he wants to get cross with any of his officers, that the copies which were supplied to us contained all the pages in the proper order.


Oh, oh.


The O.E.C.D. is a consultative body and not a policy-making body. One therefore could not expect the minister to bring us a report of actual policies arrived at. I want to limit my remarks very briefly to two or three points only. I join with the hon. member for Qu'Appelle (Mr. Hamilton) in urging that a new approach to international trade is long overdue. As I read the minister's statement, I could not help but recall the hopes that all of us had in the early years after the war in the setting up of the International Monetary fund, the International Bank and the various international trade agencies, all of which were intended to assist both the developing and the developed nations and increase economic exchange among countries of the world. I think it is true to say, without appearing pessimistic or cynical, that all of them have had very limited success.
One of the great dangers in the world at the present time is the fact that these important international agencies, some of which have been in existence for 20 years, have achieved relatively little in the years spent in discussions and conversations. Everyone here knows this as well as I do and regrets it as much as I do, but it does suggest that a country like Canada should be proposing new approaches to the problem instead of being satisfied with discussions at Geneva. The government of a country like Canada should be giving leadership in those areas where it is possible for us to do so.
This brings me to the other two points I should like to make. The minister has referred to the difficulties we face in giving aid to other countries, particularly aid in the form of food. This emphasizes the necessity for the

establishment of an adequate world food bank. I cannot help but recall the fact that some years ago when this was proposed at a general assembly of the United Nations ministers of the Canadian government were among those who opposed the idea because, they said, we could not afford it. This was back in 1953 or 1954. We should change this attitude. We are a country which can start a world food bank by making available our resources for this purpose. In this area leadership from a country such as Canada would supply the impetus to proceed from mere discussions to active accomplishment.
The same is true in general about aid to the developing countries. As has been pointed out in various debates, Canada's contribution to the developing countries at the present time is a niggardly one. It is away below the 1 per cent which is our present objective in the United Nations. It has seemed to be a larger figure because our grants and also our loans and credit arrangements are included in the amount. Our actual contribution, as distinct from credits and loans, amounts to about one third of 1 per cent of our gross national product. Here is an area in which instead of merely engaging in discussions with others and regretting the insufficiency of aid to developing countries, we could give leadership by increasing our own aid to an adequate level.
Finally, if I may, let me urge the minister on behalf of this party not to wait for Mr. Callaghan's report on the negotiations for entry into the European Economic Community, which might put Canada in a position of having to object to or protest against some of the terms for the entry of the United Kingdom into the common market. This government would be well advised to discuss with the United Kingdom government some of the effects which the entry of the United Kingdom into the common market might have on this country. Let us persuade them to take such action at present as would not harm Canada or other members of the British Commonwealth at a future date.
I conclude my remarks in the hope that Canada will act so as to give leadership to other countries through the development of new policies in these areas.


Mr. Speaker,
the minister has just returned from a meeting in Paris of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development or in French
November 28, 196$

"L'Organisation de cooperation et de de-veloppement economique."
It is unfortunate that the minister does not have a French copy of the statement he made this afternoon; we only have an English copy, and yet, that meeting was held in Paris where, I believe, the discussions were conducted mainly in French. One of his officials called my office this morning to tell me that the French translation had not been done. It seems that, under similar circumstances, and in view of the importance of such a meeting, the minister could have waited for the French translation and made his statement tomorrow instead of today. Then the country's two important groups would have been respected, the English speaking group and the French speaking group.
Mr. Speaker, all this brings me to consider a few remarks in the minister's statement, particularly on page 3 where he says:
[DOT] (3:00 p.m.)

Much attention was devoted to the aid and trade needs of the developing countries, including the growing need for food aid, for technical and other assistance to increase domestic agricultural production in food-short developing nations and for greater self-help efforts by these countries themselves.

Canada's intentions, as well as the intentions of those countries which met in Paris are of prime importance. But after visiting countries like the U.S.S.R., Czechoslovakia, and this year, Iran, I think that the greatest problem of those countries, especially in the case of Iran, pertains to education. Even though we may send food, equipment, technical assistance, if we do not send them technicians to train them, we are losing our time. Besides, the history of those countries goes back 3,000, 4,000 and 5,000 years and thanks to our fast means of communication today, those countries are practically our neighbours.
This summer, for instance, I met in Iran a Mr. Lariviere, a Canadian technician in mechanics, who was sent there to teach mechanics to young Iranian students. After teaching for nine months Mr. Lariviere tells me that he has been unable to show them a single thing to enable them to develop and go ahead, according to their own abilities. They do not want to learn. This is quite a problem. And Mr. Lariviere tells me that Canada wants him to teach them in two
Report on O.E.C.D. Meeting years what it took him six years to learn in Canada.
Mr. Speaker, I feel that we should help countries which need food. In India, for example, where there are 250 million cows, half of the population of that country, it has been suggested that God should be worshipped instead of cows and that those cows should be used as food.
The Hindus still have not understood; they are fighting among themselves to save cows instead of saving the people.
Therefore, it became a matter of education and as long as we keep on discussing-in Paris or here in Ottawa, or anywhere in the world-ways of providing them with material assistance, machinery, technicians or even food, if we do not begin by making them realize their own responsibilities, Mr. Speaker, we are wasting our time.
And when the minister told them: [English]
On behalf of Canada, I suggested that more attention should be given to an attempt to measure more exactly the effectiveness and contribution to developmental progress of aid being provided.

The minister is right then in discussing the means which would enable them to progress independently.
In Iran, Mr. Speaker, where a large quantity of American machinery could be seen, which the United States had given to Iran, Persia, what offended me was to hear the people criticize the United States. In addition to the machinery, for which the United States asked nothing in return, that country even had to be provided with operators because its people cannot operate the machines themselves, they cannot because they do not have the necessary knowledge. And yet, the Americans were accused of being bad capitalists.
Therefore, the minister is right in saying that we must endeavour to inform those people, to educate them, to show them how to assume their responsibilities; and then, we will be most happy to help them to progress and achieve a standard of living comparable to the one we enjoy here in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I will try to keep my comments very short and to the point. I wish to touch on several matters which may not have been mentioned
November 28, 1966

Report on O.E.C.D. Meeting in the remarks of the other opposition speakers.
We are grateful for having received prior to the calling of the house, a copy of the remarks to be made by the minister. I found his remarks most interesting, as they relate to Britain entering the European Common Market and to the general area of trade between those countries now comprising the O.E.C.D. This has direct reference to the Atlantic community and correlates with some of the discussions which took place at the NATO parliamentarians conference which preceded this one. I believe that every opportunity for consultation and co-ordination that can be fostered between the various countries to develop freer trade is worth while.
I wonder whether the minister might not have made a few more remarks regarding the prospects of freeing general trade restrictions, which by the way should be in line with the policies discussed by his own party, but which I believe on a broader scale are the only answer to meeting the problems facing us today in the world, problems which are inherent to international relations.
His remarks concerning countries short of food are also most timely. I wonder whether the minister could have reported anything with regard to the current desperate food situation existing in India. Certainly talk alone is not sufficient to meet the problem of world food distribution.
I would also add that I believe it is vital to this very problem not just to give food aid, or provide educational programs to help people handle, process and increase their own food production. It is in the area of international settlements where today our whole food distribution program in Canada is lopsided. Many countries cannot trade with Canada because of their international settlements problem.
I should like to see Canada take a lead in this regard, because unless through an improved system of international settlements, we can free restrictions which presently hinder our trade patterns, we will never be able to solve the current problems connected with trading prospects not only between the countries of O.E.C.D. but with other countries with which we are now developing an increased trade pattern.
It is also a very good thing that the minister has had further contacts with our own trade commissioners in various countries, because it is through the work and the offices of these

gentlemen that the increasing trade patterns that are ours are coming into being. Every opportunity for co-operation and consultation in this regard is good. We appreciate the remarks of the minister.


Mr. Speaker, I should now like to make a brief statement to advise the house of the special quota policy which was announced today by the Canadian Wheat Board with respect to producer marketings of Durum wheat.
There has been a strong market demand for Duram wheat for the past several months. By the close of navigation the board will have shipped virtually all of the Durum wheat which they have been able to move into export positions, and they are anxious that terminal and seaboard stocks of this type of grain be built up during the winter months so that additional sales commitments may be entered into for the opening of navigation period in the spring.
Producer deliveries of Durum wheat have been relatively light in the crop year to date, and in order to encourage farmers to market additional supplies in the immediate future the board has declared an open delivery quota on this type of grain from this date until February 28, 1967.
It is hoped that this open delivery privilege will bring forth substantial supplies of Durum wheat from farms during the next twelve weeks which will permit the forward movement of these stocks from country elevators to lakehead terminals for immediate transfer to seaboard when navigation opens in the spring.
[DOT] (3:10 p.m.)
The board is of the opinion that this action is necessary at the present time, so that forward sales may be entered into in the near future to take advantage of the particular marketing opportunity which exists. If producer marketings are delayed under regular quotas some of the sales opportunities could be lost to our competitors. They are therefore asking that producers co-operate to the fullest extent to deliver available supplies of Durum wheat as quickly as possible.


That announcement was expected, because of the general situation affecting
November 28, 1966	COMMONS
Durum wheat. May I point out once again that what the minister has said covers merely a small segment of this problem. What the western farmers want to know is this: What is to be done about increasing the quotas with respect to No. 1 and No. 2 wheat, which were produced in such large quantities this year?
There are areas where wheat is all piled up, and where no movement is taking place at all. This is the situation in which the wheat board should be interested, now, in order that the western farmer shall not find himself with wheat piling up in his granary, while terminal elevators are virtually unused and quotas are set as such a low level that he is denied reasonable means of meeting the ordinary items of expenditure with which he is faced.


The announcement the minister has made is an understandable one. There is a demand for Durum wheat, and I can understand the wheat board offering every possible inducement to have that wheat delivered so as to take advantage of the export demand.
However, the problem which is facing the western farmer, and facing the government, is that we are now handling much larger quantities of wheat than ever in our history. The government always counters by saying that the quantity handled in the previous year was an all-time record, but the fact remains that we must enlarge our handling facilities in order to cope with much larger movements of grain than ever in the past.
I believe the time has come for the government to set up machinery to undertake a full study of two questions. First we should take stock of the shipping facilities available. Do the railways have enough box cars? I understand there are still large numbers of Canadian box cars in the United States. Are more box cars needed? Should there be a greater degree of co-ordination between the two railroads in the handling of grain? Second, we should consider whether or not the terminal handling facilities at the ports ought to be automated to a much greater extent. Many of the facilities we are using to export grain are out of date, compared with the modern grain handling equipment which is available in other parts of the world. If he has not done so already, I hope the minister will very soon set up the necessary machinery to enable a full study to be made of the shipping and handling of grain, because this country has to accept the fact that we must now adjust our shipping and handling facilities so as to
Statement on Marketing of Durum Wheat cope with the export of quantities of grain far in excess of anything we have been accustomed to handle in the past decade.


Mr. Speaker, just a word to tell the minister that we approve the steps he intends to take in order to promote the movement of wheat to wheat buyers who encourage us and, at the same time, bring some relief to western farmers who have wheat stocks which they do not know where to store. By taking the necessary steps so as to improve transportation, the hon. minister is certainly helping the western farmers' demand who encourage us by the importers' demand who encourage us by purchasing our wheat.
On behalf of my group, I fully agree with the steps taken by the minister in this regard.


We in this quarter of the house agree with the statement made by the minister as it relates to the limited area of Durum wheat. It is good to know that this portion of the wheat crop is in such strong demand.
At the same time I can only support the contention of previous speakers that the real trouble today is a much larger one. We trust that the government intends to do more than it has done so far to expand the facilities for the sale of wheat of other grades; otherwise we shall find ourselves in trouble.


May I refer to the first statement made by the minister? I believe he mentioned a document and asked leave to table that document. Has the minister leave to table the document in question?


Agreed.


Perhaps I should also bring to the attention of hon. members that, according to my understanding of the spirit of standing order 15 (2) (a), ministerial statements should be brief and factual and that comments on such statements should be limited to the facts outlined in the ministerial statement.
I have the impression that we have sinned against that rule on both sides of the house in connection with the first statement the minister made.

November 28. 1966
Bail Reform Act BAIL REFORM ACT


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-249 concerning reform of the bail system.


Explain.


The purpose of this bill is to reform the bail system in Canada. It would do so by amending the Criminal Code so that no person, regardless of his financial status, would be needlessly retained pending appearance to answer charges under acts of the parliament of Canada.
It is similar to the law enacted in the United States last summer which was described by President Johnson as permitting poor people awaiting trial to be released without bond at the discretion of the judge or magistrate. The provision would apply only in cases where the offence is not punishable by death or life imprisonment and where the judge deems the defendants to be trustworthy.
In addition the bill would ensure that convicted persons will received credit for time spent in custody prior to trial when computation is made of the length of any sentence imposed by the court.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
What is the estimate of the Indian affairs branch of the income of Indians for the past 5 years in (a) the Kenora Indian agency (b) the Sioux Lookout Indian agency (c) the Fort Frances Indian agency (d) for Northwestern Ontario, from (1) fishing (2) trapping (3) wild rice harvest (4) employment in (i) mining (ii) pulp and paper (iii) the tourist industry (5) welfare payments?





Agency	Year	Fishing	Trapping	Wild rice harvest	Mining	Pulp and paper	Tourist industry	Welfare	Total$	$	$	$	$	$	$	$Kenora-Agency	
1961-62	92,683	79,000	50,000	10,000	212,650	90,000	38,674.51	573,007.511962-63	110,000	73,500	35,000	10,000	218,600	80,000	32,561.57	559,601.571963-64	159,992	70,000	15,000	10,000	222,850	80,000	34,698.30	592,540.301964-65	132,325	68,500	15,000	10,000	225,900	100,000	36,230.06	587,955.061965-66	105,000	59,000	10,000	10,000	220,000	100,000	110,933.40	614,933.40Sioux Lookout-Agency	
1961-62	98,000	280,000	-	190,000	25,000	34,000	110,000	737,0001962-63	95,000	286,000	-	200,000	37,000	36,000	164,000	818,0001963-64	100,000	283,000	-	212,500	38,000	38,000	198,000	869,5001964-65	120,000	295,000	-	237,500	32,000	50,000	218,000	952,5001965-66	200,000	285,000	-	250,000	45,000	55,000	450,000	1,285,000Fort Frances-Agency	
1961-62	102,280	28,050	8,520	18,000	181,800	59,400	3,153.85	401,203.851962-63	101,640	31,350	9,510	18,840	118,800	49,000	8,975.48	338,115.481963-64	105,320	28,800	9,060	18,000	194,700	70,000	10,884.69	436.764.691964-65	105,800	28,500	8,700	19,560	175,500	60,000	24,720.09	423,380.091965-66	108,960	33,300	4,070	21,600	174,000	61,000	27,657.69	430,587.69Northwestern Ontario	
1961-62	292,963	387,050	58,520	218,000	419,450	183,400	151,828.36	1,711,211.361962-63	306,640	390,850	44,510	228,840	374,400	165,000	205,537.05	1,715,777.051963-64	365,312	381,800	24,060	240,500	455,500	188,000	243,582.99	1,898,804.991964-65	358,125	392,000	23,700	267,060	433,400	210,600	278,950.15	1,963,835.151965-66	413,960	377,300	14,070	281,600	439,000	216,000	588,591.09	2,330,521.09November 28, 1966	COMMONS DEBATES	10439
Questions
November 28, 1966
Questions
1.	How many cars have each of the Canadian car manufacturers and assemblers imported into Canada from Sweden, Germany, France, Japan, Italy, Switzerland, since the Canada-U.S. car treaty was put into effect?
2.	What was the total value of imports from each of these countries by each of the above?


1 and 2. It has been the long standing practice of my department to not disclose the private affairs of individual importers or taxpayers.


North and Victoria):
1.	Is it the intention of the Canadian National Railways to change the present handling of the local traffic of the express freight operations at North Sydney, Nova Scotia?
2.	If so, what change will take place and how soon?
3.	Will such a change mean the removal of all local express freight traffic operations from North Sydney to Sydney?


The management of Canadian National Railways advises as follows: 1, 2 and 3. A service study is presently being undertaken in this area and no decision will be reached as to the eventual handling of local express freight traffic until the study is completed some time early in the new year.


What was the daily cost of federal debt interest payments for 1965?


The average daily cost during the calendar year 1965, for interest on unmatured debt and other liabilities, was $2,881,121.30.


1.	When was the Royal Commission on Pilotage appointed?
2.	Who are the members of the commission and upon what bases are they paid as commissioners?
3.	Between what dates did the Royal Commission hold public hearings?
4.	When is it anticipated that their report will reach the government?


I am informed by the Royal Commission on Pilotage as follows: 1. November 1, 1962 by Order in Council P.C. 1962-1575.
2.	Hon. Yves Bernier, a Judge of the Superior Court of Quebec, P.Q., Chairman; Mr. Robert Knowlton Smith, Q.C., Waterloo, Ontario, Member; Mr. Harold Alexander Renwick, Vancouver, B.C., Member.
The Chairman receives a per diem living allowance of $50 while absent from his nor-may place of residence in connection with his duties with the Commission. Commissioners Smith and Renwick are paid $100 per day each for each day during which they are engaged in performing duties as Commissioners and also receive a per diem living allowance of $20 each while absent from their normal places of residence in connection with their duties as Commissioners.
3.	The Commission began to hear evidence on February 11, 1963 and continued its public sessions fairly regularly until January 15, 1965, sitting in all pilotage areas of Canada for a total of 175 days.
4.	The Commission's report will consist of five or six volumes. The Commission is hopeful of submitting to the government the first volume of its report in April or May of 1967, the remaining volumes being submitted progressively thereafter, but all, if possible, before the end of 1967.


What are the names of the members of the Senate of Canada who elected, pursuant to Section 14 of Chapter 4 of 14 Elizabeth II, not to have Part III of the said Act apply to them?


I am informed by the Hon. J. J. Connolly, Minister without Portfolio as follows: Senator O. H. Phillips is the only member of the Senate of Canada who has elected, pursuant to Section 14 of Chapter 4 of 14 Elizabeth II, not to have Part III of the said act apply to them.


What provisions are being made by Expo '67 to minimize delays for people waiting to enter pavilions?
November 28, 1966


Expo will have a computer-oriented pre-ticketing system for queue control. Visitors will be able to reserve places for shows, for any Expo, national or industrial pavilion at 12 locations throughout the site, and will know beforehand the exact waiting time for each representation.
This system will smooth out the demand, thus permitting a visitor to make better use of his time and to enjoy more of the exhibition. It will also permit more people to see the various presentations.
In addition, large electronic information display boards placed strategically throughout the site will direct visitors to areas less crowded.
Where unavoidable line ups do occur, Expo has planned mobile entertainment units which will amuse the crowds free of charge while they are waiting.


What is the estimated number of visitors to Expo '67 in 1967, and how was the estimate arrived at?


Original surveys indicated that there would be between 26 to 45 million visits to the exhibition. Design was, therefore, based on a low figure of 30 million visits. Recent studies and success with the sale of advance tickets, of which over 60 per cent are season passports, indicate that more people than originally expected will come to Expo. Expo, therefore, raised its estimate to 35 million visits.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I direct my question to the Prime Minister. It has to do with the serious situation prevailing in the community of Bell Island, in Newfoundland. It has a population of 8,000. The iron ore mine there was closed down and they are rapidly approaching a position where unemployment insurance will run out. On more than one occasion the people have been promised that the federal government would compensate them for their property, in the event that they had to move.
23033-661J
Inquiries of the Ministry
I ask the Prime Minister if he will look into the very serious situation that prevails there, of such gravity as to be of national importance, and will the government make plans to protect these Canadians from a worsening of the serious situation they suffer from today, and to which too little attention has been paid by the federal and provincial governments?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I would be very glad to look into this and report as quickly as possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, last Thursday the Minister of Labour said he was going to visit Vancouver and would report on the partial tie-up in the west coast ports arising out of the refusal of the B.C. maritime employers to bargain collectively with the foremen of the longshoremen's work crews. Has the minister had an opportunity to meet both sides and can he tell us whether or not there is some hope that a solution can be found?


Mr. Speaker, I had a series of meetings on Saturday, some six or more of them-


When?


In the morning, in the afternoon, and also in the evening. There was a slight diversion in the afternoon by mutual agreement. The longshoremen and the employers had certain interests and engagements in the early afternoon that the minister was glad to share.
But, more seriously, Mr. Speaker, at these meetings I discussed the problem which has been raised in this house on two or three occasions. I put forward as effectively as I could the views of the maritime employers association to the foremen's union. It is a union that, as has been mentioned before, has not been certified but nevertheless seems to be a local. And on the other hand I put forward their views to the employers association.
I think it is fair to say that as a result of the developments that took place in connection with the slowdown during the last three or four days of last week, the situation is possibly even more difficult and more rigid than it was before those developments took place. My report at this time to the house is not an
November 28, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry optimistic one, but both sides have been assured that my officials there are available to assist them, it they need such assistance at any time. In addition, I offered to stay over for yesterday and today if they felt that I could be of assistance. I said I had to be back here in Ottawa on Wednesday, and it was agreed that there was no point in my staying longer at this particular time.


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that my information is that there is quite a backlog of material building up at the ports, and also that the men who are working are doing so without adequate supervision and under fairly hazardous conditions, has the minister any plans to find some solution to the situation as quickly as possible before some ports come to a complete stop?


Mr. Speaker, I am very glad that this second question has been asked by the hon member. Though there are rumours to the effect that there is not adequate supervision, my information is that in some cases at least there is much greater supervision than there has been in the past; that instead of having one foreman with two or three gangs under him, in some instances a foreman now has only one gang under him. I may add that I personally interviewed at least 40 longshoremen foremen during the evening, and the situation is hardly as it has been presented by the hon. member.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the right hon. Prime Minister.
According to press reports the Minister of Manpower and Immigration (Mr. Mar-chand) is now in Paris to discuss immigration. Is the prime purpose of the minister's visit to foster French immigration to Canada?
Has the minister gone to France precisely to make recommendations on behalf of the government?


Mr. Speaker, the purpose, of course, is to encourage immigration and the minister will be reporting when he returns as to how successful he has been in achieving that purpose.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the right hon. Prime Minister. Would he comment to the house on the report that the Red Chinese foreign office has said they attach no importance at all to his statement the other day regarding the admission of Red China to the United Nations or the establishment of diplomatic relations between Canada and Red China, and can he say whether he has been in communication with the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Martin) or the Secretary General of the United Nations in regard to this problem?


Mr. Speaker, I was in communication with the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Martin) this morning. He will be in New York today and tomorrow. I hope he will be back in his seat in this house on Wednesday, and perhaps he will be able to report then.


Would the Prime Minister say which nation acts as Canada's intermediary in Peking, and has there been any communication from the representative of Canada in China regarding this offer that was made in the house?


Mr. Speaker, there has been no direct communication with Peking.


But which nation represents us?


Our diplomatic relations in a country like Communist China, where we are not represented ourselves, are in the hands of the United Kingdom embassy.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Labour. In view of a statement issued by "a spokesman for Labour Minister John R. Nicholson" which said that the city of Oshawa was being "a little unreasonable" in expecting a quick reply to its supplemental brief dealing with the economic impact of the auto pact on
November 28, 19G6	COMMONS DEBATES	10443
the city, I wish to ask the minister whether he authorized this statement to be made, whether he agrees with it, and also when the city of Oshawa can expect an answer to or an acknowledgement of its brief?


Mr. Speaker, if memory serves me right, they have had an acknowledgement of their brief, but they have not had an answer to all the points in the brief. With regard to the first part of the question, I may say the minister did not authorize such a statement. This is the first knowledge he has had of it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister of Veterans Affairs if he has an answer to my question of last Friday concerning Sunnybrook Hospital? Are veterans admitted promptly, or is there a rather substantial delay in their being admitted to that place?


Mr. Speaker, veterans entitled to treatment as of right, that is, for their pension disabilities, are admitted promptly as they have always been. With respect to non-pen-sioned disabilities there has been for some time past, and at present there still is, some delay in admitting non-emergency chronic treatment or domiciliary cases, as the accommodation for this type of patient is nearly always 100 per cent occupied. There is no change in that situation since October 1.


On the orders of the day:
Mr
Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development whether he now has a report ready with reference to the recent tragedy at Gleichen, Alberta, in which several children lost their lives and which matter was raised by the hon. member for Calgary North and myself?


Mr. Speaker, I am informed that a coroner's inquest is being held on December 14 in respect of the death of the five Indian children. I should not like to make any comment until that time.
Inquiries of the Ministry PUBLIC SERVICE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue and President of the Treasury Board. Has the minister received communications from the director of the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada protesting against certain activities of senior officers in various departments and agencies seeking to belittle the value of collective bargaining in the public service and appearing to suggest that most of the professional personnel will be excluded from the proposed bargaining units? Would the minister inform the house what reply he has made to these protests, and what action if any he has taken to end such activities, which are somewhat typical of unfriendly management activities?


Mr. Speaker, I have received such a letter and have replied to it. I should not like to comment on the exact contents of either letter until I have them in front of me. I should like to say, however, that my inquiries have indicated there was no such intimidation going on to the knowledge of the Treasury Board.


Mr. Speaker, may I preface my remarks by suggesting to the minister that the executive director of the Professional Institute-


I do not think the hon. member can, according to the rules, preface his question in any way.


Then, Mr. Speaker, let me put it this way: In view of the fact that the executive director of the Professional Institute is a very responsible person, would the minister undertake to make some further inquiries into these charges, which have not been made lightly?


As I indicated, I already have made inquiries in this regard. I am quite willing to make further inquiries, and can assure my hon. friend that it is not the policy of the government or of the Treasury Board to discourage anyone from joining any public service association; indeed we would encourage them to do so.
November 28, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry OLD AGE SECURITY


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Is the minister aware that as a result of his direction severe needs tests or means tests are being conducted by the provinces, and many individuals are now destitute before any financial assistance can be granted-


It seems to me that this question is of a very general nature and is not the type of question which should be asked at this time.


I do not see the Minister of National Health and Welfare in his place. Perhaps he is not able to survive the means test. In any event, I should like to know whether the minister has been made aware of the fact that the provinces are making their tests so severe many people are driven to perpetual destitution before any assistance can be granted. I should like to know whether the minister has been made aware of this fact?


The hon. member has made a representation, and I assume the minister will take note o