that the first report of the standing committee on privileges and elections, presented to the house on Thursday, July 7, be concurred in.


On division.


Motion agreed to, on division.
[DOT] (2:40 p.m.)
the first reading of Bill No. S-42 (from the Senate), to amend the Canadian Corporation for the 1967 World Exhibition Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether there is any basis for press reports to the effect that President Johnson, or someone on his behalf, raised strong objections to Canada signing an air agreement with the Soviet union or Soviet government. When were those representations made, and were any of them in writing?


Mr. Speaker, the Can-ada-U.S.S.R. air agreement, copies of which were tabled in the house yesterday afternoon, provides for air service between Moscow and Montreal only. It is expected that both Air
Canada and Aeroflot will fly one round trip per week between these two cities, but there is no question in the agreement of an extension to other points.
So far as I am aware the United States is not opposed to this agreement. Indeed, hon. members may recall that in 1961 the United States negotiated a somewhat similar agreement with the Soviet union, although this has not yet been brought into effect.
In any event, the agreement signed yesterday by the Canadian government is based on decisions taken by the Canadian government.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, the question I asked was whether objections had been raised by President Johnson or someone on his behalf, and it requires just a simple answer. If such did not take place then surely a negative answer would be the answer, rather than a generality.


Mr. Speaker, I have not used generalities in my response. I have given a pretty detailed reply to most of what my right hon. friend asked-


Most of it.


-but since my right hon. friend reminds that he had another aspect to his question I might as well address myself to that.
As my right hon. friend knows, it is not normal to confirm or deny whether exchanges of communications between heads of government have taken place on any particular subject. Such communications are privileged. Of course there has been an opportunity not only for the United States but for other countries to express their views, but I would repeat that the agreement signed yesterday, so far as I am concerned and so far as I know, is not opposed by the United States. I also added that in any event the decision taken was a decision taken by the government of Canada.


If there was not any
objection, wherein did the courage consist?


In replying to my
right hon. friend.


Hear, hear.
July 12, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of reports from Saigon to the effect that for several months the United States air force has been bombing targets in Laos to the extent of some 100 strikes a day, I should like to ask the minister whether he is in possession of this information; and was he ever given the information by the United States government or by the Canadian representatives on the international control commission?


Mr. Speaker, my hon.
friend will recall that some weeks ago this question was asked and I indicated that the commission had received a complaint about these alleged bombings in Laos and that the commission, which of course includes a Canadian representative, depends upon those who made the complaint to facilitate the commission's examination of the allegations. Such permission has not yet been granted.


May I ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will any representations be made either to the government of Laos or the United States government for permission to investigate these charges?


The permission in :his case in practical terms would not necessarily be given entirely by the royal government of Laos but also by those forces in Laos opposed militarily to the royal government. It is to these forces that a request by the Laos government to make an investigation must be made. The royal government of Laos does not fully control the whole territory of Laos.


I have another supplementary question. With reference to the United States airports in Laos and in Thailand from which some of this bombing is going on, has any request been made of the government controlling these areas with regard to an investigation?


There have been communications quite recently-I am not familiar with the details-addressed by the commission along the lines of those referred to by my hon. friend.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the Minister of Finance.
Can the minister advise the house whether he has received any representations to the effect that legislation should be passed in this house to lower the interest rates charged by small loans companies and whether he intends to have such new legislation passed this year?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot recall having recently received any such representations on this subject, although it is a matter of continuing interest to Canadians generally. It is my intention, as 1 said when speaking to the resolution preceding the introduction of the bill to amend the Bank Act, to convene a federal-provincial conference this year to discuss consumer credit, which of course will include interest and the revelation of true interest charges.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. The men in the highland regiments of our armed forces are delighted to know that the minister intends to retain the kilt. In view of the interest in our seagirt provinces, would the minister give a similar assurance that the uniforms now worn by the officers and men of Her Majesty's Royal Canadian Navy and reserve will not be changed in design, pattern or colour?


Order. I allowed the hon.
member's question yesterday, but I think perhaps this one should not be asked at this time. It might be placed on the order paper or discussed at ten o'clock this evening.


On a point of order; I believe the morale of our armed forces depends on many things, not the least of which is an adherence to tradition which builds esprit de corps among the men.
July 12, 1966


Order, please. I think the morale of the armed forces will hold up until this evening at ten o'clock.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the Prime Minister's answer yesterday to the member for Oxford I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has the government set up a special body of officials to advise on a course of action relating to the seating of communist China at the next session of the United Nations and, if so, will the government make its attitude known before the session begins? I think it is important that this question be asked at this particular time.


Yes.


May I ask-


Order, please. Is the hon. member rising to ask a supplementary question?


Yes, I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does the answer given by the Secretary of State for External Affairs mean yes, a body has been set up, and yes, the government will make its decision known before the session begins?


So that my hon. friend's important question will receive the treatment it deserves, when I said "yes" I meant that we are studying this and we have employed the technique for our departmental study that my hon. friend mentioned in his question.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I address a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Can the minister tell us the day or the order of business under which he will make his promised statement to the house regarding old age pensions?


Mr. Speaker, I am not
Inquiries of the Ministry exactly sure of the day, but at the moment I think the most appropriate time to make it would be on motions.


Is it still true that it will be on a day during this part of the session?


Yes.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Industry in relation to the question I asked yesterday. Has the minister anything to report to the house today in regard to the cancellation of contracts with the Canadian government or Canadian companies by the United States government? I have in my hand a quotation from a statement by the secretary of defence regarding such contracts.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps the hon. gentleman would read the quotation he has in his hand.


Order. I would prefer the hon. member not to read the quotation.


Mr. Speaker, the minister cannot get away with that sort of business.


Oh, oh.


I should like to ask-


Order, please. The hon. member has asked a question and I think the question in itself is complete. It is now up to the minister to either reply or refuse to answer.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to pose another question for the minister. Have any export permits for the sale of aerial bombs been approved by the government?


Mr. Speaker, no export permits for the sale of aerial bombs have been approved by the government of Canada.


I have a supplementary question. I should like to ask the minister whether any applications for the sale of bombs have been received by the government.


Although this is not my
responsibility as minister, to the best' of my knowledge no applications for export permits

July 12, 1966
Inquiries of the Ministry for the sale of aerial bombs have been received.


Whose responsibility is it, Mr. Speaker?


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Industry whether it is a fact that as a result of production decreases and rising costs an aircraft parts contract for Canada in the amount of $62.8 million has been lost. I refer to a contract under which De Havilland of Canada undertook to supply wing and stabilizer units for the new DC-9. Can the minister say whether in fact this contract has been lost to Canada, and whether the government has an alternative means of making up the consequent economic effects of this very large reduction?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be glad to attempt to ascertain the facts of this situation. I am not aware that a large contract of this kind has been cancelled.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question based on a statement made by the secretary of defence for the United States. He said:
-I recall one contract with a Canadian concern for bomb production which will be cancelled as a result of this cutback.


Order, please.


I wish to ask the Acting Minister of Trade and Commerce whether any applications in any form have been received by the Canadian government for the sale of aerial bombs to the United States.


The question is sufficiently urgent, Mr. Speaker, to warrant a very thorough and profound inquiry. I will have this made.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs in view of a story in this morning's paper that mainland China has apparently applied a ban on tourists. In view of the fact that a

group of Canadian high school teachers, and maybe others, are now in Hong Kong awaiting admission to China on previously obtained visas, would the minister make inquiries and take steps to get the Chinese government to agree that such groups should be admitted despite the present ban?


Order, please. I have very serious doubts that this is the type of question that can be asked during this period of our daily procedures. The hon. member has made a point and has brought a situation to the attention of the minister, and I assume that the matter will be taken into consideration, but I suggest to the hon. member that it should not be raised as a question at this time.


With great respect, Mr. Speaker, and just to make it clear, the reason for the question having been asked is that the group I referred to is now in Hong Kong awaiting admission in the next day or two, and stands to lose a very substantial sum of money which has been paid into the Bank of Peking for that purpose.


I suggest that the problem and difficulty pointed out by the hon. member cannot necessarily be solved by the question being asked at this time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Trade and Commerce, but in his absence I should like to ask the Minister of Industry whether he is aware that the three American owned flour mills in Canada, Robin Hood, Quaker and Pillsbury, have received letters from Washington forbidding them to mill Canadian wheat in Canada for sale to Cuba; and does the minister consider this action to be in keeping with the principles of good corporate citizenship expected of firms operating in Canada?


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member that this question is not so urgent that it should be asked just now.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of order. The question that was
July 12, 1966

asked by the hon. member for Winnipeg South is one of great consequence, as to whether the United States of America is asserting extraterritoriality over Canadian corporations.


Hear, hear.


They tried that when I was prime minister, and I want to And out where the courage is now on the part of this government to face this situation.


Hear, hear.


Order, please. The Chair does not deny that the matter is one of great importance from the Canadian standpoint; but I did not think, and still do not think, it is a question that can be asked at this time because it is of such a general nature. If the hon. member feels aggrieved and thinks it is very urgent the House of Commons, itself, has provided an alternative; it allows hon. members who feel they have a matter of urgency to raise to take the question up at the adjournment debate. The course is open to the hon. member for Winnipeg South to do that this very evening at ten o'clock, at which time he can ask the question and there can be an answer.
I have pointed out before, and do so again, that it is very easy for the Chair to make a mistake on this kind of question. The decision has to be made on the spur of the moment, and certainly mistakes can be made. But it is to guard against such mistakes that an escape valve has been supplied through provision for discussion later in the day. Therefore if the hon. member for Winnipeg South feels he has a matter of extreme national urgency he can discuss it in just a few hours' time in the adjournment debate.


I rise again to ask a question arising out of the question that was asked previously. I wish to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether it has come to his notice that the United States administration is today endeavouring to dictate to Canadian corporations, even though they have been capitalized by the United States.


Order, please. The right hon. Leader of the Opposition is obviously asking the same question.


No, Mr. Speaker.
Inquiries of the Ministry


The right hon. gentleman says no. I am here as the servant of the house, and if there is a general feeling that a question which has been ruled out of order as not being of extreme urgency should be recognized and answered, then certainly I am quite willing to swallow my pride and allow the question.


No, no.


As we are nearing the end of the session, Mr. Speaker, may I take the responsibility of suggesting, as this question has been asked by the right hon. gentleman as well as by other hon. members, and without in any way suggesting that Your Honour's decision is wrong, that perhaps you would want the government to clearly indicate that if there is any extra-territorial application in this matter, then of course the government will take the strongest action in the national interest.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to rise on the point of order which has been raised.


Order. There is no point of order. The question has been asked and answered. I will certainly allow supplementary questions, and I understand the hon. member for Winnipeg South wishes to ask a supplementary question now.


I was merely going to point out, Mr. Speaker, that I asked in my question whether the minister was aware of the situation. However, I respect the Chair's ruling, and I will ask for permission to debate the question at ten o'clock.


We will have our cake and eat it.


May I rise on a supplementary question and ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether it has come to the attention of the government that any of the three milling companies mentioned by the hon. member for Winnipeg South had been instructed by the U.S. government that they are not to mill flour to fill the U.S.S.R. contract?


This has not been brought to my attention. The Acting Minister of Trade and Commerce informs me he has already asked that this matter be examined, which I will also request when I leave this chamber.
Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Labour which perhaps his parliamentary secretary would be prepared to deal with in the minister's absence. I should like to ask the Minister of Labour whether he will table in the house a copy of a telegram to the longshoremen in British Columbia, on the strength of which it is reported that the longshoremen who were in jail have paid their fines and been released.


I will bring the matter to the attention of the minister, Mr. Speaker, who will be back here within an hour.


On the orders of the day:
My question is directed to the Minister of Fisheries. Since I began this session with a question on fisheries I might end it with one.
Can the minister inform the house whether there are any changes to be announced in the fishing regulations pertaining to seiners on the Bay of Fundy between the New Brunswick coast and the Nova Scotia coast? Several questions relating to this subject have been asked by myself and other hon. members during this session. The urgency of the matter lies in the fact that the house may not be sitting when the next season starts and the discrimination might continue.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, in the last few days I have signed a recommendation to the governor in council suggesting changes in the existing regulations. The closing date will be advanced from November 15 to, I believe, September 30. Furthermore, I have also amended the regulations in order to protect the weir operators on the Nova Scotia side by not allowing seiners to operate within one mile of set weirs.

July 12, 1966 EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. On July 7 I asked the Prime Minister whether he or the hon. gentleman opposite had received a resolution from the United Nations Association of Canada supporting the recommendations of U Thant made on June 20, 1966 regarding the war in Viet Nam. At that time the Prime Minister said he could not recall it but would look into the matter together with the hon. gentleman opposite and give us an answer in a few days. I wonder whether the minister is prepared to answer this question now.


I apologize for not having responded as quickly as we indicated we would. I will look into the matter right away.


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister without Portfolio, notice of which I have given to him. Can the minister indicate whether final clearance will be given for the new terminal at Brandon in time for summer construction?


I wish to thank the hon. member for having given me notice of this question. May I say in answer that discussions with officials from the city of Brandon are still continuing, and it might be a little difficult to have the terminal opened this summer.


NATO-INQUIRY AS TO CLOSING OF AIR BASES On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I try my luck with the Minister of National Defence and ask him whether he is planning to shift the Canadian air bases from France to other places in Europe, or will he reduce Canada's financial obligation by closing those bases and not reopening them elsewhere?

July 12, 1966



Hon. Paul Hellyer (Minister of National
Defence): As soon as the government's decision is made on this matter, Mr. Speaker, it will be announced in the normal way.


The minister said that several days ago. May I ask whether he has resolved his differences with the Secretary of State for External Affairs, who wants to maintain Canada's heavy expenditure in Europe although this appears to be unnecessary?


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member with respect that his question is argumentative.


May I just assure my hon. friend that-


Order, please.


There is a difference of opinion there, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. Is the minister of external affairs insisting on the retention of two extra Canadian air bases in Europe when they have to be moved from France, and does he realize that this is perhaps an unnecessary expenditure under the circumstances?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend has been reading the same article that I myself saw yesterday in the Globe and Mail. Of course my hon. friend knows that government policy is not disclosed until it has been formulated.


When will the government's policy be formulated; because the movement of these air bases has to be made very soon?


My hon. friend's question gives me an opportunity to say to the hon. member for Winnipeg South that no such resolution has been received either in the Prime Minister's office or in mine.


On the orders of the day:
wish to address my question to the Minister of Industry concerning the recent appeal for
Inquiries of the Ministry proposals from New Brunswick to the Atlantic Development Board. Will the minister refer the matter of the exclusion of Saint John and Halifax from the incentive program to the board, which action would be under the minister's jurisdiction and which has been intimated by the government for some time?


number of premises are postulated in that question with which I cannot agree.


Since the minister has lost his only two supporters in New Brunswick for his proposal, the premier of that province and the mayor of Saint John, will he act on it this summer?


Order, please.


wish to put a supplementary question to the Minister of Industry. The area development incentive program has stimulated tremendous interest in the establishment of fish processing firms in Nova Scotia which may well be essential to the full development of the potential of that industry. In view of this fact will the minister indicate whether there is any truth in the rumour that the federal government is considering the complete elimination of the incentive program?


Order, please. This question is on general policy, and cannot be asked at this time.


On the orders of the day:
My question is addressed to the Acting Prime Minister. Because of protests over the shipping provisions of the Canada-Commonwealth Caribbean conference agreement, when can we expect a debate on the protocol in this house?


I will give consideration to that matter and answer the hon. gentleman later.


On the orders of the day:	*
have a question for the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources, but in his

July 12, 1966
Inquiries of the Ministry absence perhaps the parliamentary secretary could take the question as notice. Have tenders been issued for a $5 million school-hostel complex at Cambridge Bay? If so, how does this square with the policy of having smaller school units to avoid the disruption of families, which has been causing such serious social problems in the north?


Order. This question should be placed on the order paper.


With deference, Mr. Speaker, the house is expecting to adjourn shortly, and I hardly think there would be an opportunity for a reply to a question placed on the order paper. I would appreciate it if the parliamentary secretary could take the question as notice and have a reply at a later time.


I shall be pleased to take the question as notice and bring it to the attention of the minister upon his arrival in Ottawa tonight.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration.
Is the minister now in a position to tell us whether he has considered the possibility of extending the July 25 deadline with regard to the application of the special regulations he announced on Friday, July 8?


Mr. Speaker, since yesterday I have received many representations asking me to extend the deadline set in the statement I made in the house concerning immigrant visitors. I am ready to consider the requests submitted, and within a few days I may be in a position to indicate whether we shall extend or maintain this deadline.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to ask the Minister of Industry

whether, since the federal government has sold Sunnybrook hospital to the University of Toronto for one dollar, the government will consider taking like action and selling much less valuable former national defence property in Alberni for a like amount.


Order. The question should be placed on the order paper perhaps in a more clear way.


Ten o'clock, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. Can he inform the house if he has any knowledge as to whether the report of the Spence commission is ready for publication?


really do not know; 1 shall have to make inquiries.


I wonder if the minister could tell us whether we might expect it next week.


I really do not know.


On the orders of the day:
Yesterday the hon. member for Kamloops asked me if I would reply to starred question No. 1,710, which reads as follows:
Is it the intention of the government to pay to provinces which decline to accept the federal medicare plan, the fiscal equivalent of the payments thus forgone from the federal treasury on the same basis as the arrangement generally known as "opting out" approved in negotiations with the province of Quebec in recent years?
In reply to the question I wish to state there is no provision for federal contributions to provinces which do not have medical care plans which conform to the four criteria.
In regard to the hon. member's reference to "opting out arrangements", I should note that these apply only in respect of shared cost programs where an agreement between the two governments exists. The medical care
July 12. 1966

legislation will not require agreements between the federal and provincial governments; it will simply authorize payments from the consolidated revenue fund to any province which has a medical care plan as described in the federal legislation.


Mr. Speaker, I did not quite understand the meaning of the minister's statement. If the province of Quebec should decide to set up its own medicare plan, can the minister tell whether it will be entitled at the same time to a financial compensation, as in the case of other joint programs of which it chose to opt out?


This is not contemplated in the proposal made by the federal government, which has been well known for some months.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
Can the Minister of National Health and Welfare tell us whether he intends to look also into this proposal and to see to it that a financial compensation is granted to the province as in other fields?


Mr. Speaker, there is no opting out arrangement contemplated under this proposal. It is rather a question of opting in on the part of the provinces for federal contributions toward plans which meet the four criteria.


On the orders of the day:
Right Hon. J. G. Diefenbaker (Leader of
ihe Opposiiion): I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. It arises out of the fact that many farmers on the prairies have a great deal of wheat in their granaries. Will the minister report now as to whether, between now and July 30, there will be an increase in quotas so that farm storage may be reduced to the greatest possible extent? I am sure the minister is now in a position to answer this question, because the other day he stated he had been in communication with the wheat board.
I was in communication with the chairman of
Inquiries of the Ministry the Canadian Wheat Board yesterday, Mr. Speaker, and he told me that the objective of the Canadian Wheat Board is a general quota of ten bushels per acre, which he hoped would be in force at all points. If in fact there were a few points which were not on the ten bushel quota, they would be very few indeed. It will be the policy of the Canadian Wheat Board to facilitate the movement of Canadian wheat, and whatever measures are necessary to attain that end will be followed. I say this because it may be necessary in the coming crop year to vary policies that have been followed in the past.


I want to thank the minister for that statement. In view of the fact that we are approaching the end of this portion of the session, and all western farmers naturally are most interested in this subject, can the minister give the house and the country a general idea of some of the changes that will be necessary, as he envisages the situation now, to permit the filling of the very large contracts for wheat that have been undertaken?


I doubt whether it would be possible to do this before the house adjourns. I can only repeat that the wheat board is now considering the changed situation that has arisen out of the fact that there is, for as far ahead as we can see, a very strong demand for Canadian wheat. It will be most important that wheat always be available to meet this demand, so the wheat board would not want to permit a quota system, which was introduced under very different circumstances, to interfere with the fulfilment of these contracts.
I should like to go further at this time, Mr. Speaker, but I do not think it will be possible. However, I am sure the Canadian Wheat Board, whether or not parliament is in session, will give as much information as possible to the farmers of western Canada for their guidance.


May I ask a supplementary question regarding the minister's statement that there" may be some delivery points that will not reach the ten bushel quota. Will the wheat board give any consideration to taking this into account in setting the quota for those delivery points in the next crop year, if they were not able to reach the ten bushel quota this year?


This subject is invariably considered by the board at the end of every crop
7544	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry year during which there has been any suggestion of unfairness in quotas. The decision has always been not to cause overlapping between two crop years. Therefore I have to answer the question in this way, that the wheat board would not take a shortfall in quotas in this crop year into account in fixing quotas for the coming crop year. This has never been done, and I doubt very much whether it would be done this year. However, circumstances are changing so rapidly in the demand and supply situation for wheat that I suggest to the hon. gentleman he should wait until we see what conditions are like at the opening of the crop year, when his question may be quite irrelevant.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I would ask the minister whether the wheat board would give consideration to giving those points that did not reach the ten bushel quota a higher priority for the coming year, if it is not prepared to give them compensation in the form of a higher delivery quota.


The Canadian Wheat Board of course makes the decisions in these matters and will, I am sure, take into account the views of the hon. gentleman.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. Yesterday, when I asked a question similar to that now asked, you ruled that it was hypothetical. If it was hypothetical when I asked it, should it not be hypothetical when some other member asks it?


Perhaps the question has become more urgent since yesterday.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Now that the minister has gone as far as he has, would the house be right in coming to the conclusion that the tremendous demand for wheat will mean that the quota system is going to be set aside?


I do not think I should like to go that far, Mr. Speaker. Some changes in the administration of the quota system may be required.


Order, please. The question period has now expired.

DEBATES	July 12, 1966


that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to authorize the payment of contributions by Canada toward the cost of insured medical care services incurred by provinces pursuant to provincial medical care insurance plans.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Batten in the chair.


Mr. Chairman, it is a privilege for me to sponsor this resolution and to begin debate on a program which, if approved, will enable the government of Canada to provide financial support to provincially administered medical care plans.
I would point out that this program is the fourth major step in the health insurance plan initiated some years ago by my colleague who now holds the position of Secretary of State for External Affairs. The other three are the health grants program, hospital insurance, and the establishment of the health resources fund.
In 1948, when the health grants were being discussed in this house, the then prime minister described them as being fundamental prerequisites of a nation-wide system of health insurance. The second phase, which was also piloted by my colleague now the Secretary of State for External Affairs through the legislative procedures in the spring of 1957, culminated in the hospital insurance program which provides benefits to virtually the whole population of our country. Members, of course will be familiar with the health resources fund, which was only recently approved by this parliament.
I am proud, Mr. Chairman, to be the pilot of this new measure, which will extend the benefits now available beyond the doors of the hospital, ensuring the availability of physicians' services whether these be provided in the doctor's office or in the patient's home. As hon. members know, the federal government has for some years been examining ways and means of ensuring that the opportunity for good health which is now viewed in western democracies as a right possessed by all should be available to every citizen of our country.
This effort springs not only from a deepening of our humanitarian concern for our fellow citizens, but from a realization that we
July 12, 1966

cannot afford the social and economic consequences of our failure to do so. In an industrial country such as ours we cannot afford the loss to our economy stemming from ill health.
It was these considerations, undoubtedly, which led to the appointment of the royal commission on health services, whose report has been subjected to considerable study by the government. The royal commission on health services, consisting as it did of representative professional personnel, recruited a corp of experts in many health fields and had the assistance of many of the best brains in Canada, to quote the chairman, an eminent Canadian jurist. It was the view of the royal commission on health services that there is an enormous gap between our scientific knowledge and skills on the one hand and our organizational and financial arrangements to apply them to the needs of men, on the other.
The commission described its recommendations as a method of closing this gap. One of its recommendations was partially implemented by the Health Resources Fund Act recently passed by the house. Another essential recommendation was for a comprehensive universal health services program consisting of several phases, one of which is for a universal program of medical services benefits-


Could I interrupt the minister. In view of the fact that the press has available copies of his remarks, would it not be possible for the hon. member for Simcoe East also to have a copy so he could follow the minister's speech?


Yes, Mr. Chairman, I regret that I have failed to provide copies to my hon. friends.


That is twice in one week.


Mr. Chairman, this will be accomplished through the present bill. The basic question, of course, is why do this through a nation-wide, government sponsored medical insurance system.


Where is that copy?


The answer is simple. The government of Canada believes that all Canadians should be able to obtain health services of high quality according to their need for such services and irrespective of their ability to pay. And we believe the only
Health and Welfare
practical and effective way of doing this is through a universal, prepaid, government sponsored scheme.
This same conclusion was reached by the royal commission, which spent almost three years examining Canada's health needs and seeking ways to improve and extend health services. The royal commission's recommendation for a universal, prepaid, publicly administered system was endorsed by all its members, including members of the medical, nursing and dental professions and a doctor who had been president of the Canadian Medical Association.
The commission, and the government, recognize the fundamental principle that health is not a privilege tied to the state of one's bank account, but rather a basic right which should be open to all.


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman, I wonder if it is not possible to get a copy of the paper the minister is reading from.


The press have it.


How can we listen to this long speech and comment on it afterward if we have not got the paper the minister is holding in his hand? It is ridiculous. This sort of thing has been done over and over again.


I regret that I did not make copies' available to my hon. friends. It was an oversight, and my parliamentary secretary is seeking to obtain copies. Frankly, I do not know how the hon. gentleman can profit more from reading the speech than from listening.


Is there not any remedy for those who cannot do either?


What about the rule against the reading of speeches?


Mr. Chairman, I think we recognize, too, that while an individual's health is a highly personal affair in many respects, his or her good health is of direct benefit to the wider community.
[DOT] (3:30 p.m.)
These are the fundamental points which I believe every Canadian can and does support. The question is how best we can assure that this goal is met. The federal government's proposal, as hon. members know, is to offer the provinces a sizeable sum of money to support provincial medical care insurance programs which meet certain established standards.

July 12, 1966
Health and Welfare
We have taken this approach because we recognized that under our constitution health is a provincial responsibility and, because of this, federal initiative in this field is limited to encouraging provincial action. This is an important point, but one which I am afraid has been lost sight of in some of the debates on this subject.
It would be much simpler and, to some, more attractive to shunt these considerations aside and promise broad and direct federal action in this field. But in practice this would amount to little more than an exercise in futility, for it would mean making federal promises that are not within the federal power to keep.
It may be a matter of interest to members to note the manner in which changing times and conditions are reflected in the varying methods by which federal assistance has been made to provincial programs in the unfolding of our health insurance plan. When the health grants were introduced in 1948, many provincial governments were financially hard-pressed and because of this condition, but at the same time respecting the constitutional position, the federal government set up a series of health grants only some of which required the matching of the funds by a province. Thus, for many years in certain areas, the federal government has been providing through some of the health grants payments in full for projects designed and administered by the provincial governments.
By the time the hospital insurance program was introduced, federal sharing had become the usual means through which the government of Canada made contributions toward programs which clearly fell within provincial jurisdiction. Thus, the hospital insurance program became a conditional grants program under which the federal government began providing very considerable sums of money, but only with respect to shareable items of expenditure approved by the provincial governments.
The present phase of health insurance comes at a time when the conditional grants technique is undergoing some rethinking. Hence, it would not be in conformity with this policy to bring in a measure designed along the lines of existing conditional grant programs.


On a point of order. I wonder whether the minister would send his parliamentary secretary to the press gallery to see whether there is an extra copy of his speech available. Every member of the press gallery
[Mr. MacEachen.l
has a copy and I am sure there must be an extra copy left over. As a courtesy, could not one be given to the opposition critic, who still has no copy?


It is a matter of courtesy. We shall read it; you make the speech. Is that a deal?


There is no valid point of order.


Modern methods include
courtesy.


I have said twice that whatever copies are available will be made available to hon. members. In the meantime, if hon. gentlemen opposite will bear with me I will seek to place copies at their disposal. I do not think there is any point in making an issue of this matter. Maybe I have a copy here for the hon. member. Here is one.


On the point of order, I have
just received one from the press. Thank you very much.


That was well staged.


Well staged? We asked five or
six times before you did anything.


The resolution under consideration does not envisage a plan designed along the lines of existing grant programs but employs another avenue through which federal support will be provided. I shall discuss this further later in my remarks.
I have mentioned that there is no question at this time as to the role allocated to the provinces under our constitution in the health field. This role is a predominant one, and provincial governments individually will devise programs, as some have in fact already done, which undoubtedly will differ from province to province, as existing programs already do.
At the same time not all of the provinces have the same fiscal capability of providing such programs or of meeting the costs of programs designed for all residents. Thus, although Canada is one country a Canadian resident of one province may be at a distinct disadvantage when compared with a Canadian resident of another province.
Of even greater national concern is the disadvantage which may be suffered by a Canadian who, having resided in one province, moves to another province only to find that his position is the same as it might have
July 12, 1966

been had he moved to a point beyond his own national boundaries. Clearly these are considerations which give rise to certain federal responsibilities in the health and welfare fields.
Thus while it is the policy of this government to redefine its role in so far as conditional grant programs are concerned, it may not abrogate its obligation to ensure the national character of our country by establishing an acceptable level of services available to all citizens. It is proposed, therefore, that with the full co-operation of the provinces the federal government will support medical care programs which meet the four basic principles which the government of Canada believes will serve the national interest.
The first of these principles involves the scope of benefits which it is considered should be made available as a minimum, regardless of any other benefits a province may wish to include as well. It is considered that the medical care program should offer all of the services provided by physicians.
This would mean that the services of general practitioners and specialists would be insured services, regardless of where these services were made available. Whether the insured person is seen by the physician in the doctor's office, in the hospital, in a nursing home, or in a private home belonging to the insured person or to anyone else, the benefits of the medical care plan should be available.
Provincial governments, may of course, wish to expand the provincial programs so as to include additional benefits; there is nothing in the federal plan to deter them from doing so. We have assured the provincial governments that as soon as there is a consensus on the timing of further benefits to be provided over and above physicians' services, the federal government would consider enlarging appropriately and in due course the scope of benefits to which it would be prepared to contribute. As a first phase, however, the present resolution contemplates only the provision of physicians' services.
The second principle which is considered to be essential if the federal government is to make substantial financial contributions is that of coverage. In discussions with the provinces the matter of universal coverage, which we feel to be essential, has been examined carefully and closely. We have explained to the provinces that the principle of universal coverage should not be confused with compulsory coverage.
Health and Welfare
It is a fact that if a province chooses to finance its share of the costs by levying a premium, then and only then would the question of compulsion arise. It would be the decision of a province whether premiums would be compulsory in the sense that taxes are compulsory. Certainly this measure does not contemplate compulsion on individual doctors to join a plan; nor would there be any compulsion on individual persons to use the services provided under the plan.
I do not wish to appear to be splitting hairs, but it would seem to me that certain adverse comments which have been made on the question of compulsion give the impression that doctors would be required to treat patients they do not wish to treat and that individuals would be required to accept benefits under a program which they did not wish to accept. At the risk of repeating myself on this point, I should like categorically to state that neither of these two circumstances would be involved in the principle of universal coverage in the context of medical care.
[DOT] (3:40 p.m.)
Members might be interested in an assessment of the experience which has been gained in this regard under the various provincial hospital insurance plans. It will be recalled that under that program insured services were also required to be made available on equal terms and conditions to all residents. Universal coverage was automatically achieved in those provinces which chose to finance their share of the costs out of the general revenues of the province, or by means of a sales tax, or by a combination of these methods with or without an authorized charge for which provision was made in the legislation.
In these provinces persons who are residents become entitled to services by virtue of such status. Universality if achieved without compulsion of any sort except the compulsion to pay provincial taxes, which we all must pay.
However, when the hospital insurance program began five provinces chose to finance their share of costs by means of a premium. This entailed the registration of individuals and the payment of the premium fixed by provincial legislation. Within a relatively short time two of these provinces abandoned the premium system of financing and achieved universal coverage automatically by adopting a non-premium system. Of the remaining three provinces which still use the

July 12, 1966
Health and Welfare
premium system, only two have made it compulsory under provincial law tor all residents to be covered-


What are those two provinces?


I believe they are British Columbia and Alberta, and the third province would be Ontario. I am speaking according to memory. The third province has maintained an element of voluntary enrolment. Nevertheless, the extent of coverage under hospital insurance at the present time in all provinces, including the province with a partial voluntary element, is now over 99 per cent of the eligible population.
I have explained this situation in some detail because I am anxious to illustrate my initial point, that universal coverage does not necessarily mean compulsory coverage.
In my discussions with the provinces as to what percentage of coverage the federal government will be prepared to view as universal, if a premium system of financing were adopted, I have agreed that for the initial period coverage of 90 per cent would be acceptable. It would be expected, of course, that this would rise to 95 per cent over a period of time.
Hon. members may ask why the federal government considers the principle of universal coverage to be so important. I believe that if the considerable expenditures which will have to be made to provincial programs are to be justified, then the federal government must have the assurance that as many people as possible will benefit. That is the case for the federal parliament. From the national point of view it is also essential to ensure that there is no differentiation in coverage between the residents of one province and another if federal funds are to be provided.
Before I leave the question of universal coverage I should like to draw the attention of hon. members to the report of the Royal Commission on Health Services and to studies made for that commission. All 