That the members of the House of Commons on the joint committee of the Senate and the House of Commons to introduce a measure to provide for the establishment of a system of collective bargaining, approved April 25, 1966, be Messrs. Aiken, Ballard, Bell (Carleton), Caron, Chatterton, Crossman, Emard, Faulkner, Hymmen, Isabelle, Keays, Knowles, Lachance, Leboe, Lewis, MacRae, McCleave, Munro, Orange, Ricard, Richard, Rinfret, Tardiff and Walker: and that a message be sent to the Senate to acquaint Their Honours thereof.


Motion agreed to.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Labour and ask whether he has anything further to report on the longshoremen's strike. What hopes are there for a settlement of this prolonged strike which has now lasted for some four weeks, and does the situation look hopeful at the moment?


All I can say, Mr. Speaker, is that the mediator is meeting with the parties today. He met with some representatives of the longshoremen this morning and I understand there is a further meeting this afternoon. I am anxiously awaiting the outcome of that meeting.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the situation that has been prolonged to this extent, does the government not wish to change its position in endeavouring to bring about a settlement of this dispute?


I think I have announced the government's position more than once in the house. We sincerely believe that every
effort should be made to settle this dispute by the collective bargaining process. It is still our hope that this will come about. That is all I can say at this time.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does not the minister believe that his attendance at the negotiation table would also be a form of collective bargaining, and would probably bring about better results than have been achieved heretofore?


Order, please. The question is argumentative.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the statement of the Minister of Labour I would like to now put a question to the Minister of Finance. What effect has this long strike had on the fulfilment of the wheat contracts that were made by the wheat board with other nations?


Mr. Speaker, this strike is having a very serious effect.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. When the minister says "a very serious effect" does he mean that sales will be lost in respect of wheat agreements made between the wheat board and those countries purchasing our grain?


I do not know whether this in fact will happen. I do not think it need happen. All I can say is that this strike is having a very serious effect upon the delivery of grain that the wheat board has already sold, and it is beginning to back up the movement into the country, making it more difficult for the wheat board to equalize its quotas.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I would ask the Minister of Labour in view of the decision of the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Workers to strike later this month, an action that would tie up the seaway from Montreal to Sault Ste. Marie, whether the government is taking any initiative to deal with this threatened strike before it actually takes place.

June 7, 1966
Inquiries of the Ministry


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question.


Mr. Speaker, the question I want to ask-


Order, please. The hon. member for Provencher has the floor.


I wish to ask the Prime Minister whether he is aware of the statement made this morning by the chairman of the Canadian Wheat Board, that every day the strike is prolonged will do irreparable harm to Canada's ability to market grain in the future.


I have a further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.


The hon. member for Bur-naby-Coquitlam has the floor.


If the question of the hon. member for Red Deer was supplementary, then mine is also a supplementary question. I wish to ask the Minister of Labour what action the government will take in view of the fact that the workers on the St. Lawrence seaway have taken a strike vote and set a deadline of June 17. Is the minister planning any steps to bring the two parties together in the hope of effecting a satisfactory settlement?


Mr. Speaker, my colleague the Minister of Transport and I have given the matter some thought. We will be meeting again later today to discuss it. I have nothing further to say at this time.


I have another supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister able to announce to the house that he will be appointing a mediator to look into this question? If so, how soon does he expect such a mediator to be appointed, in view of the fact that only 10 days are left before the strike deadline?


I would rather not make any statement before concluding my discussions with my colleague.


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary and I wish to direct it to the Minister of Finance. Has the minister received any inquiries from our regular wheat customers indicating concern over the strike, and is he preparing a statement that special

efforts will be made in order to meet our commitments to deliver grain to these countries?


Mr. Speaker, the government is making every possible effort to settle this strike. I do not think it is necessary for me to make any representations in this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a further supplementary question directed to the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister tell us whether his government anticipates bringing in legislation to end the strike on the St. Lawrence seaway, in view of its prolonged duration and in view of the statement made by the Minister of Finance?


Mr. Speaker, we hope this strike will be ended shortly by the process of free collective bargaining.


Hear, hear.


I should like to address a question to the Prime Minister and ask him whether the government is considering taking action on one or more current labour disputes in the transportation field similar to that taken by Right Hon. Louis St. Laurent in 1950, when he dealt with the very serious labour dispute then involving vital transportation.


Mr. Speaker, there is one dispute that has been discussed, and it is being dealt with. That is the only one which at the moment has the serious implications my hon. friend refers to. I do not think I can add anything in that regard to what has been said.


I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Have any negotiations for any possible future wheat sales been postponed or cancelled as a result of the current dock strike?


Not to my knowledge, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Labour in connection with the longshoremen's strike. Has the government prepared draft legislation in the event that the government decides to intervene, and has the government reached a decision as to the conditions precedent to the introduction of such legislation?
June 7, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry


Order. I suggest the hon. the house that the federal-provincial confer-member's question is hypothetical and should ence scheduled for Victoria will go on as not be asked at this time.	scheduled?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Labour. Due to the waterfront strike in Montreal some of the garment manufacturers in my riding are down to one week's supply of fabrics. Several have written me asking if there was any hope of this strike being settled and if the government intended to take any action to bring about a settlement. Could the minister give me any advice on that?


Order. It seems to me that the statement made at the beginning of the proceedings this afternoon answered the question of the hon. member.


As a supplementary question, I am informed by these garment manufacturers that employees will be laid off within a week or ten days.


Order, please. This is not a supplementary question; it is a supplementary statement.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I put a question to the Prime Minister?
Is the right hon. gentleman in a position to tell us which government will be authorized to represent the province of Quebec at the next federal-provincial conference which is to be held next week?


Order. This question is the concern of the provincial authorities.


Mr. Speaker, I shall put my question so that it may be the concern of the federal authorities.
Can the Prime Minister give us the assurance that the federal government will not accept any provincial government which is not truly representative of a province at the forthcoming federal-provincial conference?


May I ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the Prime Minister now assure


Mr. Speaker, last evening I telephoned the premier of British Columbia about certain developments which had a bearing on the proposed conference which was to have opened in Victoria on June 16, developments which concerned three provinces. It was agreed by the host premier, Mr. Bennett, and myself that because of the developments I have just mentioned, a postponement of the conference was unavoidable. I then sent telegrams to the various heads of provincial governments and asked if they-


Which ones?


-the heads of various provincial governments-and asked if they agreed with the suggestion made by Mr. Bennett and myself that the conference should be postponed, perhaps until a date in the autumn. They have all replied that they agree to the postponement. They have agreed also to the suggestion that the conference, when it is held, will be a normal, business conference and not part business and part ceremonial as the one would have been next week. It will be held in Ottawa. One or two of the premiers hoped that the postponement would not be long and that perhaps we could have a conference before the autumn.


In the case of the province of Quebec, will the Prime Minister indicate with whom he communicated?


Yes, Mr. Speaker; I communicated with the Prime Minister of the province of Quebec.


A further supplementary question. Will the Prime Minister indicate whether it was the elected Prime Minister of Quebec or the late one?


Mr. Speaker, may I put a
supplementary question?
Will the Prime Minister tell us with whom he intends to communicate in Quebec concerning the forthcoming federal-provincial conference?


He just said it.

June 7, 1966
Inquiries of the Ministry


May I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the postponement of the federal-provincial meeting which was to be held on June 16, and in view of the fact many students, if they are to commence their academic year in September, will need to know about scholarships and bursaries, is there any likelihood of the Prime Minister communicating with the provincial premiers and arranging to have legislation introduced this summer?


We will be giving consideration to this matter in the light of the postponement of the conference. I appreciate the factors mentioned by my hon. friend. I point out, however, that in so far as assistance to universities is concerned, which would have been the main subject of the conference, that has already been provided for 1966-67.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question.
Is it the intention of the Prime Minister to include on the agenda of the forthcoming federal-provincial conference the request of the new premier of Quebec that 100 per cent of direct taxes be returned to the province?


Order. I suggest that the hon. member put his question on the order paper.


I
should like to address a question to the Prime Minister arising from information he gave to the house early today about the cancellation of the federal-provincial conference at Victoria, and his reference to certain ceremonial aspects of that conference. Has the federal government given consideration to any alternative means of recognizing the fact that Vancouver Island has had a constitutional link with the mainland of what is now Canada for 100 years?


Mr. Speaker, it was Mr. Bennett's suggestion, in which I concurred, that if the meeting were to be put off for some time-some weeks, as seems inevitable- it should be a conference devoted not only to education but to other matters; that it would take somewhat longer than the one proposed for next week and therefore should be held in Ottawa and not considered in any way

connected with the important ceremonial occasion to which my hon. friend has referred. We also considered the importance of recognizing that important occasion in some other way.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, since we have just been dealing with provincial matters perhaps I could ask the Secretary of State whether her office is aware of a communique put out by the centennial committee which advises that 70 foreign and 41 Canadian students are involved in three tours which will end in mid June. If so, I should like to ask the hon. lady why it is apparently not considered that those students should visit the province of British Columbia, the most beautiful and certainly the most politically interesting of all the provinces of Canada.


Order, please. The question should be placed on the order paper.


It is a matter of urgency, Mr. Speaker, because this tour is concluding in mid June. If action is not taken now these students will be deprived of a great advantage. I would ask the hon. lady's seatmate if he would use his charm and influence in connection with this matter.


The minister has noted the representations of the hon. gentleman, I as-isume.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the fact that the survey made by A. D. Margison and Associates has now been made public, is the Minister of Transport in a position to report when a second ferry may be put into service between western Nova Scotia and the United States?


No, sir; but perhaps I might be permitted to say that I have some copies of the study to which the hon. gentleman adverted. Though the study was prepared primarily for the government of Nova Scotia, if any hon. member would be particularly interested in having a copy I would be very glad to make one available.
June 7, 1966


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Has the government received an invitation to attend a conference on copper being held by the United Nations? If so, does the government intend to attend the conference?


Mr. Speaker, I have seen reference in the press to the fact that the United Nations might be calling a conference on copper. I know nothing more than that, and we have not received an invitation.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Is the minister in a position to indicate when we might expect legislation to be introduced which would propose amendments to the Atlantic Development Board Act to increase the amount of money available to that board?


I hope, sir, very soon.


A supplementary question. Could the minister indicate whether he expects to bring this legislation forward before any proposals which are presently before the board have to be deferred because of the lack of funds of the board at the present time?


Mr. Speaker, it largely depends on the co-operation of the hon. gentleman and his friends, and I am sure that will be forthcoming.


It certainly was yesterday.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question also for the Minister of Transport but not quite along the same lines. I wonder whether he might be able to clarify for the house, and particularly for the people
Inquiries of the Ministry of Nova Scotia, the reasoning behind the diversion of 150 international flights from the Halifax international airport to other airports owing to the alleged lack of adequate facilities.


Mr. Speaker, I would first have to clarify myself-


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the unfair competition suffered by Canadian manufacturers of colour television, would the minister consider removing the 11 per cent sales tax and the 15 per cent excise tax?


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue. In view of protests made by the Civil Service Federation of Canada, can the minister make a statement concerning the salary adjustments of group B civil servants, which were to be made retroactive to October 1 of last year?


Mr. Speaker, I have received a letter from the chairman of the national joint council of the civil service associations objecting to the holding up of some salary revisions in group B with respect to people who are being reclassified. Although I have just received this letter, which appeared on my desk this morning, the matter is under review and will be replied to in the very near future.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister give the assurance that these people will not lose their salary adjustments because of the structural changes which are in prospect?


Mr. Speaker, I have learned better than to give assurances to my hon. friend from Winnipeg North Centre.

June 7, 1966
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I may put a delayed supplementary question to the Minister of National Revenue. I appreciate his timidity about giving me certain assurances, and I think I know why, but could he give assurances to the group B civil servants concerned that they will not lose out so far as their pay increases are concerned because of organizational changes that are in prospect?


Order, please. The question is of a very general nature, and I do not think it should be asked at this time.


Mr. Speaker, I suggest it is a specific question related to a protest that the minister received today.


The hon. member for Peace River.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue. Would the minister say if he is in a position to answer the question I sent him earlier today with regard to civil service negotiations?


Mr. Speaker, 1 would like to indicate to the hon. member that the representations made by the national joint council will be given every possible consideration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Postmaster General. I wonder whether the minister could tell the house just what is the state of the strike in Windsor which was brought about yesterday by workers belonging to the Canadian Union of Postal Workers?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of any strike in Windsor. I am sure if it had been anything very serious I would have been notified.
T Later:]
Mr. Speaker, in reply to the question by the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Thompson) about stoppage of work in the Windsor post office, I would just like to say I am advised that there was really no walkout or strike in Windsor.
[Mr. Benson.)


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Would the minister indicate when the government proposes to carry out the policy statement which he made with respect to the $25 million in aid?


Order, please. The question the hon. member has posed is not too clear. Perhaps he might elucidate it somewhat.


Mr. Speaker, apparently it is not that the question is not clear, but that the minister is holding a book and is not paying any attention to the question. I wonder, sir, if you would call to the attention of the Minister of National Health and Welfare the fact that I am trying to address a question to him.


Order, please. The hon. member for Northumberland.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of National Health and Welfare apparently is not hearing too well.


Order, please. The Chair has recognized the hon. member for Northumberland.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, the rules of the house oblige me to listen to the hon. member. Surely they do not oblige me to look at him.


Oh, oh.


On a
point of order, Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. Is the hon. member rising on a point of order?


Yes. On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, I realize that the minister is not compelled to answer any question put to him. I should like to ask, sir, in view of the fact that you ruled my question was not properly put, whether you would not now rule on the answer given by the Minister of National Health and Welfare.


Order, please. The Chair
recognizes the hon. member for Northumberland.
June 7. 1966


I have a question for the Prime Minister. I would ask him whether the government intends to act on the policy announced by the former minister of labour with respect to the $25 million grant to the Nova Scotia coal industry.


The position of the government on this matter has been made clear.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. Since the Prime Minister has indicated the government's position on the $25 million for the Nova Scotia coal industry; and since the Minister of Transport along with the Minister of National Health and Welfare have made it clear that there is no change of policy in that respect, when will the $25 million be available?


Mr. Speaker, in all these matters government policy is announced in due course when decisions are made.


Is not
the minister aware that this policy announcement was made last October and they are still waiting?


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
I
should like to direct a question, Mr. Speaker, to the Minister of Transport. In view of the report in this morning's press that a strike by the Canadian Brotherhood of Railway, Transport and General Workers against the Canadian National is inevitable later this month, can the minister make any comment?


The only comment I care to make, sir, is that I hope the report is wrong.


My question is for the Minister of Transport. Has he or his department received notification from the C.B.R.T. that they intend to take strike action against the Canadian National Railways? If so, what course has the hon. gentleman decided to follow?
Inquiries of the Ministry


To the best of my knowledge the answer to the first part of the question is no, and the answer to the second part would follow from the answer to the first. But I will make inquiries.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to. the Minister of National Defence, to save him from complete oblivion. Will the ministers of national defence of the NATO countries be meeting soon to co-ordinate the changes in military matters that are indicated by the present conference of foreign ministers?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. There is a meeting planned for late July.


I have a related question, Mr. Speaker. It is close to a supplementary question, and it is addressed to the Minister of National Defence. I have not given him notice, but I am sure he has the information at his fingertips. Is it proposed to integrate the Canadian bases at Metz, and Marville from which Canada is to withdraw shortly with the bases in Germany, as. reported from Brussels today?


I indicated to the house earlier that no decision has yet been taken by the government as to what the forces' structure will be in the years ahead and, particularly, what the disposition will be of the headquarters at Metz and the squadrons at Marville.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare; he does not have to turn round in order to see me. It arises out of the wide ranging statement on hockey made the other night. Would the minister refer to the committee making this inquiry Bill No. C-132, which would bring the National Hockey League within the provisions of the Combines Investigations Act? Would he specifically refer this measure to the committee for a decision as to whether the hockey league-
June 7, 1966

Inquiries of the Ministry


Order. This question is not urgent, and should be placed on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare and ask whether the study of hockey, announced by him several days ago, will take into consideration the position of youngsters who, if they wish to play hockey, at the age of 13 or 14 have to sign forms which in effect tie them down to one hockey team.


Order. The question is argumentative, is not urgent, and should be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. I should like to preface it by saying I hope those westerners haven't got him yet. Is it the intention of the government to pay a deficiency payment to dairy farmers based on 1965 production, as was done in 1965?


The westerners are still after me but they haven't caught me yet.
With respect to the deficiency payment, the hon. member may have seen the announcement to the effect that since the national weighted average for milk during the past year is more than $3.50 there will be no deficiency payment payable in the current year.


In view of the fact that the returns to the cream producers fall far short of the $4 per hundred-we'ght guaranteed by the government, is it the intention of the government to assist the family farms by amending the dairy policy so that cream producers will realize the $4 per hundredweight they were promised?


The policy was announced and explained in detail, and I think it speaks for itself. It will certainly provide for a $4 average for manufacturing milk, the highest, I believe, for manufacturing milk in Canadian history. I believe that when we came into office the national average price was $2.80.


Hear, hear.

Mr. W H. A. Thomas (Middlesex West):
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture supplementary to that posed by the hon. member for Wellington-Huron in connection with the plight of cream producers in Canada. Would the minister be willing to have the prices now being received by cream producers reviewed for the purpose of seeing whether these people are in fact receiving an equitable deal under the dairy support program?


Mr. Speaker, we have the prices and the situation under constant review, and if additional action is necessary it will, of course, be announced in the house in the proper fashion.


On the orders of the day:
My question is one of extreme urgency and considerable national importance. I ask the Prime Minister whether he can give us any idea when the representation of Prince Edward Island in the Senate will be brought up to full strength.


Order. I doubt that the question is so urgent that it ought not to be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
My question is for the Minister of Transport. In view of the minister's statement yesterday in Montreal, how soon can this house expect a national transportation policy?


A national transportation policy is evolving from day to day.


From speech to speech.


I hope the house will be able to deal with certain aspects of it in the autumn.


Is the evolution as complicated as the minister's speech in Newfoundland the other night?
June 7, 1966


No, just as simple and just as clear.


Hear, hear.


My
question is related to the answer just given by the Minister of Transport. It is directed to the Prime Minister. Did the Prime Minister really clear the speech which the Minister of Transport delivered in Newfoundland on Saturday?


Order, please. This question is out of order.


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. Was the minister announcing government policy in Winnipeg last Saturday when he indicated that the roads to resources program would be scrapped in favour of a national roads policy, with Ottawa doing the planning?


The question is not acceptable in that form. My understanding of the rules is that an hon. member may not ask whether a statement represents government policy.


Then may I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is the government contemplating replacing the roads to resources program by a national roads policy, with Ottawa doing the planning?


I would have to take that question as notice and consult with the minister concerned.


On the orders of the day:
wish to ask a question of definite national importance, which concerns every member of this house. In view of a press release issued today by a distinguished official of this house concerning security measures on the premises of parliament, and in view of the duties presently performed by the protective staff and the fact that they are practically under military discipline without much right of appeal, can the Solicitor General tell us
Inquiries of the Ministry whether consideration is being given to making members of the protective staff peace officers of the crown?


believe this is a question which should be directed to the Chair, not to the Solicitor General.


According to the rules the hon. member may wish to write to the Speaker about the matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Solicitor General.
In view of the fact that a large number of French speaking citizens visit Parliament Hill during the tourist season, would the Solicitor General see to it that R.C.M.P. officers on duty on Parliament Hill can speak both languages?


I am sure the Solicitor
General has taken note of the hon. member's suggestion.


Are you sure of that, Mr. Speaker?


On the orders of the day:
My question is directed to the Minister of National Defence. In view of the lay-off of 600 skilled men at the shipyard in Saint John and the possible loss of these men to the industry, can the minister give us any up to date information about when we shall finally see the beginning of the revised destroyer escort program?


I would be pleased to take this question as notice and refer it to the Minister of Industry.


Will the minister make a report to the house on the present position of these recommendations in which he has been involved, bearing in mind the lay-offs which are presently taking place in the depressed shipyards of Canada.

June 7, 1966
Customs Tariff


I think this is really a subject for discussion when the estimates of the department are under consideration.


Can the
minister say when he expects contracts to be awarded for two supply ships in respect of which tenders have already been called?


Fairly soon, I think; but the question is one which might be placed on the order paper.


Ten o'clock for this, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Would the minister indicate when there may be a decision on the request of the Charolais Cattle Breeders' Association of Canada for permission to export these animals to countries abroad?


Order. I gather that the same question was asked a few days ago, and is listed for consideration in the adjournment debate at an early date.


Mr. Speaker, I realize that probably I did not put my question properly, but with your forbearance I would again like to ask the minister, because time is very short, if there will soon be a decision on this matter of the Charolais cattle. Time is running out, and all I am asking is whether there will be a decision.


Order. I would like to remind the hon. member that the same question was asked a few days ago and a decision was taken that the matter would be discussed in an adjournment debate, which might be tonight.


The house in committee of ways and means, Mr. Batten in the chair.
1. That schedule A to the Customs Tariff he amended by striking out tariff items 945-1, 7905-1, 20925-1, 21045-1, 23505-1, 23705-1, 24100-1, 26325-1, 41105-1, 42205-1, 44043-1, 44047-1, 44125-1, 70500-1, 70505-1 and 84805-1, and the enumerations of goods and the rates of duty set opposite each of those items, and by inserting therein the following items, enumerations of goods and rates of duty:
Mr. Chairman, unless my memory tricks me this resolution was called on April 22 and there has been no subsequent discussion of it. At least Votes and Proceedings would indicate that was the last time it was called, and since the budget debate there has been no discussion on the amendments to the Customs Tariff. I would have thought the minister would have an explanatory statement to make, but due to the haste of his colleagues to carry the items I have to protect the interests of the house.
If the minister is prepared to make an explanatory statement which may obviate some of the questions that I and other members are prepared to put to him, then I am quite prepared to cede the floor to the minister and resume my comments after he has made that statement.


Mr. Chairman, I should say that I propose first to call the resolutions on the Customs Tariff, then on the Excise Tax, and then on the Income Tax.
So far as the Customs Tariff changes are concerned, I would like to refer back to my budget speech when I mentioned that with the Kennedy round of tariff negotiations taking place in Geneva I was proposing few changes in the Customs Tariff this year.
[DOT] (3:20 p.m.)
It might help the members of the committee if I were to make some very general remarks about them.
There are four resolutions relating to the Customs Tariff. The first and second resolutions provide for amendments to schedules A and B of the Customs Tariff and contain 18 tariff items. Some of the items are new and for some the coverage is being broadened, while others are merely being continued without change for a further period. The third resolution provides for a technical amendment to an item in schedule C of the Customs Tariff, and schedule C lists the goods which are prohibited entry. The fourth resolution deals with the coming into force of the three previous resolutions.
That is all I have to say by way of general comment on the structure of the changes that are being proposed and perhaps at this point I should sit down and respond to questions.


Mr. Chairman, when we are dealing with Customs Tariff resolutions of the type we have before us they seem to receive relatively little attention from the house and the communications media. I do not understand why it is that there is great attention
June 7. 1966

paid by commentators and writers of editorials to budgets. There is always a great buildup before the delivery of a budget and a great amount of coverage given immediately following its delivery, but when we come to studying the items contained in detail in the budget, members of the communications media all leave and we see very little if anything written about that study. If one wants to clear this house of people involved in the field of communications one need only speak about budget resolutions and the bills that follow those resolutions. Yet everyone is affected by them.
For many years I have worked on budgets on both sides of this house; yet when I spoke it seemed as though I were almost conducting a monologue, along with a few others including the Minister of Finance. This is an astounding fact when we consider that under the Customs Tariff Act the government receives 9 per cent of its revenue, which is not inconsiderable in relation to attempted raids by provincial governments on the general revenues of the government of Canada. During a recent political campaign certain people asserted that matters coming under the Customs Tariff should be the subject of a dialogue between the government of Canada and the governments of the provinces. In fact, some went so far as to say that trade, and I presume that included matters associated with trade such as customs tariffs, should be the prerogative of the provinces. Of course, I have never heard such utter nonsense in my life.
This country was founded on a constitution which set forth that there should be no obstruction to trade by the provinces. If provinces got their hands on customs tariffs or the deliberations as to customs tariffs or matters of trade we would see the greatest chauvinistic policies ever followed. If ever there was a move to balkanize Canada it would come as the result of moves toward changing jurisdiction in respect of acts such as the Customs Tariff Act.
Let us look at what the minister has proposed in respect of customs tariffs. This year the minister was wise enough to say that he did not propose to do very much in light of negotiations under the Kennedy round. I suggest that the minister proposes to do nothing because nothing happened under the Kennedy round. As a matter of fact, the progress made under that round of talks prior to the delivery of the minister's budget speech was almost nil. In fact, progress, if anything, was retrograde.
Customs Tariff
When we look at the items contained in the budget, other than those which deal with the automobile agreement which are tied in with sales tax on machinery for the purpose of auto parts manufacturing, we find there is precious little in the over-all that really affects Canada's customs tariff. Let us look at the items in relation to Canada's economy. What does "Feeds for use exclusively in the feeding of trout, on and after July 1, 1968" mean? There is also a reference to July 1, 1966, but what does this actually mean in terms of the economy?
Although the next item may be of interest to the individuals who are concerned, what will the change in "carnation cuttings in their first year of introduction" mean in terms of our economy? There is another item which I suppose will have some effect on small people. It relates to liquorice blocks, granules, paste or powder, not sweetened. What will that mean in terms of the economy?
Then we go from the sublime to the ridiculous in terms of these tariff items. Without casting any reflection on any business that may be connected with this item, move from liquorice blocks to captive balloons having a volume of 150,000 cubic feet or more which are to be used in the logging industry. The members of this house will require some education in this field because I am sure very few here know what this type of equipment is or how it is used. Are these balloons hung onto a mountainside from which a boom is suspended hauling logs out of inaccessible areas? In any event, I am sure that this change will not cost the crown a great deal of money because the use of captive balloons in this industry must be somewhat restricted.
The items also include a number of chemicals and minerals that are again of a kind which are used to a lesser degree than others. There is reference also to guns and rifles of a class or kind not made in Canada, parts thereof. Then there is an item for "oriental rugs or carpets with pile hooked or knotted by hand". This may have some appeal to those with aesthetic tastes, and the minister may want to point out the particular trade agreement under which the tariff reduction on this item was decided. There is a substantial reduction in the tariff here. Again, I think we would want an explanation from the minister as to how he is going to amend the regulations governing a settler's effects. Will this have to do with automobiles and an increase in the valuation of a settler's effects? Before

June 7, 1966
Customs Tariff
the resolution is passed we should have some indication from the minister in this regard.
[DOT] (3:30 p.m.)
Last year and the year before-when I was on the government side I spoke privately to the then minister of finance about this matter-I wondered why items 44043-1 and 44047-1, dealing with aircraft engines of a particular size, were not incorporated on a permanent basis. I believe we have gone through the performance, in the nine years I have been in this house, of giving an annual extension to these particular items. How long is this to go on? Is this a sort of exclusive pragmatic approach? Those are the only remarks I shall make in regard to the particular items that appear under Customs Tariff resolution No. 1.
Resolution No. 2 deals with the question of drawback. This is a somewhat more important matter and I am sure other members of the house will wish to speak on it because it affects the operations of Canada's automobile industry under the automobile parts agreement when we see that there is introduced a 99 per cent drawback on "machines; precision instruments and apparatus for heat treating, welding, sorting, testing, inspecting or correcting; control panels for use with the aforementioned machines and precision instruments and apparatus; all of the foregoing of a class or kind not made in Canada; accessories", etc. The amendment is:
When used in the plants of manufacturers of automobiles and motor vehicles or of automobile or motor vehicle parts for the manufacture of automobiles and motor vehicles or of automobile or motor vehicle parts; or when used for the manufacture of dies, jigs, fixtures or moulds which are used in the production of automobile or motor vehicle parts.
In actual fact this amendment goes one step back of the actual manufacture or assembling of automobiles or parts therefor in that the minister is including dies, jigs and machine tools that go to make up these automobiles and parts. The comments of the hon. member for Wellington South and others on behalf of the opposition clearly indicated that this would provide some very special relief. I think the minister must be commended for making this change and trying to help our auto parts manufacturers to achieve a position of relative equality with their counterparts and competitors in the United States, because the American manufacturers do not have to pay a comparable sales tax. That amendment is introduced under the Excise
TMr. Lambert.]
Tax Act. There is also the relief from any duty under the Customs Tariff when these machines are not made in Canada. That is all well and good in the event that we want to make the auto parts agreement function in the best possible way.
The third item has to do with certain very important matters, namely, used or second hand mattresses or materials therefrom. I think the minister should enlighten the house why this particular item was negotiated. Was it on behalf of a particular industry? I could talk to the minister about other industries which have made representations as to tariff changes. I know that his officials have had correspondence for instance, with the manufacturers of drilling bits in Canada who are trying to found a small, albeit important, secondary industry in the Canadian oil industry. They are in competition with a much larger industry in the United States. They are in competition with, shall we say, much more entrenched business habits which are in fact restrictive agreements on the part of American manufacturers who have distributing agencies and branches in Canada which lay down restrictive marketing practices. A supply house in Canada, whether it be a branch supply house or an independent Canadian supply house, that wants to handle a particular type of drill bit manufactured in the United States cannot do so unless it agrees that the item will be handled exclusively. This make it very difficult for any Canadian business to get started in this field.
I want to draw to the minister's attention that there are many industries in the oil business in Canada to which in the past certain customs tariff relief has been given. I remember that some five or so years ago a plant producing sucker rods was given protection. This meant the difference between a large plant continuing in business or closing down completely. Fortunately the government of the day saw the wisdom of imposing a reasonable tariff compared with the American tariff. I believe we imposed a tariff of 10 per cent. The Canadian manufacturer could supply the North Dakota field and service it but in the face of a 22\ per cent United States duty.
A great many of these goods come in under a one-way flow. It is all very well to allow commodities to be imported into Canada free of duty, but try to do the same thing into the United States and one runs into a very high tariff wall. One might say that one of the incongruities of the Kennedy round of talks
June 7, 1966

is the offer to slash tariffs by 50 per cent in respect of certain commodities that may be negotiated. It is very well to say you will slash tariffs from 10 per cent to 5 per cent but this is not really meaningful if the countervailing American duty is 50 per cent or 37J per cent because cutting that one in half means that the tariff is still relatively very high. Therefore all of the proposals of the Kennedy round of talks have to be studied very carefully; they can be deceptive on the surface.
The next matter I wish to speak about is in the general nature of a discussion with regard to the Customs Tariff as it relates to surcharges and particularly British surcharges. We have read comments that the British government-this was disclosed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his most recent budget declarations-proposes that by next November the British surcharges will have largely disappeared. It has been suggested in many quarters, and I would say informed quarters, that the reason these surcharges will be removed is that because of the pattern of British trade they really have not meant too much.
[DOT] (3:40 p.m.)
In fact, looking at today's headlines in the financial press one sees "pound hits 18 months' low point". There must be a very serious problem of imbalance of payments. If the pound is now down to the 18 months' low point it means that the customs surcharges are not having the effect of correcting the serious imbalance in British trade. Perhaps the minister will advise us on his thinking in this regard, although I am not inviting him to put himself in the role of the Chancellor of the Exchequer of the British Government. I am simply asking him to indicate to us his thinking on the nature of these surcharges.
He might also tell us what might be the effect on Canadian trade and Canadian customs of the devaluation of the Indian rupee. All these factors are affecting our trade. I realize that all these matters are partly under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Trade and Commerce. However, I am sure that the minister will take into account events which have come to pass since the Budget debate and, after listening to this discussion, will give us his views, because I believe the house and the country are entitled to know precisely what his thinking is in this regard.
As I said at the outset, Mr. Chairman, the Customs Tariff resolution is a relatively short one. The items are relatively inconsequential,
Customs Tariff
with the exception of one or two, and therefore I will limit my remarks at this time to what I have said. I am sure there will be other members of the house who will wish to raise other points on this resolution.


Mr. Chairman, there is one matter on which I want to ask the minister whether at some stage in the future he will consider making a statement to the house. I suppose that technically speaking it comes partly under the Department of Trade and Commerce but it is of such importance that perhaps the minister will take it into consideration.
I wish to say a few words about the Kennedy round of trade negotiations. When the trade expansion act was passed in 1962 it was greeted with wide acclaim and most parties in this house indicated an interest in it and a desire for Canada to participate. Recently, at the joint interparliamentary meeting in Washington, we had the opportunity to have some very frank discussions with members of the Senate and the House of Representatives concerning the Kennedy round of trade negotiations. Those discussions left us with the distinct impression that there is a very grave danger of the Kennedy round of negotiations ending in failure or becoming completely bogged down. Hon. members are certainly aware that a good deal of Canada's future trade and tariff policy is tied to the success of the Kennedy round.
The trade expansion act expires, I believe,, in June of next year, although I am not: positive of the date. The information which we received in Washington, and which we could not get here in Canada, was to the effect that the United States has not as yet been told by the European economic community the price which that community intends to set for the entry of U.S. agricultural products into Europe. This is really what the United States is after; they are primarily concerned with gaining access to the European economic community for their agricultural products. According to the United States people with whom we talked, a huge squeeze play is in progress. The European community is dragging its feet and has not yet told the U.S. the price it will demand. All the indications at present point to the fact that the European community will continue to do this until they run out the string, so to speak, until the trade expansion act has almost expired. They will then indicate to the United States the price which they intend to put on the entry of these U.S. products into
<6066

June 7, 1966
Customs Tariff
Europe. This means that the U.S. Congress will then be faced with the very real problem [DOT]of trying to arrange for an extension of the trade expansion act.
When that act was passed in 1962 nobody in the United States had any idea of the implications that the provision of the Kennedy round of negotiations might have on U.S. industry. In order to assuage the fears of many Americans the United States incorporated certain forms of adjustment and assistance in the trade expansion act. They were very vague but they were put in to allay fears in the United States regarding the imbalance which might result from actions taken under that act. Of course, in the interval there have been many test cases under this legislation and, as our U.S. friends told us, the legislation has not been successful and is not acc