Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to announce that the Department of Transport has been assigned the responsibility for the federal government's role and leadership in the field of motor vehicle and highway safety. In formulating its program the government will utilize and co-ordinate the efforts of all federal government departments concerned with the many aspects of motor vehicle and highway safety, and will also draw on the resources of other Canadian authorities concerned with this matter.
The government, in taking this initiative, has been assisted and guided by the report on auto safety prepared by the House of Commons standing committee on justice and legal affairs, and by the consultations on motor vehicle and highway safety which have been held with representatives of the provincial governments. Particular attention in carrying out the program will be given to the responsibilities of the different levels of government in this field of activity.
The government's first step will be to establish in the Department of Transport a unit which will co-ordinate the federal government's participation in the program. Action will also be taken by the federal government, after further discussions with the provinces, to establish national standards and practices affecting motor vehicle safety. It is also intended to create a public advisory board composed of representatives from the provinces, the industry, safety organizations and other interested groups. This board will be an important source of advice and guidance to the Minister of Transport on motor vehicle and highway safety.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the minister for this most important announcement,
27053-200S
and he surely can count on continued bipartisan interest and support from this side of the house in this most serious field.
In brief reply to his announcement may I outline the following. On September 13, 1899, Mr. H. H. Bliss, a real estate dealer, was struck and killed by a car as he stepped off a trolley at Central Park West and 74th Street in New York city. He was the first victim of the automobile age. Since that day road accidents have caused the death of more than one and three quarter million Americans and Canadians, more than all the casualties of all the wars in American and Canadian history.
[DOT] (2:40 p.m)
In both countries the automobile is the third greatest killer after cancer and heart disease. It is the No. 1 killer of our young people between the ages of 16 and 35. In Canada in 1965 there were close to 5,000 traffic deaths and 150,000 injuries. More than two thirds of those reported injuries involved lifetime disability. In other words the number of those permanently disabled in any one year equals the population of a large city. The direct cost to the Canadian economy was close to three quarters of a billion dollars.
In concluding, Mr. Speaker, may I pinpoint what I believe must be done in this area. Because of automobile model similarities in Canada and the United States, obviously we have a common interest in the field, but let us hope this does not mean we shall depend entirely on the United States for highway safety, protection and legislation. The Canadian government received the brief on highway deaths and injuries in July, 1965, so we in Canada became interested in this problem long before the United States.
Therefore I say that under the direction of this minister Canada can take a lead in combating this world wide epidemic. It is my belief that we must immediately set up a national accident prevention research centre under the National Research Council. We spent millions of dollars investigating the aircraft crash at Ste. Therese which unfortunately took 100 lives, but we lose this many lives on our roads every week and do not spend any public or private money in research in this field.
3164	COMMONS
Federal Program of Transport Department
I believe we should co-operate with the state of New York in the building of a prototype safety car. We should insist that the federal and provincial governments enforce standards codified and agreed upon after the Ottawa meeting that took place about a year ago. We should encourage the automobile industry to forgo for some time spending millions of dollars on needless style changes and devoting the money saved to safety and safety features.
Each and every individual citizen has his or her role to play. It seems to me that when we are talking about sending people to the moon and bringing them back safely, we can end this senseless slaughter on our highways. Automobiles, like other forms of transportation, aircraft and the rolling stock on the railways will have to be brought under the rule of law.
We welcome this announcement by the minister.


Mr. Speaker, as far as it goes, and as late as it comes, I am sure the government's announcement will be welcomed by all those concerned in the task of reducing the warlike casualty toll on our highways. On the basis of the figures for the past five years, 25,000 Canadians have been killed and 750,000 have been injured on our roads. The economic toll, as has already been said, runs into billions of dollars. Canada' record in this field is one of the worst in the world.
There are three main ingredients in this problem; one, the car; two, the driver; and three, the environment, namely the road. The minister's announcement aims at grappling with one of these issues. We will be examining his proposals in detail and in the light of the justice committee report which unanimously called for the setting up of standards of inspection and quality control right to the manufacturing plant level.
It must be kept in mind, however, that a safe car will not by itself greatly reduce the number of accidents. We hope it will help to greatly reduce the effect of the accidents. We also hope the justice department will make this attack on motor vehicle danger a twopronged one by legislating against, for example, drinking drivers, as the Minister of Justice has promised.
In conclusion let me say, Mr. Speaker, that we in this party will continue to do all we can to make the traffic safety legislation effective and businesslike.

DEBATES	October 17. 1967


Mr. Speaker, we in this group welcome the announcement by the minister assigning to the Department of Transport responsibilities in the field of motor vehicle and highway safety. Judging by the astounding figures published every week end the number of deaths which occur owing to automobile accidents has greatly increased in the last few years. However, I wish to point out that there seems to be a growing tendency to put the blame on the manufacturers of automobiles in spite of the fact that it is the driver behind the wheel who is most to blame.
I do not wish to say that automobiles are not up to the required standard, and it is certainly a fact that many improvements have been made to them. I presume that work in that direction will continue, but a car is a product made by a company, and it has to be sold. There is always room for improvement in this field, but there is still more room for improvement in the man sitting behind the wheel.
I should like to draw the attention of the minister and any hon. member who might be interested to an interesting article which appeared in Reader's Digest written by a test driver. He stated that throughout his life he has driven at speeds in excess of 100 miles per hour, and he has not been killed nor has he killed any of his passengers. He knew what the automobile could stand and what he himself could do, and he did not demand of the car or himself more than could be done.
The hon. member for New Westminster stated there were three factors which should be considered, namely the automobile, the driver and the road conditions. There are many roads traversing this country and we have many automobiles, but it is the efficiency of the driver which has the greatest bearing on automobile accidents. There is a member in this house, the hon. member for Lapointe (Mr. Gregoire) about whom I might say-


Order, please. I hesitate to interrupt the hon. member. I am sure he is entitled to the same leeway as that which was accorded other members who have taken part in this debate. I must remind him and all other hon. members of the provisions of standing order 15, which states that a member of the government may make a brief statement and that representatives of parties in opposition may comment briefly. Of course brevity is a very relative term, but I think the hon. member at this point may be going beyond the limitation of the rule.
October 17, 1967


I thank Your Honour for bringing me back to the subject matter. I had not realized I was speaking on any other subject. It is my belief, however, that I should be allowed at least to give this group's opinion as to the work which should be done by the committee which the minister intends to set up and which would be working in conjunction with the provinces. I am trying to combat the existing tendency to put all the blame on one person. I think it is our duty at present to direct the committee to work toward reducing as much as possible the rate of car accidents.
[DOT] (2:50 p.m.)
My main point is that it might be possible to reduce the growing number of gadgets in automobiles, such as safety belts. I think 90 per cent of the people using cars do not use safety belts. We might as well take them out, because we are paying for something we are not using. I still insist that the insurance companies themselves are involved in this issue of safe driving.


Order, please.


If I may close with this statement, I should like to ask the Minister of Transport to look not only to the automobile manufacturers in relation to this question of safety but also at the drivers of automobiles, their ability to drive and the roads on which people are driving in this country.


At this point I hesitate to rise, Mr. Speaker. I should like to say that we welcome the announcement by the minister. I hope that in his consideration of this matter he will pay special attention to the older automobiles that are on the highways, and the safety of automobiles already on the highways today. Various things can happen to automobiles which make them unsafe and I feel there are many unsafe old automobiles on the highways.
However, I should like to make one further point. I think we ought to be looking toward the establishment of a highway patrol system not designed to arrest people but to take photographs with high speed equipment of the actions of drivers on the highways. In this way bad drivers could be brought to the attention of the courts and, through the process of law, removed from the highway or given training courses in which they would learn to drive.
Inquiries of the Ministry NOVA SCOTIA


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Prime Minister. I should like to ask if his attention has been drawn to a speech by the Minister of Forestry and Rural Development in Banff yesterday in which he stated the federal government was considering the development of a deep sea port in the strait of Canso area. Does this statement represent government policy?


The report I have read of that statement by the minister, delivered at a conference in Banff, does not quite coincide with my hon. friend's interpretation of it. I did see this report. The minister will be back tomorrow, and I will be discussing his statement with him.


May I
ask a supplementary question which is related to a question I asked the Minister of Forestry and Rural Development not long ago. Will the Prime Minister request the Minister of Forestry and Rural Development to proceed immediately with the plan which resulted from the study of the nine northern counties in Nova Scotia?


I shall be glad to discuss that matter also, so we can add to the progress being made in that part of Nova Scotia.


I
should like to ask a supplementary question of the Prime Minister. Were these plans for the new port that has been mentioned brought to the attention of Dosco management before their decision was made to close out the operations of the company?


Well, Mr. Speaker, I am not quite sure to what my hon. friend is referring, the new board or the corporation.


I am referring to the board of the Dosco Corporation which made the decision to close out the operations of the plant next April.


The two matters are not related. The first information we received about the plan of the corporation was last Friday, as we indicated yesterday.

October 17. 1967
Inquiries of the Ministry


My question was whether the Dosco Company was advised of the government's plan to build this new port before the board made its decision.


My hon. friend has assumed that there has been a particular plan for a particular new port. I said this matter will be discussed with the minister. The corporation was aware of the government's plans generally for development in that area.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a supplementary question. Has Dosco in the past three years received any federal grants through the Department of Industry's area assistance program or any other program of that department? If so, could the minister say what were the amounts and for what purposes?


Order. I suggest to the hon. member that this is not the type of question that can be asked now.


Mr. Speaker, this is a very important question, in that this matter has been discussed and is urgent. Certainly we would like to know what course may be charted and what proposal may be put to this company in respect of this closure.


I suggest to the hon. member that his question was asking for a listing or enumeration of assistance which might have been given to the company over a period of three years, and therefore is not the type of question which can be asked now.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question arising from the Prime Minister's answer to the effect that he did not know this corporation's plans until last Friday. I was not too sure whether he was referring to Dosco or to the Cape Breton Development Corporation. Was the Prime Minister or any member of his cabinet aware of Dosco's announced intentions before last Thursday, and since Dosco announced its intentions has the cabinet met to discuss the matter?


Mr. Speaker, the first information we got with regard to the intention of Dosco was, as I indicated, at the end of last week. Since that time, beginning Friday morning, cabinet has met both as a full cabinet and in committee to discuss what can be done in the face of this situation. At the present time two ministers and officials concerned are on their way down to Nova Scotia for a meeting this evening.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the Prime Minister indicate in what direction the cabinet intends to move or what plans it has formulated regarding this closure?


Not at the moment, Mr. Speaker.


I have a question for the Minister of Industry. I would ask the minister whether he was aware before Thursday of Dosco's announced intention to close, and whether the government-


Order. It seems to me that the hon. member asked this question of the Prime Minister a moment ago, and I suggest that an answer was given.


With all due respect, I asked the Prime Minister whether he, as Prime Minister, or any of his colleagues were aware of the decision. Now it is quite possible that the Minister of Industry could be aware of it but that the Prime Minister had not been informed.


I hope the hon. member will not attempt to ask that question of every member of the government.


That would be one way of getting an answer, sir.


Oh, oh.


Perhaps I may be permitted to ask the remaining part of the question. Is the government formulating plans for a closure of the Sydney steel operation, or is an effort being made to maintain that operation?


As the Minister of National Health and Welfare and the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources indicated yesterday, notice of Dosco's intention came to the government- and this includes myself-for the first time last Thursday. I had no previous knowledge of this, nor did my colleagues. They are now endeavouring to co-operate with the government of Nova Scotia to ascertain the basic background in detail and to see what steps could be taken to alleviate what is a very serious situation in Cape Breton.


Perhaps, in order to get to the basis of the
October 17, 1967

information I am seeking, the minister would give me a clear-cut answer. Is the government formulating plans for the closure-


Order.


Order. The hon. member asked a question which was certainly heard by the minister-I heard it clearly-and the minister seems to have given an answer.


With all due respect, the minister did not answer that portion of the question with which the people of Cape Breton are concerned.


Oh.


Order. I should hope this
matter the hon. member is raising will continue to be handled in the way it was handled yesterday, and I would invite the hon. member who asked the question not to proceed further.


I intend to do that; I hope to handle this matter in the same way it was handled yesterday. That is why I asked the minister whether the government was formulating plans for the closure of the operation, or whether the Minister of National Health and Welfare, the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, and others in the government are co-operating in an effort to see the operation is continued.


The plan to close was announced, not as a plan of the government but as a plan of the Dominion Steel and Coal Corporation. Consequently the government is not formulating plans to close the operation. As yet we are not in a position to say intelligently what should be done. I would be not only imprudent but, I think, stupid to try to indicate to the hon. member that we now know all the answers.


I rise on a question of privilege. I see that I shall not get answers other than by rising on a question of privilege. I would now ask the Prime Minister and his cabinet colleagues to read the statement made by the Minister of Forestry and Rural Development in Banff yesterday, and explain to this house why it is that a minister of the crown can go to Banff,
2,000	miles away, and speak of the plans this government has for the cutting back or phasing out of the Sydney steel industry. Why are we not given honest answers? There are lies being told in the house. Members opposite should make up their minds who is telling the lies.


Order, please.
Inquiries of the Ministry INDUSTRY


On the orders of the day:
['No, Mr. Speaker.']
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Industry with respect to the announced cancellation of the OT-4 development program which is being conducted by Orenda Limited of Malton, Ontario. In view of the fact that this project for the development of an industrial gas turbine engine was being jointly financed by the United States and Canadian governments, may I ask the minister why the Canadian financial assistance has been withdrawn and the project cancelled?


Mr. Speaker, projects of this character are reviewed periodically, at least every six months. It became apparent on a previous review that this particular technique of developing or generating power by an industrial turbine was being overtaken by other developments elsewhere. Consequently at the last review there was agreement among the company, the government of Canada and the government of the United States that it would not be profitable to proceed any further with this development, and on an agreed basis it was abandoned.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact that some 200 persons will become unemployed, some 80 of whom are highly skilled development engineers who are in short supply in this country, is the government intending to make any use (a) of these trained design engineers who are badly needed, and (b) of the information which has been gathered regarding this type of industrial turbine engine for use in further development in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, Orenda Engines is continuing development of gas turbines. This is one particular type of gas turbine. The information gained will therefore be useful within Orenda Engines on a continuing basis. As the hon. member pointed out, this type of engineering technician is currently in short supply in Canada, and I do not imagine those who have been released will experience much difficulty in being taken up elsewhere. Indeed, there is United Aircraft in Longueuil which is doing a similar kind of work, especially for the Royal Canadian Navy, and they are seeking additional engineering talent of this kind.
October 17, 1967

Inquiries of the Ministry


One further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is any of the information or research material which has been gained as a result of this development project being turned over to the Cummins Diesel company of the United States?


I do not know that, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of a reported statement by the Secretary General of the United Nations that another meeting between the United States and Egyptian delegates was being held and that this meeting might lead to an agreement on which to base security council action for a Middle East solution, might I ask whether the government has received information to provide the basis for any hope that an early settlement may be reached?


Mr. Speaker, the Canadian government has not only been informed of the discussions that have taken place between the Soviet union and the United States ambassadors at the United Nations, but we have participated in some discussions during the past few weeks. In the month of July Canada had proposed as a minimum requirement for reaching a permanent settlement, that there should be appointed a representative of the Secretary General who would act as a communications link between the parties in the Middle East situation.
That proposal is part of the subject matter of the discussions, but no agreement has been reached, certainly no agreement sufficient to warrant a general agreement that there should be an immediate meeting of the security council.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. I welcome him back from his trade mission to Japan. It is reported that trade officials have stated that the export of wheat out of Vancouver has been reduced to a trickle. Did the minister

obtain a positive assurance from the trade officials and minister of agriculture of Japan that Canada would regain her wheat export market in that country?


Mr. Speaker, after visiting Japan and receiving a friendly, indeed a cordial reception-


Hear, hear.


Did you talk about wheat?


-I discussed a number of trade matters including, of course, wheat. I think it is fair to say that the trip was productive. I hope that exports of wheat to Japan will now resume a more normal pattern.


I am glad the minister's trip was productive. I wonder whether the minister can now tell us if Canada's plan of subsidizing wheat sales is assisting us to regain our markets in Japan as against the United States dumping of wheat.


No, Mr. Speaker. Since the action that we took has had the effect of strengthening the world market, the current price of wheat has been within the range agreed to at Geneva in the subsequent international wheat agreement.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. While the minister was in Japan did he have talks with the Japanese government to get an indication of whether there would be additional markets for Canadian steel in Japan?


Mr. Speaker, we discussed a wide variety of subjects, including steel and other commodities. I can say that I expect our trade with Japan will expand in both directions.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister the assurance from the exporting and importing countries that if we should sell our wheat at below the minimum price the international wheat agreement will still be ratified?


Order, please. The question appears to be hypothetical.


I have a supplementary question for the minister. Can he assure the textile manufacturers and shoe manufacturers that our trade with Japan will be improved and that our industries here will be protected?
October 17, 1967


Mr. Speaker, I think that subject has been covered quite often in the house. The recent actions by the Minister of Finance following his conversations with the Japanese government as they relate to textile imports I think have already been reported. As for shoes, while there is a large volume of imports into Canada we are also exporting a great many shoes. I hope the tariff adjustments under the Kennedy round will benefit Canadian producers.


have a further question for the Minister of Trade and Commerce relating to wheat sales. From how many countries has he received an indication that they intend to ratify the wheat agreement which comes into effect on July 1?


I think that this convention is open for signature now. The Canadian government has indicated its intention to ratify; it remains to be seen how many other countries indicate their intention by signing the book which is open now in Washington. I expect that all countries will wish to ratify the agreement.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. How many of the importing countries have already ratified the agreement or signified their intention to ratify it?


I think it is a little premature to say. The date for ratification is July 1, 1968, and I am sure that within the course of the next few weeks there will be a clearer indication.


Is not November 30 the deadline for ratification by importing countries?


No, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State. Could the minister advise the house as to the current status of the centennial medal, the number already issued and the number expected to be issued in the near future?


Oh, oh.


Order, please. I have doubts about that question. The hon. member is inviting the Secretary of State to make a statement which could be made on motions. If the
Inquiries of the Ministry house wishes to hear the information from the Secretary of State I shall allow the question; otherwise I think the minister could answer it on motions. Is it the wish of the house that the question be allowed.


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for giving me notice of this question yesterday. I find that several thousand recommendations have already been received by the department. They are coming from the agencies and national associations which the Prime Minister specified in his announcement. We hope that very shortly the medals will be distributed to meritorious Canadians on the basis, so far as civilians are concerned, of something like one for every thousand of population.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I do have a serious question, but I must say that, for a moment I had contemplated asking the Prime Minister if he knew what announcement the hon. lady referred to; from his expression it seemed that he did not know.
My serious question is also for the Prime Minister. Is he aware of the recent statement attributed to Premier Robichaud of New Brunswick that as a result of his request, the government of Canada will review the medicare program with the provinces before July next? Is this so and a fact, has the government arrived at this intention?


On the first part of the question, Mr. Speaker, I should like to reassure my hon. friend that all constructive members of the opposition will be included in the list for centennial medals.


Oh, oh.


On the second question, I have not heard of that statement but I shall be very glad to look into it.


On the orders of the day:
['Order, please.\n[Mr. Keays.l\nDEBATES\tOctober 17, 1967']
My question is for the Minister of Finance. Is the minister aware of the continuing deficit being brought about
3170	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry through transactions in our outstanding securities in other countries? Has he any information for this house as to how he intends to reverse the trend?


Order. I think the hon. member's question is much too general in scope. I doubt whether it can be asked at this time.


I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State and ask whether, over and above the $40,000 the federal government contributed to the international sculpture symposium, the federal government paid anything for the welded auto bumpers that were obtained from the New York sculptor last week, and was this expenditure approved by the Minister of Finance?


That was a gift, gratis, from the grateful sculptor, Mr. Jason Seley, to the Department of the Secretary of State.


That is the auto safety campaign.


My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Would the right hon. gentleman assist the understanding of hon. members by tabling a list of grants and other benefits which have accrued to the various countries whose dignitaries have visited Canada this year?


If this question were placed on the order paper I believe it could be dealt with.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question to direct to the Solicitor General. Is the hon. gentleman aware that Radio Havana is broadcasting a daily half hour program on the 49 metre band in French, beamed directly at Quebec listeners and giving instructions in subversive activity and guerrilla warfare, and that in recent weeks a second program has been added, this time beamed to the western Canadian Indian and Metis population, urging them to rise in a "red power" rebellion?


Oh, oh.


Is the minister aware of this subversive broadcasting-


Order, please.
[Mr. Keays.l
DEBATES	October 17, 1967


On the orders of the day:
My question is for the Minister of Transport. Can the hon. gentleman advise the house whether the government will meet with interested parties on the question of less than carload freight rates in the maritime provinces?


I am sure we would be glad to do so at an appropriate time, Mr. Speaker. This question has been referred not only to the officials of my department but to the railway companies and to the Canadian transport commission for consideration and advice. As soon as I have had an opportunity to meet with some of my officials I shall be in a better position to advise the hon. member when such a discussion might take place.


Would the minister be kind enough to indicate to the house the date by which he expects the special study on maritime freight rates to come within the purview of this house?


I will take that question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to address a question to the Prime Minister; it refers to the forthcoming visit to Rhodesia of the United Kingdom commonwealth relations secretary. Considering the established pattern of commonwealth consultation on the Rhodesia question, can the Prime Minister advise us whether the government of Canada was informed of the proposed visit and whether Mr. Thompson's initiative may be regarded as a new commonwealth effort to deal with the Rhodesian problem?


We were informed of the proposed visit, but I do not think it can be interpreted as a new commonwealth effort. It is rather an investigatory visit by the new Secretary of State for Commonwealth Affairs.
October 17. 1967

Inquiries of the Ministry
NATIONAL DEFENCE	FINANCE


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister of National Defence. Have the Canadian Intelligence Corps and the Canadian Provost Corps been amalgamated, and are officers and men of these corps now being trained in one school at Camp Borden?


I think such a question should be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
wish to address to the Secretary of State for External Affairs a question which concerns a great many people. On October 2 my hon. friend from Danforth asked the Prime Minister the following question:
Does the government have any information on the rumours circulating to the effect that United States bombers are refuelling in Canada as one of two stages, one stage being in Alberta and the other in Alaska? If so, can the Prime Minister say whether these rumours are true.
To which the Prime Minister replied:
Mr. Speaker, I have no information whatever which would support that statement insofar as Alberta is concerned, but I will be glad to make inquiries.
My question-and perhaps I should more properly address it to the Prime Minister-is, has the Prime Minister any further information to give the house with respect to this unprecedented situation?


The Secretary of State for External Affairs has asked me to reply. I can say that there was no truth whatever in that story. I made an investigation and found there was no truth in it.


On the orders of the day:
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it true that the government has placed a ceiling of $150 million on the cost of construction of the Northumberland causeway?


Order. This is a question which cannot be asked at this time.
27053-20H


On the orders of the day:
wish to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. Is the government giving consideration to introducing tax incentives in the near future designed to induce greater industrial productivity?


I doubt whether it would be proper in answer to a question on orders of the day to give any indication of government financial policy of this kind.


Is the minister not aware that in the debate on the budget which has just been completed I asked him to reply to this question within the next day and a half, and he refused to do so. Would he therefore do so now?


Order.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he can state whether organizational changes are taking place in the Company of Young Canadians in order to overcome some of the problems which have existed within that group, and will the budget of $2.8 million for this year be maintained at its present level?


No, Mr. Speaker. The budget is in accord with the desire of the government to reduce expenditures, and wherever possible they will be reduced.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. On Friday last I asked the Prime Minister whether he could make a statement about the results of his meeting with Premier Roblin concerning the Air Canada overhaul base at Winnipeg. The Prime Minister said he was having a discussion with
October 17, 1967

Inquiries of the Ministry the Minister of Transport and planned to make a further report to Mr. Roblin after that discussion. Is the Prime Minister now in a position to indicate what further information has been communicated by the government of Canada to the government of Manitoba?


Not at this time, Mr. Speaker, but I hope the Minister of Transport will be able to make a statement before long. He is looking into the matter. He has already seen the president of Air Canada, and as soon as there is anything to report I can assure my hon. friend that this will be done.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I should like to ask the Prime Minister. Like many members I am receiving letters from war veterans and retired civil servants asking if and when they will receive an increase in their pensions. Is it the intention of the government to introduce legislation before Christmas, or is this a matter which is affected by the economy measures which I understand the government is practising?


Order. I am sure the hon. member will realize that this is a question which has already been asked by other hon. members during the past few days.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to put to the Secretary of State a question which I consider urgent since it affects the economy of the Canadian metropolis. Is she in a position to say what is happening with the construction of Place Radio-Canada in Montreal and will the government continue to delay the start of this undertaking which the present government has been doing for two years now?


As the hon. member has noted, this involves an undertaking which seems somewhat delayed and I believe that in the


circumstances, the question may easily be put on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, on a point of order.
If I put this question now, it is because the undertaking has already been delayed for two years and the minister has publicly given the undertaking that this construction would be proceeded with. So I am asking what she intends to do about this?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address my question to the Postmaster General. Is he in a position to confirm or deny reports of last week that medical and first aid supplies being sent parcel post by one or two Canadian church groups were turned back at a point of transshipment in San Francisco? If so, can the minister say whether any representations have been made to the International Postal Union in that regard?


I will take notice of that question, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the hon. Minister of Justice (Mr. Trudeau) concerning his intention of amending the Criminal Code in order to allow a national lottery in the future.
Before amending the Criminal Code, does the Minister of Justice intend to submit this plan for study to a joint committee of the Senate and the House of Commons?


Mr. Speaker, with regard to the first part of the question, I must correct the hon. member for Megantic. I said that the bill to amend the Criminal Code would include provisions concerning lotteries, but I did not indicate the purport of that amendment.
October 17, 1967

Canadian Broadcasting Policy As for the	second part of the question, I	Transport.	I wonder whether he is in a posifeel that the	procedure to be followed is to	tion today	to	reply to a question I asked himintroduce the	bill and then allow both houses	last week,	of	which he took notice, regardingto suggest, if	they so desire, that the bill be	the removal	of the arbitration clause from
referred to a committee. But on this last ship tenders of his department, point, I cannot anticipate anything.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
Can the minister tell the house roughly when the government will table that bill?


Mr. Speaker, that matter is the responsibility of the leader of the house. Assuredly, we are very eager to adopt several measures and I trust the opposition will cooperate with us.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a last supplementary question to the minister.
I am sure the opposition will always be willing to co-operate with the minister. In any event, has the province of Quebec, as a result of the statement made by the Minister of Justice, indicated its intention with regard to this bill, that is to say indicated whether or not it intends to introduce a bill to allow lotteries in that province?


Mr. Speaker, as I have often been told, I am not empowered to speak on behalf of the government of the province of Quebec.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the minister concerning his intention to amend the criminal code in that connection. Has he consulted the provinces in this connection?


Mr. Speaker, the jurisdiction of the federal government over the criminal code is clearly established by the constitution. However, when we want to bring about amendments concerning the whole country, we consult the people concerned in the matter. We receive especially representations from all interested people. However, I do not think that in the discharge of our legal jurisdiction we should, every time we want to take action, consult people who have no jurisdiction in the matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of the close relationship between Canadian foreign policy and Canadian defence policy I should like to ask whether he will use his influence to try to arrange a joint meeting of the committee on external affairs and the committee on national defence in order that they may jointly consider the position of Canada within NATO and NORAD, as those two agreements are now coming to a close.


I do not know whether I have very much influence in a matter of that kind, but I shall be very glad to discuss this proposal with the two ministers concerned and with the chairmen of the two committees.


that the house go into committee to consider the following resolution:
That it is expedient to introduce a measure to implement a broadcasting policy for Canada, to amend the Radio Act in consequence thereof and to enact other consequential and related provisions.
Motion agreed to and the house went into committee, Mr. Batten in the chair.


Mr. Chairman, the question of broadcasting in Canada, which is the subject covered by the resolution with which we are dealing today, has been discussed now for almost three years at great length both inside and outside this chamber. For that reason I will not speak for very long today.
Last year the government produced a white paper giving its intentions with regard to new legislation in this field. It will be recalled that that white paper became the subject of careful and detailed investigation by the standing committee on broadcasting, films and assistance to the arts. In preparing the bill which will be exposed following first reading we
October 17, 1967

Canadian Broadcasting Policy gave very careful consideration to the very lucid and comprehensive report prepared by the standing committee.
[DOT] (3:30 p.m.)
I think most hon. members will recall that the standing committee's report followed very closely the principles enunciated in the white paper on broadcasting. Therefore the legislation has been framed in such a way as to establish a statutory policy for broadcasting in Canada and to assign the responsibility for interpretation and implementation of that policy to an independent public authority. Accordingly the objectives of the legislation closely follow the principles set forth in the white paper, but in some cases amplified by the report, by the observations and recommendations of the standing committee.
The most important of the principles is surely that which established that the airwaves, which must be shared between public and private broadcasters, are public property and that they constitute a single broadcasting system. It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of broadcasting as a means of preserving and strengthening the cultural, social, political and economic fabric of Canada, and the system therefore has to be effectively owned and controlled by Canadians. It should be just as clear that every broadcaster, whether public or private, has a public responsibility for the effects of the programs he broadcasts. There must be reasonable opportunity for the expression of conflicting views on matters of public controversy.
The programming provided by the system as a whole has to be very comprehensive, making the most practical use of Canadian resources and talent. The Canadian listening and watching public will accept nothing less.
Second, since the costs of operating both the public and private elements of the system are, in the end, borne by the public as a whole, it is quite clear that every Canadian is entitled to broadcasting service. Moreover, since we live in a country of two official languages each Canadian is entitled to broadcasting service in the language of his choice, English or French. The only limitation on these objectives is the availability of public funds to provide these services in all parts of Canada. But it must be recognized that the extension of coverage, now that we have provided coverage in the heavily populated areas and are getting into the more remote areas, involves increasingly heavy per capita costs which can only be given an appropriate priority in relation to other essential expenditures.
[Miss LaMarsh.3
Third, there can be no question but that this country needs a national broadcasting service in English and French, the requirements of which must have clear priority over the interests of the private broadcasters. Accordingly the legislation has been framed to emphasize this point, to establish the objectives of the national broadcasting service in clear statutory form, and to define as precisely as possible the areas of responsibility in relationships between the regulatory authority and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.
I should like to refer briefly to two other matters. While the legislation which the government is now seeking permission to introduce will declare that facilities for educational broadcasting are to be provided within the framework of the single broadcasting system, and therefore subject to the regulatory authority like all other broadcasting undertakings, the bill will not make specific reference to the provision of these facilities. I think most hon. members will understand it is our intention to bring forward a separate bill for this purpose, which will be drafted in its final form only after the subject has been thoroughly considered and carefully examined by the standing committee whose recommendations, needless to say, will be taken into full and careful consideration after the committee has heard witnesses and has reported to the house.
I should perhaps add that although following precedent I am moving a resolution to introduce the broadcasting bill, the bill does not in its present form make specific provision for meeting the cost of operating the C.B.C. It is our intention to recommend to parliament the adoption of a financing formula which will afford to the C.B.C. an assurance of the moneys that are to be made available over a five year period so that the corporation can more effectively plan its future operations on a rational basis. The details of such a formula are at present being worked out by officials of the departments concerned in consultation with the corporation, and it is the intention of the government to introduce separate legislation for this purpose before the end of the current fiscal year.
The preparation of legislation on such a complex subject as broadcasting is a matter that is not undertaken lightly. We do not amend our broadcasting legislation or replace it by new legislation often. We must, of course, give the most scrupulous attention to the public and parliamentary discussion which has taken place over the last two or
October 17, 1967	COMMONS
three years, and this we have attempted to do while still proceeding with all reasonable dispatch. Now, however, the time has come for hon. members to see the details of the bill, to which I hope they will be able to address themselves at length on second reading.
Therefore I hope that during today's debate the committee will have an opportunity to pass the resolution as quickly as possible so that hon. members may without delay get on to discussion of the measure itself. I would anticipate that when today's debate has concluded, following first reading and exposure of the bill hon. members will have at least the remainder of this week to look over it before proceeding to any further legislative steps.


Mr. Chairman, rather than calling this particular parliamentary procedure a debate on the resolution stage it might better be called shadowboxing because in effect this is what we do on much of the legislation that is introduced with an accompanying explanation so inadequate as almost to leave one in doubt as to the actual subject being dealt with. However, if one is not being informed this afternoon, either by the minister or by any details in the resolution, one certainly has been able to get a great deal of information in listening to the discussion that has gone on, in circles large and small, during the past few months. One has even been able to hear comments to the effect that the bill which will be presented to us later this day has gone through many changes, many amendments. Indeed, it may not be surprising to find written on the front of it, "Subject to change without notice." Such is the interest and such the tension and conflict which exist in discussions centring on a new broadcasting act for Canada.
As the minister remarked, there has been a great deal of discussion in committee. In March, 1967, the House of Commons broadcasting committee produced its final report, having based much of its discussion and consideration on the white paper that had been submitted the previous year. Now the minister has suggested that since there has been this great amount of examination and discussion, both in committee and among the public in general, it should be possible to move quickly with the passage of the bill through the house. However, we must not confuse discussion about many matters concerning broadcasting with the specific proposals that the government will present in its bill.
I strongly suggest that we ought to reserve the right to consider whether or not, in the
DEBATES	3175
Canadian Broadcasting Policy light of the specific provisions contained in the bill, it may be necessary to call the broadcasting committee into session again in order that it may give the bill detailed examination and, if necessary, hear witnesses who have particular knowledge and information, people who can assist the committee, parliament and the government in drafting the most responsible legislation possible. Any suggestion that we have already spent a great deal of time discussing these matters, or that we may extend the business of implementing the bill by six weeks or two months, is merely peripheral to the point at hand, which is that we are laying down fo