Order. Yesterday at the end of the question period the hon. member for Lapointe (Mr. Gregoire), rose on a question of privilege regarding a statement made in the course of a question posed by the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Thompson). At that time I asked the indulgence of hon. members to give me an opportunity to study the record. Having done so I am now in a position to make a judgment. Are hon. members now prepared to hear the ruling I now have before me?


Agreed.


Proceed.


Yesterday in addressing a question to the right hon. Prime Minister the hon. member for Red Deer referred to the conduct of the hon. member for Lapointe. Whereupon the hon. member for Lapointe requested the Chair to consider whether there was a breach of the privileges of this house when the hon. member for Red Deer made certain allegations with respect to the hon. member for Lapointe.
It would appear to the Chair that the question raised by the hon. member for Lapointe is in essence a point of order rather than a question of privilege. It seems to the Chair that the words used by the hon. member for Red Deer were unparliamentary and should not have been used under the guise of a question addressed to the ministry to formulate a charge, however indirect it may be, against another member of this house.
Our precedents are clear and of long standing. In this regard I can do no better than cite a portion of a well known ruling by Mr. Speaker Michener which is recorded at pages 583 and 584 of the Journals of Friday, June 19, 1959, which in part reads as follows:
It has been strongly urged by some members that the house should not set in motion its power to try and to judge the conduct of a member unless such member is charged with a specific offence.
It is urged further that not only must he be charged, but that he must be charged by a member of the House of Commons standing in his place.
In my view, simple justice requires that no honourable member should have to submit to investigation of his conduct by the house or a committee until he has been charged with an offence.
The proper procedure therefore is that such matters be raised by way of question of privilege followed by a motion. If the hon. member wishes to make a specific charge he will have to give consideration to the formulating of his charge on a question of privilege followed by an appropriate motion. For the time being the hon. member for Red Deer did not make a specific charge set forth in a motion. Since in my view the words used by him yesterday were unparliamentary, I would ask him to assist the Chair in maintaining the proprieties of this house and withdraw the expressions used by him yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, I listened with great respect to the ruling you have just given. As I read the question I placed yesterday I must agree that I did not raise a question of privilege or make a motion; I did not intend to do so. I merely asked the Prime Minister whether anything was being done concerning the situation regarding the hon. member for Lapointe who, as I said-
-not only has violated his oath but has placed the honour of every member of the house in question-
If such a question directed to the right hon. Prime Minister is in your opinion something that should not have been said, I will be happy to withdraw the statement on that basis. I have to agree with Your Honour, in that you have said I had made no charge. I said merely that the hon. member had violated the oath he took when he assumed his seat in this house. All of us have taken this oath, and I should like to repeat it to Your Honour. It begins:
I do swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to Her Majesty-
[DOT] (11:10 a.m.)


Order, please. The hon. member has said that he wants to refer to the oath. I think all hon. members know what
Announcement

of New Tax Increases
November 10, 1967
this oath states. The point is that the hon. member for Red Deer stated that another hon. member had violated his oath, whatever that oath may be. I suggest to the hon. member for Red Deer and all hon. members that this cannot be done without following the proper procedures. It is as simple as this. The hon. member for Red Deer knows what procedure he has to follow if he wants to pursue the matter.


I said earlier, Mr. Speaker, that I did not intend to raise this matter as a question of privilege or make a motion because I do not believe that is the responsibility of a member of the house. But I do believe that the honour of every member who has taken the oath of allegiance and assumed his seat in the house-


Order, please. I gave the hon. member for Red Deer an opportunity to make comments to the house before I gave my ruling. I suggest to him that it is not proper and that it is not in accordance with the practice of the house for an hon. member to rise after a ruling has been given and comment on the ruling. I respectfully suggest to the hon. member that the procedure is very simple. I have ruled that the words used should not have been used in that form, and I am sure the hon. member will agree that the expression should be withdrawn.


I think I did withdraw the statement, Mr. Speaker, if in your opinion the question I asked yesterday constituted a charge. On the basis of Your Honour's ruling I have no alternative but to withdraw it, but I must protest and say that I was only asking a question on a matter that I believed concerned every hon. member.


Mr. Speaker,
I have the honour to present the fifth report of the standing committee on finance, trade and economic affairs, returning to the house Bill No. S-ll, respecting Principal Life Insurance Company of Canada-


announcement of new fiscal measures
Mr. Speaker, I should like to make a brief statement concerning the fiscal position of the government which I will be discussing with the finance ministers of the provinces next week. The government has decided to introduce new fiscal measures, including temporary tax increases, later this month. The government proposes that the arrangements for introducing and debating these be the subject of consultation through the usual channels.
These tax measures will be part of an integrated program to check the inflation of prices and costs now occurring in Canada and reduce excessive pressures on our capital markets. Higher taxes in the coming year will be a better and fairer means of covering our expenditures than attempting to increase our borrowing to levels that could only be reached by inflationary methods that would increase prices further.
Prices and costs are rising at rates which clearly require some restraint through fiscal policy as well as by other means. When our proposed tax increases are combined with restrictions on government spending programs and substantial reductions in our lending programs, the government will be able to hold its over-all net cash requirements and its consequent demands on the capital market to less than $750 million in the next fiscal year apart from unforeseen changes in our exchange reserves.
This is less than half our cash requirements this year. The government has also decided that budgetary expenditures next year, apart from medicare and apart from the writing off in our accounts of Expo deficits, will be held to $10,300 million. This means that we will limit the increase in expenditures to about 4.5 per cent between this year and next, a rate of increase less than half those in recent years.
To the extent that medicare proceeds next year we will, as already indicated, introduce further taxes to meet the cost or make offsetting reductions in existing expenditure programs. We will not increase our borrowings to finance it.

-As usual, the motion is written in French and in English.


Mr. Speaker, the minister's carefully worded statement gives emphasis to the serious position in which the country finds itself at this
November 10, 1967	COMMONS
time, and gives emphasis to the remarks that have been addressed to the government from financial experts and from hon. members in the house which, I can recall, were treated with contempt not so long ago by the hon. member for Davenport (Mr. Gordon), who said everything was rosy and that he was not worried at all about the situation. This was the reaction of the former minister ol finance.
We do not know the exact nature of the tax increases, and I find the statement by the Minister of Finance to be an odd way of proceeding. The minister should have announced that he would make a budget speech on a certain night. I think this would assure the country that these matters were being attended to finally. It would have been far better had the minister stated that one week from next Monday or next Thursday he would make a budget speech, at which time he would disclose the tax increases.


May I just ask the hon. member a question. Does he not think it would be desirable, as I said in my statement, for this to be a matter of consultation among the parties in the house?


Again it is difficult for me to say, not having seen the minister's statement in advance.


The government is again
absconding from its responsibilities.


But I must say that we are in a very singular position, and on behalf of my colleagues and myself I must reserve our position until we have studied the minister's statement. May I say, for instance, that the Minister of National Health and Welfare will be absolutely astounded at the fact that additional taxes will be imposed to cover the cost of the medicare program after it has been said that this will not be done. The minister tells us that to the extent that medicare is implemented additional taxes will have to be imposed. All he is doing is agreeing with what was said at the time the medicare proposal was introduced by the government. I must say that we find ourselves this morning in an extraordinary position.


For weeks the members of this party have been urging the Minister of Finance to make a statement on what measures the government proposes to introduce to deal with the very serious inflationary situation which obtains in this country, and the minister has
DEBATES	4125
Announcement of New Tax Increases constantly delayed doing so. Now he has made a statement in this very strange and unusual manner. He has told the house that we are going to have some temporary tax increases brought down, but he did not say when. This creates a great deal of uncertainty in the country and particularly in the business community.
The minister says he is prepared to have consultation with respect to the time when this will be done. I submit that the time for consultation was before the minister made his announcement this morning, so that today he could have announced that on a specific date he would bring down a supplementary budget. We have now become accustomed to supplementary budgets. The minister brought down a budget in 1966 and then had to correct it by a mini-budget in the fall of 1966. He brought down a budget in 1967 and now apparently is going to bring down another budget to offset the damage done by the first one, and this is being done even before the first budget has passed through the house. Surely what we are witnessing is the need for action on the part of the government at the present time as they flounder around in a morass of ineptitude.
[DOT] (11:20 a.m.)
The minister has announced really two things. The first is that he is going to have to introduce some temporary tax increases. It will be remembered that the minister had one temporary tax increase before, when he introduced the 10 per cent refundable tax on corporation profits. This was later cancelled. However, a very considerable sum of money was collected and I think we have a right to know, and to know very soon, whether that money is going to be refunded in view of the inflationary effect such action would have. I think we want to know also, if there are going to be any temporary tax increases, what particular segments of the Canadian economy are going to bear the burden of these tax increases.
The other thing the minister has announced is that he wants to have some restraint on the demands on the capital market, and he is seeking to work out some arrangements with the provincial governments in this regard. I presume such arrangements will extend down to municipal governments as well. I feel there are two points which have to be kept in mind here. The first is, are all the restraints on access to the capital market to apply only to the public sector of the economy? All across this country high rise,
COMMONS DEBATES	November 10, 1967
Announcement of New Tax Increases
air conditioned office buildings are being constructed, supermarkets are being built, motels and hotels are being constructed, some of which could be postponed. There is little value in asking the various governments, federal, provincial and municipal to restrain their demands on the capital market if the private sector of the economy is to continue to invade the capital market and continue this inflationary trend.


Order. I think I have to remind the hon. member that according to the standing order the comments to be made should be brief. Perhaps the hon. member for Burnaby-Coquitlam could bear that in mind.


In view of the unusual statement which has been made by the minister, and his failure to proceed in the proper way, it seems to me that some statement is necessary. The concluding remark I wanted to make was that I hope when the minister brings down his statement he will keep in mind the fact that cutting down capital expenditures, without some restraint on the private sector, will have an effect on the employment situation in this country. Unemployment in October is up 60,000 over last year. Employment in the construction industry has fallen by 33,000 in the past month, particularly in the field of house construction. It should be kept in mind that the government should not take steps now which might have been applicable six months ago but which taken now will create further unemployment in midwinter.
I hope the government is now going to grapple with the problems with which they should have been grappling several months ago. I hope we will have this statement fairly soon. So far as we are concerned, we feel that the government's immobility and impotence has been demonstrated in the past few months and we fear the steps they are going to take now are going to be too little and too late.


Mr. Speaker, we have just heard from the Minister of Finance (Mr. Sharp) a very carefully worded announcement that is most significant for the Canadian people. On the eve of Remembrance Day Canadians will have to mark another day of mourning. On the whole, the minister announces another austerity program.
Not so long ago, on June 24, 1962, when the Conservative prime minister of the time

announced a mock austerity program, I recall hearing the Liberal members raise a hue and cry against the administration. Today, we are at the same point as we were then, which means, Mr. Speaker, that the more things change, the more they are the same. The minister announced that to remedy the situation and prevent the constant increase in the cost of living, he will levy temporary taxes. Now we know that there is nothing more permanent than what is temporary.
The minister wants to fight the rise in the cost of living by increasing the taxes, even though everyone knows that every rise in the cost of living brings about a decrease in the consumers' purchasing power. That is why, I wonder how the government hopes to ease the economic depression we are facing with such methods.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I have little hope that the situation will improve, because the government has no true solution to the present problem.


Mr. Speaker, it is difficult indeed to comment on so important a topic as the one raised by the Minister of Finance this morning. This is particularly so when one has had no advance notice of the announcement, and when the minister started off so discreetly and gently and in such a quiet voice that one realized only part way through his statement the seriousness of the problem being raised.
The government has produced a financial crisis. One wonders how much more serious it is than the indication we have been given in this most unusual notice this morning. There have been clear warnings in the past. One also wonders whether the policies this government has implemented that have brought us to a crisis in national unity are producing the massive outflow of capital from this country that has been suggested in the last few days.
I suggest that this question of a budget should be clearly and quickly discussed with the house leaders of the other parties. Perhaps the crisis has reached the point where we will need some form of national government. Maybe the government is prepared to go to the people shortly with the financial crisis as the basis for a very sudden election. There is a great deal more involved here, Mr. Speaker, than a gentle warning that taxes will rise and expenditures cut. Consultation is absolutely necessary, and I trust that this
November 10, 1967

consultation will be of a kind enabling us to ascertain more of the nature of the crisis than was indicated in the announcement of the minister this morning.


for leave to introduce a bill to amend the British North America Act, 1867 and Publication of Statutes Act (proceedings to be printed in French and English on the same page).


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, the purpose of this bill is to provide for a readily available translation of the debates, bills, records, etc. Precedence in this regard goes way back, as shown in the British Statutes at Large, volume 1, wherein the printing was in both English and French on the same pages from about 1275 during the reign of King Edward I (Statutes of Westminster) up to 1460 in the reign of King Henry VI, and previously to this in English and Latin.
The province of Quebec has been printing its statutes, bills, municipal code, etc. in both French and English on the same pages. The passage of this bill would enhance the bilingual character of parliament and of Canada.


Is it the pleasure of the house that the hon. member shall have leave to introduce the said bill?
[DOT] (11:30 a.m.)


No, Mr. Speaker. I am sorry to raise an objection, but I feel we should be careful about this matter. Enlarging the scope of the statute in the way the hon. member suggests will seriously hamper the work of those who must deal with statutes. I understand that a proposal is under consideration to print the Revised Statutes of Canada in both languages in the same volumes. Well, sir, this will add an enormous burden to the work of those who deal with statutes. Quite seriously, on that ground I suggest that this bill ought not to be given first reading at the present time.


With respect, Mr. Speaker, for a number of years the province of Quebec has printed its statutes in the way I suggest the federal publications ought to be printed, and I submit that this bill ought to be given first

Statement by Finance Minister reading. There is information to show that it will not cost the government more money to print this matter in French and English in one volume than to print it in both languages under separate covers. I submit that there will be no added expenditure if the matter is placed under one cover.


Order, please. The hon. member for Winnipeg South Centre has raised an interesting point. Obviously a measure cannot be moved by a private member if it includes a money provision. I think it might be well to leave the matter in abeyance. I might look more closely at the bill before it is submitted to the house for consideration.


the first reading of Bill No. S-19 (Senate) entitled: "An Act respecting the boundary between the Province of British Columbia and the Yukon and Northwest Territories".
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of standing order 26 I beg leave to move the adjournment of the house for the purpose of discussing a matter of definite and urgent public importance, namely the indication of the serious national financial crisis contained in the statement made a few minutes ago by the Minister of Finance and the impropriety of his announcing tax increases in this manner. We have just heard-


Order, please. The hon. member may wish to address the Chair and house on the question of urgency of debate. I expect the hon. member realizes that he may have a difficult hurdle to overcome because in the minister's announcement provision
4128	COMMONS DEBATES	November 10, 1967
Statement by Finance Minister
was made for the matter to be considered time. All Canadians have the right to know next week.	what is in the minister's mind.


Oh, oh.


Order, please. The hon. member might address the Chair on that point.


In my opinion the urgency of the matter is this. The Minister of Finance has taken the extraordinary step of standing up, after motions had been called, and announcing in the House of Commons that additional taxes are to be imposed on the Canadian people without going into details about when they are to be imposed and what they are. That announcement was made during a day when the markets are open for business.


Hear, hear.


The minister thereby has created chaos in the economy of this country. That chaos will persist until the minister gives complete details of his intentions, in what areas he proposes to raise taxes and by how much he is to raise taxes. Yet again he is to burden the taxpayer of this country with additional taxes, and the urgency of the matter is so great that we ought to hear complete details of his intentions.
The minister has left the matter hanging; it will remain hanging over the week end and our people will be left wondering what the minister has in mind. His statement was a serious blow to all Canadians in this country. That is the urgent aspect, and that is why the matter ought to be debated at this time. The people of Canada have the right to know what is in store for them. Has the minister's announcement been brought about because of bankruptcy facing this country? Canadians are entitled to know whether their country is bankrupt. They are entitled to know what is behind the government's action which will add to their burdens. The taxpayers of this country already are overburdened.


The minister should resign.


He has a responsibility to
explain what is happening.


He should resign.


The minister has a responsibility to explain, particularly since the week end lies ahead and since the markets are open now. Unless there is an explanation, chaos will reign. For all our sakes as well as for the minister's, Your Honour ought to give us an opportunity to discuss this matter at this


Mr. Speaker, I support this motion, and I submit that the matter is urgent. In my opinion the Minister of Finance has said either too much or too little. For the minister to rise on motions and tell the house and country that taxes are to be increased without saying what that increase will be, and without giving us any idea of what supplementary measures will accompany such an increase in taxation, is bound to cause widespread confusion.
Since the minister made his statement at a time of day when the markets are open, when general consternation will be caused among those trading in stocks and bonds, we may take it that something is seriously wrong. The minister has not told us enough, or he has told us too much. Had the minister wanted to introduce a measure to raise taxes surely he would have consulted with the opposition parties and arranged for time to be set aside for its introduction. A statement might have been made then.
The minister has not done that. For reasons best known to himself he rose on motions and told the house and country that taxes are to be increased. The public, I think, has a right to a much fuller explanation from the minister. Only if Your Honour allows the matter to be debated can the minister make a full statement to the house and clarify what has happened. Only in that way can the question he has raised in the minds of hon. members and of the Canadian people generally be answered.


I rise briefly, Mr. Speaker, to support the motion for adjournment of debate. The afternoon is short and the business before the house cannot compare in importance with financial crisis that the Minister of Finance suggested exists this morning. I feel it is important for us to hear more from him on this matter. Were the other business adjourned he would have an opportunity to inform us.


Mr. Speaker, there can be no question, I am sure, but that we are dealing with an urgent situation. On the question of urgency of debate, may I direct Your Honour's attention to the wording of the motion moved by the Leader of the Opposition. You will note, sir, that the motion does not seek to discuss the statement
November 10, 1967

of the Minister of Finance. It has been said that we shall have an opportunity to discuss it, although the time is not specified. But that is not the point of the motion. The motion seeks to discuss the indications of the serious national financial crisis contained in the minister's statement, which was made on motions, as well as the impropriety of making at this time and in this manner a statement which forecasts an increase of taxes. Those two matters are urgent and they ought to be discussed now.
It is urgent to discuss them so the confusion and consternation the minister's statement will have already created in the financial markets of this country may be arrested. The minister cannot fob us off by saying "You will have an opportunity next week, perhaps, to discuss my tax proposals." A discussion then will not prevent the consternation presently felt in the financial markets and will not deal with the urgency of that matter. A debate now will not give the minister a chance to retrieve himself-he cannot do that-but it will enable us to minimize the chaos that his statement, made at this time and in this manner, undoubtedly has created.
[DOT] (11:40 a.m.)
The only way that can be done, in my submission, is by the government through the minister telling the house what measures are proposed, and giving us the precise background in order that the country and the financial markets will know what the situation is, and in order that the reaction of the markets and the country may be intelligently geared to the actual situation and not to the speculation which is bound to exist if there is not an explanation. In this way the house can hold the minister and the government accountable for this unprecedented conduct in announcing tax increases at this time and in this manner, seeking to leave things in confusion and uncertainty until, in the government's good time, it is prepared to let parliament discuss the proposed measures.
For these reasons it is urgent to debate this now, and this urgency cannot be met by allowing the minister to calmly come along and say we can discuss this next Thursday night. The implications for the country are too serious to allow that course to be followed. The situation can only be met by a debate at this time, today and now.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps the statement I have made here today will make it evident why the
Statement by Finance Minister Prime Minister asked some of his colleagues to stay around on this occasion.


Is that the only reason?


Yes, the only reason. It has been urged by speakers on the other side that somehow in making this statement today I have produced chaos, as they say, in the financial markets, and that by announcing I am going to be bringing further financial measures before this house I have somehow broken all the precedents and somehow started a new wave of uncertainty in the market.
Hon. gentlemen opposite know this is not true. Every time I make an announcement that I intend to bring down a budget on a particular day exactly the same sort of situation is created. Moreover, in respect of the suggestion that it is unprecedented, for me to announce an intention to ask for further revenues, let me point out to hon. members opposite and yourself, sir, that I have done this on at least one occasion during the time I have been the Minister of Finance, and that was when I said I intended to bring in measures to finance the supplement to the old age pension. These are specious arguments.
May I also add that I regret very much that hon. members opposite on such an occasion should go out of their way to create a feeling of uncertainty and a lack of confidence that my statement was intended to offset-


Oh, oh.


Hon. members opposite have been asking me day after day for weeks to make a more definite statement. Now that I have done so they object and say I am creating increased uncertainty. Finally, Mr. Speaker, without straying from the point of urgency-


You have already
strayed.


The reason I said the government proposes that the arrangements for consideration of these measures should be a matter of consultation is that, as the house knows, we are already in the committee of ways and means. Therefore the procedure can be associated with an ordinary budget or otherwise. There is no uncertainty on the part of the government as to timing; there will be plenty of opportunity for these measures to be discussed.
November 10, 1967

Statement by Finance Minister


Mr. Speaker, the minister has not answered the question as to the urgency of debate; he has tried to justify his action. I dispute his statement that he has not created confusion. It is absolutely urgent that we discuss this matter at this time, whether or not there will be an opportunity to discuss it in the future as a result of negotiations. That is very indefinite; we do not know when or under what circumstances there will be an opportunity to debate the question which has now arisen.
I urge upon Your Honour that this whole matter, having arisen as a result of the minister's statement on motions at a time when the markets are open, should be discussed now. The fact that these questions will be discussed with representatives of the provinces will in itself occasion further leaks. The place where announcements of this kind should be discussed is in this house itself. These matters must be debated here. The propriety of this matter and the manner in which this has been done is doubtful. The markets are now open and this sort of action will allow all sorts of things to take place. This action is quite wrong. In light of other matters now before the house, which we must debate at this time, I urge upon Your Honour to allow this motion.


Mr. Speaker, I must say that the conduct of the government today would make a speechless member rise in his place.


Hear, hear.


I have never seen the like of this. I doubt whether there is another example of this anywhere. The government has gone from blunder to blunder. It now says, as a result of blunders to date, parliament is not now to have the right to discuss what this government has in mind. The minister says we will have an opportunity, possibly next week, after consultation with members of the opposition, to debate this matter. What specious nonsense is that?
The minister states that from time to time in the past when he announced his intention to bring down a budget, there was naturally a feeling of uncertainty in the country, but that cannot be compared with the present situation. Is what has taken place today the result of something that occurred in the last few hours to bring this government to its senses? The government refuses to tell the people of Canada what has taken place.


The action of the government today will bring about results that one can only measure in imagination unless there is a discussion to clarify the situation. If the government knows where it is going it should let parliament know. Silence now can only lead to uncertainty, the financial consequences of which are bound to be something we have not seen in this country, before. Why does the government not come clean and give us the facts? Why does the minister say that things which have taken place recently make necessary an increase in taxation to meet a situation which has been developing and expanding at a galloping rate for the last year? Why do we have this silence?
I suggest to the government and to you, sir, that this is an occasion when there must be a debate or the results will be damaging to our country to a degree unprecedented in proportion.
[DOT] (11:50 a.m.)
Then the minister has the colossal nerve to say the opposition is to blame. We are to blame for daring to ask this government for information. The minister has opened the door; he has drawn back the curtain. Everybody has known that the government has been in difficulties for the last six months, yet the minister has gone his way. Today he announces that next week or some time in the future he is going to let parliament and the people in on the information they have the right to have today.
If ever there was urgency of debate, sir, it is now. There should be no delay until next week in giving this house the information the minister must have. Did the crisis develop while some ministers were almost en route and in flight? They were called home. They are now here. There can be no delay until next week.
What has happened? Why cannot the minister give us today the story of what has taken place in the last few hours which apparently impels him pell-mell to cast parliamentary government overboard? He must know now. We have the right to this information, Mr. Speaker. If ever there was a case made out not only of urgency but urgency of debate, it is this. Wait four or five more days and this country will be in a turmoil.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, after listening to the former prime minister of this country I shall be very brief. There are two thoughts in connection with
November 10, 19G7

urgency of debate that I wish to put before the house. The first is that last week-this is what makes the matter even more urgent- the Minister of Finance was in the city of Calgary and told the Young Liberal Association that he would have to increase taxes. So he actually announced his mini-budget in Calgary. Second, this announcement was made on motions, and Your Honour has ruled on many occasions that we cannot debate matters on motions. The only way we can debate this matter, as the former prime minister said, is by doing it today, because it is an urgent matter and it is imperative that we debate it now.
I said the same thing yesterday when the government reopened the discussion we had in the house 18 months ago. These are the reasons why this matter is urgent; the highest interest rates in 40 years, no housing, the highest cost of living, loss of markets-


Order, please. I wonder
whether the hon. member is not straying quite a distance from the point. I have the impression that after all the speeches have been made there will be nothing for the Chair to consider because we will then have had a debate.


I appreciate what Your Honour has said, but I mention these problems to show how urgent the matter really is. The fact that the Minister of Finance rose and debated it shows that he himself believes a debate should take place today.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to bring the attention of the house back to the rules of the house. Citation 100 of Beauchesne states very clearly that urgency does not apply to the matter itself but means urgency of debate, when the ordinary opportunities provided by the rules of the house do not permit the subject to be debated. Clearly the statement of the Minister of Finance tells us that an opportunity will be provided for debate. The minister's statement said in part "The government. has decided to introduce new fiscal measures, including temporary tax increases, later this month."
I am reinforced in that argument by paragraph 8 of citation 100 which says it is not contemplated "that a question of very wide scope, which would demand legislation to deal with it in any effective manner, should be the subject of discussion on a motion for the adjournment of the house" under standing order 26.
Statement by Finance Minister
Again, Mr. Speaker, the minister has indicated that legislative action will be taken. I wish to state plainly, shortly and simply that the motion moved by the hon. member for Ontario does not come within the ambit of citation 100.


Mr. Speaker, following the last intervention, I would like also to give my opinion on the urgency of debate.
I think that it would be more urgent to discuss the statement made a few minutes ago by the Minister of Finance and Receiver General (Mr. Sharp) than to pursue the debate on the abolition of the death penalty. Some people are anxious to spare some criminals, but I am convinced that the situation of the consumers, of the Canadian public, is more worthy of immediate attention than that of the criminals.
As for the urgency of the matter, I wonder, Mr. Speaker, whether it would not be more urgent for the Prime Minister himself to give his own resignation and that of his cabinet, and to call a general election as soon as possible, so that the matter can be discussed before the whole Canadian people. I think that would be more urgent than anything else.


Mr. Speaker, there are just two points I should like to make in support of our contention that there is urgency of debate on this issue. One of the points I wish to make has been brought to the attention of the house by the statement the Minister of Finance made when he spoke in this debate. I took it, when he said in his statement on motions that there would be discussion among the house leaders as to the time to debate these matters, that this meant that as house leaders we would consider just that, namely the time when there would be a budget debate as provided by the rules of the house.
But the minister said in his second statement that what he had in mind was that the house leaders might discuss whether a debate is necessary at all in view of the fact that we are already in committee of ways and means on the resolutions presented last June. Mr. Speaker, do you see what is being proposed? It is being proposed that the House of Commons, with Mr. Speaker in the chair, may not have a chance at all to debate this set of
4132	COMMONS
Statement by Finance Minister proposals. The minister's hope is that the house leaders will agree that since we are in committee of ways and means, we will just stay there and deal with the measures that he places before us.
The Solicitor General just now said he thought this motion was out of order because the Minister of Finance had already announced that there would be an opportunity to debate the measure. I suggest the Minister of Finance has made it very clear that he does not want the House of Commons, with Mr. Speaker in the chair, to have a chance to discuss this matter at all. That being the case, it seems to me we are entitled to have this discussion today.
I agree with those who have stressed the urgency of the matter because of the unsettling effect of this announcement, and all that; but I add one other point. Indeed, I said there were just two points that I wanted to make. I gather that the Minister of Finance, when he meets with the finance ministers of the provinces, is not going to sit there like a bump on a log; he is going to tell them something. I suggest that the first responsibility of a minister is to parliament, and he should be telling us before he tells the provinces.
For these two reasons, because we have not been guaranteed a debate at all on this measure with the Speaker in the chair and because we have the right as parliament to have information on this matter from the Minister of Finance before he meets with the provinces, we ought to have this debate today.


Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. I wonder if it is the wish of hon. members that we have further contributions to the debate. It is not my intention to cut off hon. members, but I see four or five members have indicated their intention of taking part in this procedural debate and I doubt whether new arguments can be advanced. But again, I do not wish to place myself in the position where it can be suggested that I have cut off debate unduly.


I will take just about one minute, Mr. Speaker.


The hon. member for
Lapointe.

DEBATES	November 10. 1967
[DOT] (12 noon)


Mr. Speaker, I simply want to put forward two arguments in support of the urgency of the debate.
The hon. Minister of Finance (Mr. Sharp) himself saw fit to mention that the right, hon. Prime Minister has asked his ministers to remain in Ottawa for the week-end on account of the announcement which the minister has just made. If the right hon. Prime Minister thinks it urgent and necessary to ask all the ministers to remain here all weekend, Mr. Speaker, the situation must be serious indeed. The whole matter must be extremely urgent, and the financial situation in the country must be exceedingly precarious if 22 ministers are ordered to remain in Ottawa on account of that statement.
Thus, the urgency of dealing with the economic and financial situation in Canada is made evident by the fact that, as in wartime or during very extreme and momentous circumstances, the whole cabinet is ordered to remain in Ottawa. The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister themselves have indicated the urgency of the matter; if the situation is that critical, it is just as urgent that parliament should know what is in store.
I, for one, should like to know before the week-end what disasters await us, since all the ministers have to remain in Ottawa during the week-end. What is going to happen?
You can imagine the rumours that will spread around the country, when it is known that the cabinet will stay here to consider a very serious situation, of which parliament has no inkling. This adds to the urgency of the debate today. If not, all the ministers would not be ordered to stay here, like a war-time cabinet.
Mr. Speaker, you realize that the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister themselves have stressed the urgency and the seriousness of the problem. What can be expected during the week-end? The cabinet will sit all through the week-end. Why? Because the situation is serious and disastrous; what cataclysm is in store for us? As you can see, Mr. Speaker, a debate is urgent, because the cabinet itself recognizes it, since all the ministers have to stay here.
The second point I wanted to make is that never before in our history has a Minister of Finance taken pleasure in allowing the anxiety caused by tax increases to persist.
November 10, 19B7

Now, the present minister is doing just that. He announces it, then he proceeds to do it, in two stages. A tax increase being a painful operation, it should be sufficient to announce it once, when it becomes effective. It seems that the minister is indulging in masochism and tries to harm himself by first announcing an increase in taxes and then increasing them.
If the minister deemed it advisable to announce the tax increase in two stages, instead of one, it is that he recognizes the situation as serious. Mr. Speaker, as all businessman in Canada will see it immediately he wants to reassure the creditors of the present government that funds will increase, thanks to new taxes. The Minister of Finance is besieged by creditors, but he cannot pay. So, he says: We will raise taxes, and to indicate his intentions, he announced those tax increases today in order to reassure the government's creditors.
This matter has become urgent, to the point that it should, undoubtedly, be debated no later than today.


I should like to remind the hon. members that this discussion has now lasted nearly an hour. I now recognize the hon. member for Northumberland.
{English}


Mr. Speaker, there are two reasons why this matter must be debated today, and both have to do with the financial stability of this country. The fact that the Minister of Finance has announced on the spur of the moment that he must raise taxes has greatly alarmed those people who are active in the financial affairs of the country. In my view the fact that he is not going to explain in the near future why he intends to bring in these measures will cause irreparable damage. He must seize the opportunity to do so today, take the country into his confidence, and explain to us why he must introduce these measures and what are the circumstances forcing him to do so.
The second reason for debating this matter today is, as the minister stated, that he first intends to discuss these matters with the provinces. He will discuss with them what taxes he intends to impose. We all know that when a federal-provincial conference is held in Ottawa there are immediate and simultaneous leaks. It has been the case previously that as soon as those discussing these
Statement by Finance Minister matters have left the meeting room, information has been leaked to the press and these leaks have received widespread publicity.
This method of dealing with a matter of this urgency is not good enough. For these two reasons, and for the many others that were mentioned today, a debate on this subject must take place right now in the interests of this country.


Mr. Speaker, I will only speak for a moment. I would like to call the attention of the house to citation 100 (2). This is in answer to the plea made by the Solicitor General. The citation reads as follows:
The "definite matter of urgent public importance", for the discussion of which the adjournment of the House may be moved under Standing Order 26, must be so pressing that public interest will suffer if it is not given immediate attention.
Paragraph 3 of the same citation reads:
"Urgency" within this rule does not apply to the matter itself, but it means "urgency of debate", when the ordinary opportunities provided by the rules of the House do not permit the subject to be brought on early enough and public interest demands that discussion take place immediately.
The only decision you have to make, Mr. Speaker, is whether or not the public is going to suffer.


I thank hon. members for their helpful contributions. I believe I must express the thought, which I stated a moment ago, that the discussion we have had centred on whether we should have a debate, and hon. members were to advise the Chair. I have the feeling that many of the contributions, perhaps rightly so in view of the importance of the matter, dealt not only with the strict procedural point before the house but also with the substance of the matter. I feel that a number of hon. members who took part in the debate did have an opportunity to express their views about the substance of the situation before us.
Hon. members know that under standing order 26 adjournment motions should not be accepted except in very extreme circumstances. Some hon. members might consider that this is the type of circumstance which would require such a motion to be granted, but I have my doubts about it. Our parliamentary system is based on the premise that the business of the house is dictated from day to day by the government. It is the government's responsibility to bring down
4134	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry the business which they feel should be considered and debated by the house. As I have said, in my humble opinion there would be a great deal of disorder and disorganization if all the motions for adjournment that are made every week were granted.
The hon. member for Prince Albert said that there will be serious results from the minister's announcement on motions. On the other hand some hon. members, particularly the hon. member for Bow River, indicated that the subject matter of the minister's announcement has been discussed before. To my mind this throws some doubt on the question of urgency of debate today.
In looking over the specific motion submitted to the Chair by the Leader of the Opposition, it seems to me that there is one real point in it which has to be considered by the Chair, namely, whether the house should be adjourned for the purpose of discussing the propriety of the minister making his statement on motions at this time. I think this is a very relevant point and of course it becomes a matter of opinion. Essentially it is a motion of censure against the minister. As hon. members know, according to the rules this type of motion can only be proposed by way of a substantive motion.
[DOT] (12:10 p.m.)
My original statement that there will be an early opportunity to discuss this subject matter did not appear to be received with great enthusiasm by some hon. members. However, I am afraid I have to repeat it and go to citation No. 100, paragraph 3 of Beauchesne, fourth edition, which states that this kind of motion should be granted only when there will not be an early opportunity for debate. It is extremely difficult for me to know when this will be-Monday, perhaps Tuesday or later on. I find it difficult to judge. On the other hand, I have to interpret the statement as indicating that there will be an early opportunity to decide the matter raised in the motion of the Leader of the Opposition. As to the second part which deals with the propriety of the minister making a statement on motions at this time I have to rule that this is essentially a censure motion which can only be made in the usual way by substantive motion.


request for details of proposed
FISCAL MEASURES On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Finance a 
DEBATES	November 10, 1967
question in the light of reports which have already come in as to the serious consequences, in the financial markets of Canada, of the statement just made by the minister in