Mr. Speaker, in accordance with the standing order, I gave you notice this morning of my intention, at the opening of this sitting, to raise a question of privilege affecting parliament in general. So that my question of privilege may be well understood, I should like to quote two excerpts from the Globe and Mail of October 18 last as follows-

A strongly worded criticism of government monetary and fiscal policy by Neil J. McKinnon, chairman of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, was delivered yesterday to an international conference of the Financial Executive Institute.

Later, Mr. McKinnon is quoted verbatim and I quote:

It is not too much to say that government deficit spending, combined with a permissive monetary policy that allows continuous inflation really involve a massive swindle-a swindle perpetrated on the great majority of the populace who are least able to protect themselves against the consequences.

[DOT] (2:40 p.m.)
I have clippings from several newspapers. I shall simply quote one sentence from he Devoir of the same day to place on the record a French translation of this text which I deem objectionable and defamatory to parliament in general. It is translated as follows in Le Devoir:
-en fait, une gigantesque duperie, duperie com-mise contre la majeure partie de la population.
Well, Mr. Speaker, I say that if the government can be accused of such flagrant dishonesty, this intimates that the entire membership of the house is accessory to this dishonesy, that they have not protested at the
proper time. That is where I claim there is a breach of the privileges of all members who are entitled to their good reputation and to see that their integrity is not lightly attacked. If I may be allowed, Mr. Speaker, I shall attempt by a few brief remarks, to prove my point.
First-


Order. I invite the hon. member to state as quickly as possible the question of privilege of which he gave me notice. I have had the opportunity to study it and I shall be in a position to make a ruling very quickly. I ask the hon. member to co-operate by stating his question of privilege as briefly as possible.


Mr. Speaker, I shall try to exercise restraint and I promise you that it will not take me very long, but I feel that this is a matter which involves the honour of all hon. members. Therefore I think that it is worth taking two or three minutes to state my argument.
I say that the seriousness of that accusation of dishonesty, swindle, by the government is due, first of all, to the high position held by the person who made it. Coming from a mere nobody, I would suggest that we forget about it, but it was made by the president of a bank who usually does not talk through his hat, who prepares his statements or has them prepared by qualified people and who reads them carefully. Therefore, he did not overlook the word. I say further that the words he chose are of a very great consequence, since in the Oxford dictionary, I read this:

The Oxford dictionary defines swindle as:
An act of swindling: a fradulent transaction or scheme; a cheat, fraud, imposition.

The Larousse dictionary gives as synonyms of "duperie":
escroquerie, fourberie, supercherie, tromperie.
It is unquestionably a serious charge. Moreover, the formal character of the occasion, since he was speaking before an outside

October 25, 1967
Question of Privilege
organisation-namely the International Institute of Finance Officers-makes the charge even more serious and casts even greater doubts upon the integrity of all members of parliament, who would be accused of collusion in such an odious action. The possible repercussions of the whole thing must be kept in mind.
Mr. Speaker, if the government is guilty of such a vile action, it no longer deserves the confidence of the house and I cannot imagine any member who would still be willing to put his trust in it. If not, then Mr. MacKinnon should agree to explain or correct his statement which may have gone beyond his thoughts. And that is why I move, seconded by Mr. Latulippe, that:
The committee on finance, trade and economic affairs, or any other committee empowered to deal with the matter, should meet as soon as possible to summon Mr. Neil J. MacKinnon, president of the Imperial Bank of Commerce, and to enjoin him to justify and specify the charges he made against the government and indirectly against parliament as a whole in a speech delivered at an international conference of the Financial Executives Institute when he said:
And here I quote him verbatim.
Mr. Speaker, I am sending you copies in French and in English of those two documents and I repeat that, in my opinion, this is a serious attack against the integrity and honesty of parliament as a whole which finds itself accused of complicity in a deliberately fraudulent action, which would not be so otherwise, since there is talk of swindle and trickery.


Order. I do not think that the hon. member's grievance-and I insist on the word "grievance"-is acceptable as a question of privilege. The hon. member is well aware of the provisions of section 110 of Beauchesne's fourth edition, which I quote:
Any libel reflecting upon any member of the house for or relating to his service therein was a high violation of the rights and privileges of the house. But to constitute a breach of privilege, a libel upon a member must concern his character or conduct in his capacity as a member and the conduct or language on which the libel is based must be actions performed or words uttered in the actual transaction of the business of the house.
The remarks complained of by the hon. member relate more particularly to the government, in my opinion, than to the personal conduct of members in the transaction of their business and in their responsibilities in the house. For that reason, I do not think that this question is acceptable and that the motion presented by the member for Trois-Rivieres can be accepted.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. May I add a word?
I find it a little strange that when the integrity and honesty of all the hon. members are concerned-


Order. The hon. member cannot discuss a ruling of the Chair on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I rose on a question of privilege in order to point out that the French staff in the press gallery is numerically deficient.
There are only two French speaking reporters out of a total of more than 20, which affects the privileges of the members of this house in the following way. All too often, newspaper reports of speeches made in French in the house are based on a translation which is not always faithful as to the basic content of the speech.
The purpose of my question of privilege is to urge the authorities concerned to correct a hardly acceptable anomaly and to increase the French services of the Canadian Press.


Order. There is obviously no question of privilege there. The hon. member recognizes it himself, I am sure, since he did not see fit to follow up his intervention with a motion. May I remind him of the provisions of citation 113 of Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms, fourth edition:
Members often raise so-called "questions of privilege" on matters which should be dealt with as personal explanations or corrections, either in the debates or the proceedings of the house. A question of privilege ought rarely to come up in parliament.


May I bring to the attention of hon. members the presence in the Speaker's gallery of a very distinguished delegation of Polish parliamentarians. For the last week these distinguished colleagues have been our guests in Canada while visiting various parts of the country. It is my hope, and I am sure the hope of all members of the house, that our visiting colleagues will have received in Canada the same warm hospitality which
October 25, 1967

was extended to our own delegation when it journeyed to Poland last year.


Hear, hear.


I thank the head of the delegation, Mr. Wycech, a high dignitary of the Seym, for his visit to the parliament of Canada, and I wish him and his colleagues a happy return to Poland.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I beg leave to table in French and English texts of the international grains arrangement, 1967, concluded in Rome on August 18, 1967. It is the intention to place this arrangement before parliament at the appropriate time for approval.


Does the hon. minister have leave to table the document?


Agreed.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-171, to amend the Criminal Code (air and water pollution).
He said: Mr. Speaker, this bill would make it a crime to release pollutants into the atmosphere or public waterways of Canada which cause or are capable of causing undue harm to the health of persons. The new paragraphs would fall under the section dealing with criminal negligence.
This was prompted by the recent information to the effect that pollution in our large cities, in particular Montreal, has increased to extremely dangerous levels. This is one attempt to deal with the problem. I might say, Mr. Speaker, that this bill was prepared and submitted before the debate which started in this house on Monday.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
Questions


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Does the government of Canada receive a monthly trade statistic return from the O.E.C.D.?
2.	On the basis of O.E.C.D. trade statistics and any other information available to the government for the period January 1. 1967, to September 1, 1967, what has been the percentage increase in exports from Germany, France, Japan, E.E.C. as a whole, E.F.T.A. as a whole, Spain, Italy, The Netherlands and the United States to Rhodesia as compared to the period January 1, 1966, to September 1, 1966?
3.	Has the government of Canada made representations to the governments of France, The Netherlands and Japan with particular reference to the large increase in exports of motor vehicles to Rhodesia?


1. Yes.
2.	The following data were taken from the O.E.C.D. trade statistics, series A, July 1967 and supplement August 1967, which are the most recent figures available on a comparable basis.
Exports (f.o.b.) by selected countries to Rhodesia ($U.S. million)
January-May Absolute
1966	1967	changeWest Germany	3.8	5.5	+ 1.7France	1.2	2.0	+ -8Italy	2.1	.7	- 1.4Netherlands	1.8	1.9	+ -1Total E.E.C.	10.5	10.8	+ .3E.F.T.A.	6.8	3.4	-3.4Spain	.1	-	- .1Japan	3.2	4.6	+ 1.4U.S.A.	3.8	2.1	-1.7
3. No.


1.	How much was spent (a) in the Northwest Territories (b) in the Yukon, for the construction or improvement of airfields during the years 1965-66 and 1966-67?
2.	What sum has been set aside to be spent on the same items during the year 1967-68?


In so far as the Department of Transport is concerned:
1.	1965-66	1966-67
(a)	Northwest Territories $897,296 $345,426
(b)	Yukon	$178,222	$401,447
Questions

October 25, 1967
2.	1967-68
(a)	Northwest Territories $1,226,650
(b)	Yukon	$ 113,600
In so tar as the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development is concerned:
1.	(a)	1965-66	$8,200.00
1966-67	Nil
(b)	1965-66	Nil
1966-67	Nil
2.	The following provision has been made in vote 20 of the estimates for 1967-68:
Contribution of 50 per cent of the cost of establishing or improving airstrips for development purposes, Northwest Territories, $50,000.
Contribution of 50 per cent of the cost of establishing or improving airstrips for development purposes, Yukon Territory, $50,000.


Question No. 389-Mr. Maiher:
1.	How many (a) silent (b) French (c) English films were destroyed in the fire of the N.F.B. stores in Beaconsfield, Quebec, during the summer of 1967?
2.	What is the estimated value of the loss?
3.	Are any other films and records being kept in non-fireproof facilities?


1. National Film Board films lost in Beaconsfield fire: (a) silent, none; (b) French, 27; (c) English, 535.
2.	Estimated value when new, 1940-50, $4,800,000.
3.	No other National Film Board master films are being stored in non-fireproof facilities.


Question No. 447
1.	What is the estimated per capita cost of health care in Canada (medical and surgical treatment)?
2.	To the government's knowledge, what is the per capita cost of health care, medical and surgical treatment, in each of Canada's provinces?
1.	In 1966, how many of the top 50 advertising firms on Canadian television were subsidiaries of United States concerns?
2.	How many were wholly owned Canadian companies?


1 and 2. I am informed by the C.B.C. that available statistics for the Canadian television industry as a whole show 35 of the top 50 advertising firms in 1966 as subsidiaries of United States parent companies. Of the remaining 15, nine are listed as Canadian owned and six are foreign owned.


1.	Are plywood foundations, as tested during research projects Mark III and Mark IV of the N.A.H.C., recognized and approved by C.M.H.C.?
2.	Have loans been granted or guaranteed by C.M.H.C. for construction of houses resting on foundation walls made of plywood?


1. Plywood foundations for houses are not recognized nor approved by Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation.
2. To facilitate field testing, the corporation has agreed to make loans on a limited small number of houses with treated wood and plywood foundations; to date two loans have been approved.


1. $27.85. The estimated per capita costs are based upon payments made to physicians engaged primarily in private fee practice. Payments to physicians providing personal health care services on a salaried basis are excluded except for an estimate of the earnings of physicians in Newfoundland employed under the Cottage Hospital Medical Service and by subsidized voluntary plans.
Newfoundland	$11.75
Prince Edward Island	17.06
Nova Scotia	20.33
New Brunswick	17.59
Quebec	22.99
Ontario	33.43
Manitoba	28.69
Saskatchewan	27.78
Alberta	26.57
British Columbia	34.21
Yukon and Northwest	
Territories	13.21


How many Yukon residents claimed unemployment insurance benefits for each of the months in 1966 and for each of the months of January to September inclusive in 1967?

October 25, 1967


The number of claimants for unemployment insurance benefit at the end of each month in 1966 was as follows:
January	383
February	352
March	301
April	229
May	96
June	68
July	45
August	32
September	32
The commission's Whitehorse local office was closed in September, 1966 and since that date no individual statistics are available with respect to claims made by Yukon residents.


1.	Is the Department of National Defence purchasing the C-141 Lockheed transport aircraft and, if so (a) how many are being purchased (b) what will be the total cost of these aircraft?
2.	Will the C-141 be used as a tanker for escorting the CF-5 on trans-Atlantic flights and, if so, will it have to be converted for this purpose and at what additional cost?
3.	When is it anticipated the C-141 will go into service?


1. Yes, subject to negotiation of a satisfactory contract; (a) four; (b) not available pending completion of contractual negotiations.
2.	Yes, the specifications include a removable inflight refuelling installation.
3.	Approximately 1970.


1.	Has the government received a recent request from the Canadian Dairy Council recommending the setting up of a school milk program?
2.	If so, what response has the government made to the request?


1. No.
2. Not applicable.


1. What has been the revenue from the Riding Mountain national park golf course each year since 1960?
Questions
2. What have been the expenditures on maintenance over the same period?


In so far
as the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development is concerned the answers are as follows: 1. Revenue: 1960, $31,900; 1961, $43,400; 1962, $41,700; 1963, $42,800; 1964, $43,500; 1965, 43,000; 1966, $46,900; 1967, $48,600.
2. Maintenance costs: 1960, $27,540; 1961, $31,205; 1962, $36,621; 1963, $34,487; 1964, $41,525; 1965, $41,351; 1966, $50,647; 1967, $45,559-to October 15.


1.	Has the government given any consideration to the establishment of a social science research council to promote and support research in the social sciences?
2.	If so, what are the intentions of the government in this respect?
3.	Has the attention of the government been drawn to the report of the committee on social studies under the chairmanship of Lord Heyworth in the United Kingdom?
4.	If so, what consideration has been given to the general applicability to Canada of the principal conclusions and recommendations in this report?


1. The government has been giving continuing consideration to the support of research in the social sciences and to promotion of more effective co-operation between government and non-government interests which are concerned. Both experience abroad, including the Heyworth report, and discussions with representatives of voluntary organizations form a part of this consideration.
2, 3 and 4. Answered by part 1.


1.	How many persons are receiving old age pensions (a) in Canada (b) in each province?
2.	How many of the pensioners are receiving the supplement of $30 per month (a) in Canada (b) in each province?
3.	How many are receiving only a portion of this supplement (a) in Canada (b) in each province?


1. Number of persons receiving Old Age Security as of August 31,
346$

October 25, 1967
Questions	
1967: (a) In Canada, 1,241,261	; (b) In each
province:	
Newfoundland	23,518
Prince Edward Island	9,734
Nova Scotia	54,944
New Brunswick	40,973
Quebec	278,832
Ontario	457,373
Manitoba	71,936
Saskatchewan	71,254
Alberta	83,073
British Columbia	148,723
Northwest Territories	565
Yukon	336
2. Number of pensioners	receiving the
Guaranteed Income Supplement in the	
amount of $30.00 per month,	as of August
31, 1967: (a) In Canada, 435,284; (b) In each	
province:	
Newfoundland	16,182
Prince Edward Island	4,971
Nova Scotia	24,614
New Brunswick	19,420
Quebec	121,262
Ontario	126,492
Manitoba	24,664
Saskatchewan	22,270
Alberta	28,904
British Columbia	45,888
Northwest Territories	437
Yukon	180
3. Number of persons	receiving the
Guaranteed Income Supplement in amounts	
less than $30.00 a month, as	of August 31,
1967: (a) In Canada, 265,967; (b) In each	
province:	
Newfoundland	3,527
Prince Edward Island	2,397
Nova Scotia	12,383
New Brunswick	7,939
Quebec	55,644
Ontario	97,703
Manitoba	17,541
Saskatchewan	17,214
Alberta	19,296
British Columbia	32,237
Northwest Territories	36
Yukon	50


1.	What was the total number of visitors to all of Canada's national parks in 1966?
2.	What was the comparable figure for the years 1956 and 1961?

3.	Is consideration being given to geographical extension of national parks at the present time?
4.	If not, for what reason?
5.	If so, what is the present status of such consideration?


In so
far as the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development is concerned the answers are as follows: 1. As visitor attendance is recorded on the fiscal year, the period which would include the 1966 vacation season is 1966-67, when there were 11,367,912 visitors.
2.	Similarly, for 1956-57 there were 3,529,976, and in 1961-62 there were 5,491,663 visitors.
3.	Yes. Negotiations are under way with a number of provinces for the establishment of new national parks.
4.	N/A.
5.	These negotiations are continuing.


What are the current pay schedules for officers and crews of government ships operating on the west coast, the lake area, and the east coast?
Return tabled.


Mr. Speaker, 1 should like to rise on a point of order, and I address my remarks through you to the Prime Minister. After subtracting the questions answered today it is my understanding there are 124 unanswered questions still on the order paper, five of which are starred questions which should be answered as quickly as possible. Some of these questions have been on the order paper since May of this year. In my opinion they have remained on the order paper unanswered much too long. Perhaps I should point out that many of them were placed on the order paper as a result of Your Honour's guidance and instruction.
I ask the Prime Minister to prevail upon his cabinet ministers to give some attention to their duties to this house, particularly in respect of the questions which relate to their departments, in order that they may be answered as soon as possible.
October 25, 1967


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I should call the attention of the house to the fact that during this session 540 written questions have been asked of which 416 have already been answered. There have been 52 starred questions asked of which 46 have been answered. Having regard to the unanswered questions, particularly those dating back to last May referred to by my hon. friend, many of them will take some weeks yet to answer because of their nature.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to speak on the same point of order. I directed a question to the Prime Minister which was placed on the order paper. It relates to the task force studying labour relations, and simply requests a list of the subjects being studied and the people conducting the studies. This question was placed on the order paper four months ago, and I am wondering whether the Prime Minister will check to And out what the situation is in respect of an answer.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. Has the government reduced its winter works program to five months from last year's period of six months, and will the program now start on December 1 instead of November 1?


Mr. Speaker, the program may begin either on November 1 or December 1, according to the choice of each province, but the period will be restricted to five months.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Last year the winter works program included brush clearing, which is an important winter farm operation in many parts of Canada. Is brush clearing included in this year's winter works program?


Mr. Speaker, that may very well be included in winter works provided that is related to more important works
Inquiries of the Ministry in accordance with the winter works program. In other words, we will not accept programs having to do with clearing fields or cleaning sewers, etc., unless they are related to an over-all construction program.


The hon. member for Bow River on a supplementary question.


This is not quite a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, but it is related to the winter works program because it refers to lay-offs. Did the minister receive a petition from the international brotherhood of railway electrical workers in Calgary protesting the lay-off of 400 men by the C.P.R. due to the tie-up of shipments of grain-


Order, please.


-and will the minister have the manpower office in Calgary look into this matter?


Order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. In view of the fact that some months ago the drastic increase in the prices of farm machinery impelled the government to order an investigation, and in view of the fact that the problem is still besetting our farmers, I should like to ask the minister what progress is being made in this connection, how soon he expects a report on the investigation into the prices of farm machinery, and when we may expect the report to be tabled.


Mr. Speaker, when the royal commission was set up it indicated that to undertake a comprehensive survey which would be meaningful and useful would take some two years. The work of the royal commission is on schedule, but it has not been able to cut down that period of time.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. At the time the minister set up the royal commission he asked the farm implement companies to voluntarily accept guide lines regarding price increases. Can the

October 25. 1967
Inquiries of the Ministry minister tell the house whether the companies have complied with his request, and whether they have kept within the guide lines outlined by him at that time?


At the time, I believe it was about this time last year, the problem was very serious and I called in representatives and executives of the farm machinery companies. The general basis of contemplated price increases was under 5 per cent, which seemed to be justifiable in view of the increased labour and material costs that they were able to present to me. Until very recently I believe they operated within this framework. I have recently received complaints that they have gone beyond this framework, and the matter is being investigated by my office at the present time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Can he tell us whether subsidies were paid to Quebec potato producers for surpluses in storage in the spring of 1967 and, if such is the case, what was the amount paid or available for that purpose?


Order. I think that this question could easily be placed on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I think it is a matter of great urgency since the crop for the current year is already available, and if last year's subsidies have not yet been paid, I think it is about time to do so.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wanted to direct my question to the Minister of Public Works, but in his absence I will direct it to the minister's parliamentary secretary and ask him to bring it to the minister's attention when he returns. Would the minister give consideration to presenting at the earliest possible moment the

government's plans for the construction of the new complex to house the Department of National Defence here in Ottawa. The architects and consulting engineers working on the program for the government describe it as a $100 million construction project to start in the next fiscal year.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Will the government use its good offices to obtain from the United States, either at the United Nations or in the forum of world opinion, an explanation of its decision to resume arms shipments to Israel and five Arab countries in the Middle East?


Yes, sir.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture. I ask the minister whether he has any plans to lend part of his expert personnel from the P.F.R.A. offices to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources in order to conduct the Saskatchewan-Nelson rivers study, thus avoiding the duplication of personnel within departments.


Order, please. The hon. member is making a submission. I do not think it should be made in the form of a question.


Mr. Speaker, may I point out with all due respect that unless some definite answer is given immediately the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources could resort to employing people right now, which might not be necessary.


I should like to direct a question either to the Minister of Finance or to the President of the Treasury Board, and ask either of them whether in the course of their study of the estimated expenditures their attention was drawn to the fact that the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources is
October 25, 1967

setting up a duplicate service, and whether they approve of this practice.


Order. The second question strangely resembles the first one, but certainly if the minister can answer it I will allow it.


Mr. Speaker, no government has done more than this one to eliminate duplication in the government service.


Oh, oh.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I would like to ask the Minister of National Health and Welfare. It is related to public health and may possibly lead to some saving of the time of the house. Would the minister consider encouraging the referral of the subject matter of various private members' bills, all dealing with cigarette smoking and advertising, to the committee on health and welfare where the whole matter could be appropriately considered?


I have already
agreed to consider the possibility of sending this general subject matter to the committee, and I will be glad to consider whether this particular technique is the most suitable one.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of reports in the last week or so regarding the starting date of medicare which have created in the minds of the people of this country uncertainty, turmoil and doubt, will the Prime Minister issue a statement or assure those interested that no change is contemplated in the original plan to put medicare into effect on July 1, 1968?


The hon. gentleman should not be disturbed by such reports.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Then I shall put the direct question, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether medicare is to start on July 1, 1968.


Mr. Speaker, that is so under the law and the legislation we passed, in which no change has been made.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Finance a supplementary question. Is he trying to discourage the provinces from taking up medicare on July 1, 1968?


Order, please. The question is argumentative.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to rephrase the question I put earlier to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration, and ask him whether he has received a petition or a protest respecting the 400 men who were laid off in Calgary, and whether he will contact his manpower office there to suggest alternate employment for these people. It is a very serious matter.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to take this question as notice and answer it tomorrow, if possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. One month ago, on September 25, I directed a question to the Prime Minister in relation to the government's policy regarding the reinstitution of the roads to resources program. The Prime Minister said he was not in a position to make a statement that day but would look into it right away. In view of the fact that I have been asking this question for two and a half years, and the Prime Minister has indicated that the cabinet have had it under consideration, I wonder if I could get an answer.


That is not a long time for that cabinet.

October 25, 1967
Inquiries of the Ministry


I hope to be able to answer the question shortly. I am sorry to have kept the hon. gentleman waiting lor two and a half years.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Would he advise this house and the nation if the government will take the necessary steps to see that the shore line of Diefenbaker lake, created by the construction of the Gardiner dam, will be cleaned up and not left in its present polluted and hazardous condition?


We are always very careful to keep anything with the Diefenbaker name as clean as possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Labour. Has the minister been informed of the decision of the British Columbia government to set a ceiling of $12,000 per unit in regard to participation in low rental housing programs in Vancouver and the surrounding area? If so, has the minister any comment to make? I should like to ask the minister whether this action of the British Columbia government will make federal funds unavailable for low rental housing.


Mr. Speaker, my attention was first drawn to this recent action on the part of the government of British Columbia through a newspaper article. I immediately got in touch with officials of Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation, and I also called the provincial minister responsible in the housing field.
There had been a suggestion that an average amount of $12,000 per housing unit be fixed. I had not been able to get details as to whether that figure includes land, but I was informed that the figure was not $12,000 for any particular unit, but an average of approximately $12,000. I have asked for further details.
I also wish to say that so far as these projects in British Columbia are concerned

-they number some 1,000 units altogether- not just as the minister responsible for the administration of the National Housing Act but as a member of parliament for a British Columbia riding and therefore having a special interest in the matter, during the past several months I have put some suggestions to the provincial government through the municipal authorities concerned to induce them to take action. I am glad to see that some initiative is now being shown. I might also say that federal funds are available for these projects.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder if the Minister of Labour is in a position to announce to the house the date of the special federal-provincial conference on housing, to which he referred when he spoke on this matter several weeks ago, in view of the continuing need for further action on housing.


Mr. Speaker, at that time I stated that an invitation would go out before the end of October. The invitation has gone out in the name of the Prime Minister to the ten provincial premiers for a conference, suggesting the date of December 11.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Labour.
Can the minister tell us whether the provincial premiers, or their representatives, who have been invited to that conference, have already sent him their answer?


I would think not, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Justice whether his attention has been called to the rather extraordinary procedure in British Columbia where an accused person was placed under a hypnotic trance in court, and whether he has instructed his officials to examine the facts in the case and report back in order that we may ascertain whether changes should be made to the Canada Evidence Act so that such iniquitous practices may not develop.
October 25, 1967


have not heard of the case but will look into it, Mr. Speaker. I thank the hon. member for the suggestion.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the Postmaster General took notice of the question three or four days ago, I should like to ask him whether he is now in a position to explain why certain medical supplies which were sent by parcel post by the Canadian Menno-nite committee and were accepted by the Canadian post office were turned back at the point of shipment in San Francisco. Does the minister know whether this action contravenes in any way the undertakings of the world postal union?


Mr. Speaker, I answered that question two or three days ago.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the clear statement in the speech from the throne of May 8 that the report of the committee on election expenses would be referred to the committee on privileges and elections for study so that legislation might be introduced on the basis of that study, can the Prime Minister say when this report will be referred to the committee so its work can proceed?


I will be very glad to look into that question and see if the matter could be dealt with shortly.
[DOT] (3:10 p.m.)



The house in committee of supply, Mr. Rinfret in the chair.


Order. The house again in committee of supply, estimates of the Department of Forestry and Rural Development for the fiscal year ending March 31,
DEBATES	3471
Supply-Forestry and Rural Development 1968. Vote No. 1 will be found on page 182 of the blue book and the detail of services on page 184.


1. Departmental administration, $1,714,500.
Shall this item carry?


Mr. Chairman, the standing committee on agriculture, forestry and rural development considered the estimates of the Department of Forestry and Rural Development for 1967-68 during seven sittings, and on July 6, in its report to the house, it recommended that the department's estimates for 1967-68 be approved.
At the sittings of the committee, I was able to explain to the members the objectives of the Department of Forestry and Rural Development and some of the department's senior officials explained in turn each of the department's programs and answered numerous questions which the members of the standing committee saw fit to put to them.
I do not intend today to deal at length with the department's objectives and policies. I think that the report of the committee and the minutes of the proceedings enable hon. members to understand what the department is trying to do.
However, I should like to make a few remarks in order to allow all the members to study the estimates in the light of what seems to be the policy of the department.
May I at the beginning of this session pay tribute to my predecessors who assumed, since 1960, the political direction of the department. I am referring to the hon. member for Victoria-Carleton (Mr. Flemming), who was head of the department from October 1960 to March 1963, to the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin), who has been appointed minister in March 1963, and to the hon. Minister of Labour (Mr. John R. Nicholson), my immediate predecessor, who was the minister from April 1963 to February 1964. Those three ministers have given the department that kind of leadership which, I hope, I will be able to continue, and I know I have their entire sympathy when it comes to the discussion of the estimates of the department, especially today.
In the forestry division, we must remember that the department is concerned with research only; in other words, we are not responsible for forest management which
Ociober 25, 1967
3472	COMMONS
Supply-Forestry and Rural Development falls under the exclusive jurisdiction of the provinces.
I think all will agree that the department is leading the way in all aspects of research. In fact, we receive every day tokens of appreciation and also many visitors who come to see our methods and work. Although we are restricted to scientific research in the field of forestry, we have nevertheless taken a number of initiatives, including that of convening the first national conference on forestry which took place in Montebello, in February 1966. All the members of this house received a report of this conference, and I know that several found the information it contained interesting.
Following this conference, there was a meeting of the committee which had been set up to organize the conference, and we agree that we could hold other meetings on a national level in which administrators, deputy ministers and high officials of the provincial governments would participate and consider together what measures the provincial governments could take to improve forest management.
I should like the hon. members to understand the role we play and the measures we are taking. We are able to do this because the provincial governments trust us to take certain very limited measures. There has been recently, as always, some criticism of the inaction of the department in the field of forest management. I do not have, any more than my predecessors, to explain continuously the limitations imposed upon us by the British North America Act with regard to our role in the field of resources, and I shall simply say that thanks to the very good relationship between the officials at the federal and provincial level, and also because of my personal relationship, as was the case for my predecessors, with the provincial ministers of forestry, we can still take certain initiatives which, although of an unofficial nature, have been very successful. I am also satisfied with the co-operation received at all times by the department from provincial and national organizations. And when steps were taken under the leadership of my predecessor to reorganize the department structure, we thought of developing a consultation system whereby all concerned, namely provincial governments, research institutes, universities or private enterprise, are represented. Since those advisory bodies have been set up in most parts of Canada, the results in our opinion have been very gratifying.


[DOT] (3:20 p.m.)
I could speak at great length on the work performed in the department, but I think that most of my colleagues will dispense me from giving all these technical details which are very interesting indeed but which would extend the debate unduly.
The department of forestry, created in 1960 by the government under the leadership of the right hon. member for Prince Albert (Mr. Diefenbaker) and whose first minister was the hon. member for Victoria-Carleton, was transformed in 1964 when the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Pearson) decided to add certain responsibilities in the fields of rural development and administration of transportation charges for livestock feed.
As far as rural development is concerned, what is known mostly under the name of ARDA, hon. members receive practically every day from the provinces or the federal government press releases which explain the work we are doing.
It is a member of this legislature who, in 1961, initiated that legislation-as I said previously when the department's budget was discussed or when amendments were made to the act-but allow me to recall very briefly that the legislation covering ARDA has changed considerably since then.
At first, it was thought that the legislation was concerned mostly with agriculture; then, as time went on, it was realized that it was impossible to solve farm and the rural problems solely with legislation on farming, that it was necessary to go further. The provinces and the federal government then directed their action toward the development of the physical and human resources in rural areas.
Finally, last year, a third step was taken when parliament approved the $300 million Fund for Rural Economic Development, commonly known as FRED; its purpose is to enable the ARDA administration, jointly with the provinces, to engage in rural development.
Indeed, my colleagues are aware that since that time, since that act was passed by the house, we have signed agreements with two provinces, namely, New Brunswick and Manitoba; and we are currently negotiating vast rural development programs with Quebec, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland.
The administration of ARDA is no easy matter, because the act is based on agreements between the provincial and federal governments. Each province is free to
October 25. 1967

undertake certain types of programs and the federal government may not take the initiative of proposing to them what type of programs they should undertake and develop, so that, in some provinces, certain aspects of the ARDA agreements have been emphasized more than the others. In fact, the programs provided for in the agreements with the provinces have been implemented, in most cases, very successfully and sometimes in spite of lots of red tape. Unfortunately the results have not always been most satisfactory. I am not surprised at that and I believe that most members will realize that such a complicated legislation as that of ARDA, which tackles almost all the rural problems, cannot always be interpreted or implemented as firmly as we would like.
But it is not because in some cases-and I expect a few members of this house to mention one case or another this afternoon-administrative weaknesses or wrong interpretations of the agreements have occurred, that we should come to the conclusion that the program has not been successful. On the contrary, the ARDA program-passed without dissent by both houses in 1961, when the portfolio of agriculture was held by the present member for Qu'Appelle (Mr. Hamilton) -has received the widest acclaim, because it symbolizes perhaps a new concept in federal-provincial relations, where each province and the federal government are partners in a project affecting a definite part of the population, namely those living in rural areas.
On the whole, I think we have made some progress. As you know, the act was amended last year, by the addition of the Fund for Rural Economic Development Act, which made the sum of $300 million available to the department. It is now possible to get to the root of the rural problems.
However, we cannot do everything by ourselves. Until such time as a national agricultural policy is developed, that is, until the federal and provincial governments, in cooperation with farmers' agencies, agree upon a number of targets to be attained in the agricultural field within 5 or 10 years, ARDA will not fulfill its purpose as effectively as it should, and though we have the right to step in the fact remains that a number of requirements over which the ARDA administration has no control, have to be met.
In order to help us carry on our work, we have established, as hon. members will remember, the Canadian Council on Rural Development. It is a rather unusual organization in that it is not under the direct control 27053-220
DEBATES	3473
Supply-Forestry and Rural Development of the minister or the department. It has its own budget, its secretary, and even though its members are appointed by the minister, they act independently, that is, they meet regularly; they make comments, hold discussions, and they criticize the work of ARDA, in a constructive manner, of course, but they are not bound by the minister's decisions.
This is a federal organization of a new type which, I believe, performs its duty effectively. It will soon be called upon to assume other responsibilities, since it has given satisfaction up to now.
Certain members will possibly want to know what is happening to the development program suggested by the eastern Quebec development board and which was turned over to the provincial and the federal governments in July 1966.
It will be recalled that several times last year and this year, I spoke of the federal government's concern with the implementation of this development project which seems most important to me and at Riviere-du-Loup, at Chandler or at Riviere-au-Renard, last month, I undertook, on behalf of the government, to carry out this project. I have the pleasure to announce that last week, I received a letter from the acting premier and finance minister (Mr. Dozois) saying that he wanted to proceed immediately with the practical and definite negotiation of an agreement to implement this development program.
That is very good news which will surely please everyone interested in the pilot area because the implementation of this large development program is awaited impatiently.
[DOT] (3:30 p.m.)
In addition to forestry and ARDA, I am also responsible for the Canadian Livestock Feed Board created under legislation passed last year.
The president and the senior members of that board took up their duties on May 12 last, that is a few months ago; they have since considered several problems arising from the administration of that legislation whose object, as you know, is to provide for the transportation costs of livestock feed from the great lakes to the eastern provinces of Canada. They have already reached a certain number of decisions which I announced in the house last week and which are proof of their competence.
They are also reviewing the over-all problem and I hope that in the near future I will be in a position to communicate to the members of the house the stand which they have
October 25, 1967
3474	COMMONS
Supply-Forestry and Rural Development taken and the decisions which they suggest to improve the application of that important legislation.
The department is also responsible for the administration of the Maritime Marshland Rehabilitation Act, which has a very limited scope and which will expire in 1970, since the provinces concerned, that is New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, will then assume all the administrative responsibilities provided by the act.
This was a short overall view of the department's activities.
In the presence of two of my predecessors at the head of this department, may I pay a very special tribute to Mr. Rousseau, the deputy minister who retired on September 1 of this year. Mr. Rousseau, whom you know very well, was not only a forester, a scientist, but also a humanist. I think that my colleagues who have worked with him have been able to appreciate in particular his talents, his kindness and his understanding of problems.
Under his leadership, the department has adopted a course which I am sure it will pursue, and my colleagues in the house will certainly wish to join me in paying tribute to this great servant of the state.
Mr. Rousseau has been replaced as deputy minister by the vice-president of the Economic Council, Mr. Couillard, who took up his duties on September 1. There is no need to describe Mr. Couillard here-he is well known, having served on the Economic Council of Canada since its creation. He has had a career in the civil service, and he is known for his administrative ability.
We have also lost this year to the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources the assistant deputy minister responsible for ARDA, Mr. Davidson. He has become head of the water resources division of that department. Mr. Davidson, whom several hon. members know, has left his mark on the administration of ARDA and I was very sorry to see him leave.
He was replaced by Mr. Saumier whom most of the committee members have met and who has shown a remarkable understanding of ARDA problems. It is pointed out in the committee report in which a special tribute is paid him.
During the year, the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Mcllraith) announced that the headquarters of the department and the research laboratory would be built one in Hull and the other in Lucerne. These buildings


the plans and specifications of which must be submitted, will start soon I suppose. That is almost a new departure for the federal government to try to build on the Quebec side a certain number of federal buildings a