Second report of standing committee on industry, research and energy development-Mr. Hopkins.
Before calling orders of the day may I take this opportunity to advise hon. members that I have this morning received from the Speaker of the Lok Sabha of India a letter conveying the warmest congratulations of that body on the occasion of our centennial year. I intend to advise the Speaker of the Lok Sabha of the gratitude of members of the House of Commons to the members of the Indian legislature for their courteous action on this occasion.


Hear, hear.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would now ask the Prime Minister whether consideration has been given by the government to the question of having the house welcome television cameras for the purpose of assuring that across this country during centennial year the boys and girls may have some idea of the operation of parliament. We on this side of the house give this our full support, and I am sure all the Prime Minister has to do is act and action will be taken.


Mr. Speaker, the other day I received a copy of a memorandum from an officer of the C.B.C. outlining in some detail how a special program of this kind on the operations of parliament could be undertaken. I believe it was addressed to Your Honour as Speaker, and was referred to me.
I was much impressed by the proposal in the way it was put forward, and I have been discussing it with our own house leader. But it seems to me that to have a program of this kind undertaken next week, which would have to be on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday, at a time when the house is not likely to be as crowded as is normal would not be the best occasion; especially in view of the plans that were put forward which could and I believe will be very impressive when they are carried into effect. I would think, Mr. Speaker, it would be better to have this done when we resume next September, which I hope would probably be the month.


Mr. Speaker, does the Prime Minister not think the presence of the television cameras might account for a larger attendance here? Members would not dare stay away.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the far reaching effects which the Kennedy round of negotiations will have upon the economic life of Canada, is it the minister's intention to send the proposed tariff changes to the standing committee on finance, trade and economic affairs before final approval is sought from parliament?


Mr. Speaker, that would be a matter for the Minister of Finance, and I think he intends to deal with these tariff items by way of budget and consideration in the house. The standing committee has just completed its study of the estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce, and I do not think these changes need be referred back to it from my department. If they need to be referred to it from the Department of Finance, that is another consideration.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a supplementary question of the Prime Minister. In view of the fact, as I understand from members of that committee, that an
2144	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry assurance was given to it that these Kennedy round negotiation changes would be submitted to the committee in order that the general public might have an opportunity to make representations, would the Prime Minister take whatever steps are necessary to see that the committee is given an opportunity to examine these proposals?


I will discuss the matter with my colleague, Mr. Speaker.


As a further supplementary question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce, Mr. Speaker, is the minister planning a series of meetings with the leaders of business and industry that will be affected by the wide ranging tariff cuts on imported materials, considering in particular the drastic effects on Canadian manufacturing and industry in textiles, plastics, chemicals, fine papers and other major lines which will be hard hit by the reduction of tariffs especially against the United States?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we do propose to tell the business community of the great opportunities that arise from these tariff cuts.


Hear, hear.


I should remind the hon. gentleman that in the particular areas he mentioned the concessions granted by Canada were relatively modest.


Whether relatively modest or not, is there going to be consultation with business-


I said yes, Mr. Speaker.


-and is the minister in a position to say what effect these reductions will have in making Canada even more subject to American control?


Oh, oh.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Veterans Affairs I should like to direct a question to the acting minister. Since the minister previously stated that he expected
[Mr. Douglas.)
DEBATES	June 30, 1967
the Woods report to be tabled by the end of June, has he any further information for the house or for the veterans on this matter at this time?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be glad to take this question as notice and have a reply for my hon. friend early in the week.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question which is for the Secretary of State is in two parts. It concerns the television channel at Barrie. In spite of the quite proper reluctance on the part of the government to interfere, I wonder whether the minister would not consider that perhaps this matter should be held in abeyance until the question of educational television is settled. Second, has the minister received representations from the metropolitan educational television association in Toronto on this matter?


Mr. Speaker, the procedure followed by the B.B.G. now is that there is an application to the Minister of Transport which must bear his signature and subsequently must bear my signature before it goes to the cabinet for approval or any other action. With regard to the second part of the question the answer is yes; I received such representations this morning.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Secretary of State. In view of the complaints to the effect that others who intended to forward or who had forwarded their applications were not given consideration in connection with the outlet in Toronto, can the minister say whether the government will give consideration to that aspect; or are they just prepared to go ahead and allow this pay-off to the trio from Barrie to be consummated?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot tell you what kind of consideration my colleagues would give to it but as a resident of southern Ontario you may be sure I will be giving it plenty of consideration.
June 30, 1967	COMMONS DEBATES


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that statistics published this week demonstrate that in 1966 we set a record in Canada for highway deaths and injuries, and in view of the fact that the same statistics show that in the first half of 1967 we are establishing an all time new record, I would like to ask the Minister of Industry whether the government now is seriously considering the implementation in the near future of the recommendations in this regard of the committee on justice and legal affairs.


Mr. Speaker, we have been holding discussions on this matter with the provinces, and it would be my hope that in the not too distant future positive action will be able to be announced.


Mr. Speaker, as a supplementary question I should like to ask the minister whether progress has been made in respect of the setting up of the federal board recommended by the committee on justice and legal affairs, which would concern itself with all matters of motor vehicle safety.


Mr. Speaker, I think my answer to the previous question covers that point.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday I asked a question about complaints of a lack of box cars on C.N.R. lines to take grain from congested country elevators. Can the Minister of Trade and Commerce say whether this problem has been drawn to the attention of the Canadian Wheat Board?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I am pleased to advise the hon. member that last night seven box cars arrived at Nokomis on the C.N.R. line. The railways are aware of the situation at this delivery point, and have assured the Canadian Wheat Board that there will be an increased number of box cars arriving at Nokomis in the next few weeks.
Inquiries of the Ministry EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Does the minister have any knowledge of plans on the part of the Soviet union to sell arms and other military material to the Arab bloc countries?


Mr. Speaker, I have some information on that subject.


May I ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does the minister intend to make it plain that this country would view with considerable alarm any sales or negotiations in this respect, and would regard such as a direct contravention of the spirit of the United Nations cease fire and the peace efforts which are being made in that area of the world?


Mr. Speaker, when speaking on behalf of the Canadian government at the United Nations general assembly I urged that there be a halt in the sale of arms by all countries to nations in the Middle East. I was able to point out at the same time that it was not the policy of Canada to sell arms to any country in that area.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I should like to address to the Solicitor General. In view of the manner in which the cabinet exercises clemency and extends mercy to convicted murderers, I should like to ask whether the cabinet at this time during centennial year would graciously grant amnesty to the men of the Tilco plant at Peterborough who were convicted of illegal picketing in the wake of a mass demonstration.


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of any application that has been made for pardons on behalf of these men. If an application is made it will receive the usual careful consideration.
2146	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry INDUSTRY


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my Question is for the Minister of Industry. In view of the recent trade agreement under which Canada agreed to lower the duty on replacement car parts from 25 per cent to 15 per cent, can the minister say whether this is a first step in the movement toward free trade in replacement car parts?


Mr. Speaker, I think the house is aware that during the course of the fall the agreement respecting trade in automobiles and automotive parts will be reviewed. During the course of that review there is no question but that the situation in respect of replacement parts will be examined. I should not like at this time to attempt to anticipate what might be the outcome of this review.


I have a supplementary and related question. In view of the fact that Canada gives the car manufacturing companies of Canada a concession of $50 million per year, and in view of the statement the minister has often made, when can Canadian car buyers expect to be able to buy Canadian made cars at a reduced price?


As I informed the hon. member the other day when this question was raised in the committee, the so-called gift of $50 million to automobile manufacturers was in fact passed on to the consumers in the first year in the form of reduced prices.


Oh, oh.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Industry whether he is now in a position to answer the question I addressed to him recently.


Order, please. Perhaps the hon. member would indicate what the question is because I am suspicious it might be one which was ruled out of order.
{Mr. Pennell.]
DEBATES	June 30, 1967


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a question to the Minister of Transport.
Can the minister tell the house whether the locks on the St. Lawrence Seaway, between Montreal and Kingston, will be closed during the next few days for commercial shipping or pleasure boating? I mention the next few days, in reference to the trip of the royal yacht Britannia through the locks of the St. Lawrence Seaway.


Mr. Speaker, the details in respect of the passage of the Britannia through the seaway are not at my fingertips, but I will make inquiries and let the hon. gentleman know.


Why let him know? What has he got in mind?
ITranslation]


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Solicitor General of Canada as minister responsible for the R.C.M.P.
Could the Solicitor General tell us whether instructions have been given to the naval units of the R.C.M.P. first, to prevent pleasure craft from coming close to the royal yacht Britannia while it is berthed at the Marc Drouin dock in Montreal and, secondly after it is made fast in the St. Lambert locks?
I should like to ask the Solicitor General of Canada if instructions on this score have been given the R.C.M.P.?


Order. I do not think the hon. member may ask whether instructions have been given to the R.C.M.P.


Mr. Speaker, could I reframe my question so that it may be in order?
Will freedom of movement be given pleasure craft in the Montreal harbour and surrounding areas of Montreal harbour during the forthcoming week end?
June 30. 1967	COMMONS


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, is the Prime Minister now in a position to table the letters of invitation sent to the various provinces in respect of the conference on July 5, and the replies?


Mr. Speaker, after my right hon. friend asked about this the other day I made inquiries and found that all the replies have not been received. I think there are one or two more to come, and I hope they will be received over the week end.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Have the commissioners of the Yukon Territory and the Northwest Territories been invited to meet Her Majesty on the yacht Britannia, as well as the provincial premiers?


The invitations to meet Her Majesty on the yacht are given by Her Majesty. I think arrangements have been made for the commissioners to be here during the visit, but I will look into the details.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will these commissioners be sworn into the Privy Council as befits their increased stature and public responsibilities?


No, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Labour. With regard to the arbitration board which was set up to deal with the recent railway dispute, I would ask the minister whether he has any indication of how soon the board is likely to report?
DEBATES	2147
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I did make some inquiries two days ago, and my information is that the report will probably be completed in or about the second week of July. No definite date is fixed for transmittal to me but I believe it will be some time between the 7th and the 15th.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, further to the question about the Picard report concerning the longshoremen, may I ask whether the minister can give an assurance that to his knowledge none of the contents of this report have yet been made public?


As far as I know, Mr. Speaker, they have not been made public, though I understand that the technical adviser to the commission made certain representations, but they were made in public as part of the hearing.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Has the government made any decision in respect of the reduction of the land requirement for the building of veterans' homes under the V.L.A.?


I will have to look into that matter, Mr. Speaker.


I have a further question, Mr. Speaker. This is the same answer I received two months ago. I would draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that when I followed the matter up with the Minister of Veterans Affairs and indicated that the Department of Veterans Affairs were considering such a reduction, the minister denied it. I have in my possession a letter to which I would draw the attention of the Prime Minister-


Order, please. Is the hon. member rising on a point of order or a question of privilege? This is not a proper question.
2148	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry


I am
rising on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. The same answer was provided to me two months ago when this question was raised. It was referred at that time to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. When the question was followed up with the Minister of Veterans Affairs he denied that the department was considering such a move. My question was raised at the time because of the difficult housing shortage, especially in respect of our veterans, and I wondered whether the matter could be cleared up. At that time the minister denied that the department would consider such a reduction in land requirements. I have in my possession a letter signed by Mr. R. W. Pawley, director general of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Land Act, which directly contradicts the answer given in the house by the Minister of Veterans Affairs.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Stanley Knowles (Winnipeg North
Centre): Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question either to the Prime Minister or to the President of the Treasury Board. Will the government over the week end give notice of the legislation to increase the pensions of retired civil servants so we can deal with this matter next week?
I do not think this would be possible, Mr. Speaker. The matter is still under active consideration by the government.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the government make it clear that this matter will be dealt with before we break for a summer recess?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Solicitor General and ask whether he could make arrangements to have the hon. member for Lapointe (Mr. Gregoire) put in protective custody until after the Queen's visit.


Hear, hear.

DEBATES	June 30. 1967


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Fisheries. I wonder whether the minister could advise us if the government can now give the house information in respect of the level of federal-provincial assistance that will be made available to Nova Scotia lobster fishermen in order to overcome the storm damage of earlier this year.


Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to add to what I have already said in the house on this question. The matter is under consideration with the government of Nova Scotia.


On the orders of the day:
Hon, Arihur Laing (Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development):	Mr. Speaker, last Wednesday the right hon. Leader of the Opposition asked me about a wire he had received from the port of Churchill chamber of commerce in respect of our Eskimo school there.
I am sorry I could not answer the right hon. gentleman's question on Wednesday, it would appear the copy of the telegram to the right hon. gentleman had out-raced the original. I suggest that the right hon. gentleman refer to the answer I gave to a question put to me by the hon. member for Churchill on February 24, 1965 as reported at page 11695 of Hansard. At that time I indicated that the Eskimo school would be remaining in Churchill for from three to five years, and that situation has not changed. In the meantime we are happy to be able to use the facilities at Churchill.
I have a supplementary
question, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister prepared to go a little further and say the three to five years will be extended? It would be most unjust to Churchill if this school were removed.
June 30, 1967


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, some two weeks ago, in answer to a question put by the right hon. Leader of the Opposition, I stated that to my knowledge 14 year olds did not have to register under the Unemployment Insurance Act regulations. Upon going into the matter further I find that under regulation 18 every employer who employs a person in insurable employment, whether he be 14, 15 or older, must register him. To that extent, I was wrong in my previous reply, and I want to correct it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. If it is found that under the trade agreement just signed at Geneva undue hardship is worked on a particular industry, will it be possible for negotiations to be held directly between Canada and the principal country involved or must a universal agreement be sought with all the signatories of the agreement?


First of all we would want to talk to the company concerned; then recourse would have to be sought through the machinery of GATT if there were grounds for it.


On the orders of the day:
have a question for the Minister of Transport. Last Monday I asked him about an application from Pacific Western Airlines to the Air Transport Board to provide an additional service from Ottawa to western Canada. Has the minister any further information with regard to the deliberations of the board concerning that matter?


I regret I was not able to make inquiries in my office this morning, because I was detained at a meeting. However, I had asked the board to let me know as soon as anything definite was decided. I had heard nothing up
Supply-Trade and Commerce to last night. I know it is an urgent matter, but it is under active consideration and action may have been taken by now.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Batten in the chair.


Mr. Chairman, I know how anxious we all are to deal with the various matters which must be considered before the adjournment. However, according to my understanding the estimates of the Department of Public Works were supposed to come up for discussion today. It was also mentioned by the minister in the course of his remarks that an opportunity would be given us today to deal with the estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce.
No member of the house, no matter how studious he is, would be in a position to deal today with the Kennedy round tariff matters which must be discussed before we adjourn. I have read the statements that were delivered and I have tried to make some analysis of them, but it was quite impossible to do this in the short time we had. I suggest the minister should put this over until next week, thereby enabling a study to be made of the subject and an intelligent discussion to take place.
If we take up this matter today we will be able to give it only cursory, uncertain and uninformed consideration. This is a matter of tremendous consequence to Canada, and I suggest that in the spirit of co-operation that has prevailed the minister should agree to this proposal because otherwise these issues, the importance of which to the economy of Canada cannot be overestimated, will merely be touched upon.


I think that is a reasonable approach to the problem. Under normal circumstances the estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce would have been called yesterday but I thought this might have been unfair to hon. members because it would preclude them from asking questions in connection with the Kennedy round tariff negotiations. So I suggested the estimates be held over until today to give hon. members the opportunity to examine the documentations overnight.
I realize this has not given sufficient time so I suggest, to accommodate the right hon. Leader of the Opposition and hon. members, that we proceed with the other items in the estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce. I am quite sure the Minister of
2150	COMMONS
Supply-Trade and Commerce Finance and I could arrange to be here at a convenient time next week. I refer to the Minister of Finance because the details of the tariff structure are matters more appropriate for the Minister of Finance than for the Minister of Trade and Commerce.


I think that is a very proper decision. Item 1 could be allowed to stand and could be dealt with next week. I thank the minister for that suggestion.


Mr. Chairman, on the point raised by the Leader of the Opposition may I say that I think we all agree it makes common sense for us to delay consideration of the Kennedy round until we have had time to study this matter. However, I would like to ask that some consultation take place on matters to be taken up next week. We will only have a short time before we conclude consideration of the estimates on Thursday night. I believe arrangements should be made as to what departments will be under discussion next week. I am not asking that we negotiate in public as to what we should do, but my point is that if we spend a day next week on consideration of the trade and commerce estimates some other matter will suffer. I know what matter I do not want to suffer. Can we have some consultations on this during the day?


Mr. Chairman, in reply to the comments made by the right hon. Leader of the Opposition and the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre let me say that we have already had consultations relating to the program for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, and it would be possible on Friday of next week to call, for example, the Department of Finance. If consideration of the trade and commerce department is completed today this would provide an opportunity to deal with the specific problem of the Kennedy round negotiations. So if the estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce were passed today there would be no prejudice to a further consideration of the Kennedy round of negotiations late next week, because we could still call the Department of Finance next Friday if it were desirable.
[DOT] (11:40 a.m.)


I should like to ask the
house leader if there would be any objection to leaving item No. 1 open so there would be no question of the limitation of discussion. I thought we had come to that agreement here, and I hope it will be confirmed, because it is quite satisfactory to have the discussion next

DEBATES	June 30, 1967
Friday. I should like to have item 1 left open, and I can see no objection to that.


I wonder if I might ask whether the committee would consider whether I, as Minister of Finance, might make a statement supplementary to that made by the Minister of Trade and Commerce yesterday when presenting to the house the document and results of the Kennedy round. I have no desire to take the time of the house, but I think it might expedite consideration of these estimates when we come back to this item if I were to make a statement on behalf of the ministry of finance as to the plans we have for the implementation of these results. Then when the debate occurs it could take place in the light of my comments.


I am sure all of us would like to hear from the Minister of Finance. I think, however, today is not the day. We could arrange for the matter to come up next Friday, and before that date the minister will have the fullest opportunity to make his statement. We are getting this information piecemeal. Last night we got one part, then we are to get another part today. I know that serials are interesting, but possibly the minister could wait until some time next week to give us his viewpoint.


Perhaps I might proceed, then, with item 1 of the Department of Trade and Commerce and make whatever brief remarks I have, and then it would be open to any hon. member, including the Minister of Finance, to make any comments he wished. Then I suggest we stand the item and go on and pass the other items of the department, in the hope of returning to item 1 next Friday or to the estimates of the Minister of Finance. Is that agreeable to hon. members?


There is just one matter I should like to mention in connection with trade and commerce. We are under no obligation, according to the agreement we reached last week, to pass this department in this portion of the session. It is not one of the specified departments we have left with which we agreed to deal. They were transport, national defence, health and welfare, Indian affairs and northern affairs. These departments will be guillotined next Thursday night if we do not pass them in the interval. However, there has been no agreement to complete trade and commerce.


That being so, Mr. Chairman, I do not believe there should be
June 30, 1967	COMMONS
any agreement to the course suggested by the minister. This course was well planned, since it would enable the Minister of Finance to make a statement today and have the record plastered up. In view of the fact we are permitting the minister to go ahead with something to which there was no agreement, I feel there should be no such element entering into it as the Minister of Finance proceeding to deal with the Kennedy round. We are consenting to the minister going ahead today, provided item 1 is held over. The minister can make his statement, and then next week the Minister of Finance will make the statement he has in mind.


May I ask a question about this procedure. What has happened to the undertaking given by the minister to the committee that this entire matter would be brought back to the committee for the hearing of witnesses and a thorough investigation? Why is that not going to happen?


I would have to refresh my memory as to the nature of the undertaking. Frankly, I do not recall giving it in those terms.


I feel, Mr. Chairman, that we should stick to the agreement at which the house leaders arrived for the culmination of this part of the session. We should concentrate our efforts on those departments we have agreed to pass and for which an appropriation bill could be introduced at the end of this part of the session. I do not see that anything can be gained by giving consideration to the estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce without a full discussion of the Kennedy round results. May I suggest that we proceed with the Department of Public Works for the balance of the day, then the Department of Trade and Commerce can be brought up next week and the Minister of Finance can make his statement on the Kennedy round. I feel this discussion is taking up time that could be devoted to the consideration of the Department of Public Works.


Well, Mr. Chairman, I thought we had reached an agreement on this yesterday.


No; then the Minister of Finance came in. It could be done simply in this way; leave item No. 1 open and go ahead with the rest of the items in the Department of Trade and Commerce. There will be no objection to that course.
DEBATES	2151
Supply-Trade and Commerce


Perhaps we should do that. The officials are here, so I suggest we go ahead with the Department of Trade and Commerce leaving item 1 aside.


Is it agreed now that the committee of supply will proceed with the estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce and that vote No. 1 shall stand?


Agreed.


We shall proceed with vote No. 5, the details of which will be found on page 495 of the blue book.
DEPARTMENT OF TRADE AND COMMERCE Trade Commissioner Service-
5. Administration, operation and maintenance. $10,832,100.


I am sure the minister has material in front of him on the basis of which he can make a statement on this $10 million item. I think we should have that statement.


Perhaps I should make my general statement here, then, because much of it revolves around the trade commissioner service which recently spent a very profitable seven weeks touring Canada in the interests of trade and the general economic health of the country. I will not deal with the Kennedy round at this time.
On June 8 I was privileged to meet the standing committee on finance, trade and economic affairs under the chairmanship of the hon. member for Essex West. The estimates of the Department of Trade and Commerce were reviewed very thoroughly at that time. I dealt with the current and projected plans of the department. The proceedings of that meeting have been printed and published, so I do not intend to burden hon. members with a repetition of the department's achievements and intentions as of that day. However, we have been moving forward, and it might be useful if I were to comment briefly upon certain activities which I believe might be of interest to the committee.
Following an almost unprecedented expansion in exports in 1966, sales abroad have continued to advance strongly in the current year. To emphasize the vital importance to the Canadian economy of sustaining strong export growth, a target of $11.25 billion was set last fall as an export objective for Canada's centennial year. Although considered at the time to be a particularly stiff challenge, this target has received the full endorsation and support of the export community.
2152	COMMONS
Supply-Trade and Commerce
Developments so far suggest that these high aspirations are in fact well on the way to realization. Notwithstanding the prevalence of less pressing demand conditions this year in some of our principal export markets, particularly the United States and the European community, figures for the first five months of the year show exports up 16.5 per cent or $650 million compared with the same period of 1966. This means that about two thirds of the projected increase for the year has already been achieved.
[DOT] (11:50 a.m.)
The figures for the month of May show total exports of $1,066.7 million, as against $932.9 million for May, 1966, an increase of 14.3 per cent. This includes substantial increases in exports to the United Kingdom, other commonwealth countries and the United States. The figure for the United States, for example, for May is up by 18.2 per cent. For the months of January through May the total amount of our exports is $4,593.3 million as against $3,943.1 million for the period of January through May, 1966, a total full increase of 16.5 per cent.
Even allowing for a diminution in the strength of some of the forces contributing to this early-year expansion, there is good likelihood that the $11.25 billion target will be realized and possibly exceeded. This will represent a creditable showing indeed in a year characterized by significantly slower growth in world trade as a whole.
I have indicated, without going into the Kennedy round negotiations, what steps we plan to make the results available to the business community in Canada. The statistics have been circulated to trade associations and have been sent out directly from my office to some 153 companies. The export advisory board has been invited to Ottawa; they will arrive here early next week. We shall brief them and ask them to carry the message back to their communities. In addition, we plan a series of regional or sectional seminars in various parts of Canada-some in co-operation with provincial authorities concerned with trade, some in collaboration with sectors of our trading community direct-to examine the Kennedy round results and to expedite and recommend ways to exploit specific new exports prospects. I have already communicated, in fact, with the provincial ministers. These seminars will commence this autumn when our businessmen have had time to consider the relevance of the agreements to their individual operations.
{Mr. Winters.]
DEBATES	June 30. 1967
Over and beyond the foregoing, we in the department have commenced our own detailed study of the Kennedy round agreements to ensure that every program and activity in our trade promotion operations is tuned to maximize the realization of the new export prospects. I assure hon. members that our promotional efforts will reflect this as our prime concern. I have every expectation that Canadian businessmen will demonstrate equal resolve and effort. As recommended by the export advisory council, we intend to encourage the formation of export committees within trade associations and to use these channels and that of seminars, regionally and within annual conferences of trade and industry associations, to support our export drive.
As to operation export, which is the item to which the hon. member just referred, final data reveal that 2,144 firms actually held interviews with our trade commissioners during their seven week, highly successful, cross-Canada tour. This figure is a new record for operations of this type. This preliminary review indicates that half these firms are new to the export field or inexperienced in exporting.
The department is analysing all the data of operation export 1967. We feel sure the information derived will be useful in furthering our trade promotional activities and programs. For example, 10 per cent of the participating firms were subsidiaries of foreign parents. That indicates an increasing willingness on the part of foreign subsidiaries operating in Canada to enter the export field. Again, we will be able to identify firms by province and city of residence and degree of export experience, as a step in determining whether the concentrations of such firms warrant, say, a group approach to guidance in the techniques and practices of export. The trade commissioners who took part in the operation have now returned to their posts and are following up on the more than 16,000 interviews they held. The first progress reports on the results will be submitted before the year end.
As hon. members know, exports are only one side of the trade picture; it is a side that helps to stimulate our domestic economy, provide jobs and also helps to bring about a high level of economic performance. Imports, Mr. Chairman, are the other side and as a nation we import almost as much as we export. The importing of goods and services, and importing as an industry, all contribute to our high standard of living. Moreover, it is fair to say that we must import in order to export. Trade
June 30, 1967

is a two-way street and will be more so when the concessions of the Kennedy round are fully implemented. Canadians, I think, too often look abroad for sources of supply without first finding out if the goods and services are available in Canada. As a result, over the past five years while our exports grew to three quarters as much again as in 1961, our imports have grown almost as much.
Last year we had a substantial favourable trade balance. Unfortunately that was not quite as much as was reflected by the Dominion Bureau of Statistics year end figures. I want to inform hon. members of the discrepancy and the reason for it. It was found, in the course of confirming the earlier figures in 1967, that one important port had failed to submit its export figures to the Dominion Bureau of Statistics in time to have them included in the year end figures. The appropriate officers of the D.B.S. did not detect the discrepancy in time; as a result there was fault on both sides.
This has been reported in the press. It has been intimated that the favourable trade balance might in fact disappear. I can assure hon. members that while the trade balance might be reduced as against the figure reported by D.B.S., it will still be favourable. I can also assure hon. members that adequate steps and precautions are being taken to see that there will not be any recurrence of such a discrepancy.
There are other features of the department, very important ones, that I will not deal with at length at this time. I should refer, I think, to Expo '67 because it has received considerable attention in the world, not to mention the attention of Canadians. It has demonstrated that it is a great credit to Canada.


Hear, hear.


It will give us a new sense of national pride and status. I doubt whether Canadians ever again, after 1967, will feel that they are the kind of Canadians they were when they entered 1967. I think we shall adopt a new approach, with higher resolve, increased status and a greater pride, in ourselves and our country.
The attendance figures at Expo are striking in themselves. Yesterday, for example, a total of 267,318 guests attended, for a total to date of 16,535,419, which is considerably above the estimates. However, despite the fact that visitors are coming to Expo far in excess of expectations, the corresponding revenues have not been commensurately great. So far,
Supply-Trade and Commerce the people who have visited Expo have spent rather less per capita within the gates than had been anticipated. It is thought that when the flow of United States visitors arrives during the holiday season the slack will be taken up. It may be of interest to note that the total receipts as of June 22 from admission sales, advance admission sales and other revenues from visitors, including revenues from concessions and the performing arts, were expected to be of the order of $59 million whereas actual receipts totalled about $56 million, somewhat lower.
(12 noon)
The success of Expo will not be judged, however, from the financial returns within the gates. We always anticipated a substantial short-fall of revenues against expenditures within the gates of Expo itself. We as a government-and I know this is true of the government which preceded us-count on the financial success of Expo being reflected in its benefits across Canada and in the receipts which will accrue to the treasury through other channels.
I am sure that in the long run the net beneficial effects to Canada, financial and otherwise, will be substantial. I did want to tell hon. members of the great success of the exhibition as an attraction to visitors and point out at the same time that though revenues are not running quite as high as the number of visitors might indicate, the success of Expo is assured.


Mr. Chairman, I was interested in the statement the minister made with regard to the $100 million discrepancy. I am sure the explanation he has given will satisfy all hon. members.
I was pleased to hear the hon. gentleman repeat what he said last night with regard to the seminars which are to be held in conjunction with provincial ministers. I should like to ask whether members of parliament will be invited to attend these seminars, regardless of the party they may happen to represent. This is a subject of great interest to members of parliament.
I am sure all members will be pleased with the decision to discuss the items involved in the tariff changes next week rather than today. I believe it would be almost impossible for anyone to become conversant with this intricate subject in the very short time during which the details have been available to hon. members.
2154	COMMONS
Supply-Trade and Commerce
The minister was asked today whether he would agree to have this matter referred to the committee on finance, trade and economic affairs. In fact, he was asked in one of the meetings of that committee on June 8, I believe, whether these tariff changes would be studied in the committee. It appears to me that the minister intended this to happen and that the members of the committee were also under that impression. This is what the minister said, according to the report of the committee's proceedings on June 8, page 40:
I would be glad to come together with you on an ad hoc basis, on a study group basis, or any other basis you wish to approach it. I think it would be a wonderful opportunity to help to disseminate information about what is going to be the most important development in the trading world in this generation.
I believe this clearly indicates that it was the intention of the minister that the whole question should be studied further by the committee. If we read further, we find mention of the fact that various firms could be invited to give evidence before the committee.
Dealing with the votes under the heading "General Administration", I believe the picture presented is somewhat misleading, though not intentionally so. The estimates are up by almost $4 million. The cost of running the standards branch is to rise by roughly $150,000. The estimate for Expo is down by $1,921,000, which is understandable because last year we were naturally spending great sums of money on this outstanding event. I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the minister and his department as well as all those people who were in any way responsible for the conduct of its affairs and the construction and administration of Expo '67. I am sure all hon. members who have visited Expo, as I have done, will agree with me that one's heart just naturally swells with pride over the fact that one is a Canadian, and we have such a great achievement.


Hear, hear.


I think it would be particularly remiss of me if I did not also take the opportunity to congratulate the former administration, first, for selecting the site and, second, for choosing the first committee. They were the ones who actually got the ball rolling; it was their baby, so to speak. Expo is doing a fine public relations job for our country, and I think every one of us should be proud to have even a small part in this affair.
Farther down the list of items are some which are of particular interest to me. From the entry at the bottom of page 492 we note

DEBATES	June 30, 1967
that in 1966-67 the estimate for carrying costs of temporary wheat reserves and payments in connection with the Prairie Grain Advance Payments Act amounted to $40,388,000 while in this current year it is $33,940,000, a decrease of $6,448,000. If the amount of grain being carried in reserve is less, then the cost of carrying these temporary wheat reserves must, of course, be lower. This distorts the final figures set out against these items in that a decrease is shown whereas in fact no such decrease has been brought about.
9 (12:10 p.m.)
For the next item, the Pacific National Exhibition in Vancouver, last year the government spent $1,200,000 and in the current fiscal year will spend $800,000. In the right hand column the decrease is shown as $400,000. I do not think this is right because the item reads:
Grant to the Pacific National Exhibition, Vancouver. towards the cost of constructing a trade fair and sports building at Exhibition Park, Vancouver. the government of Canada's share not to exceed $2,000,000.
Having paid $1,200,000 in the previous year a balance of $800,000 was left. A decrease in expenditure is shown but actually the $800,000 is the unexpended balance of what had been previously committed for this venture.
At the bottom of the page we find listed, as I said before, a decrease of $4,775,600, and I think this is somewhat unintentionally misleading. The actual cost of administration is up almost $4 million and this at a time when we should be saving, not expanding our expenditures.
According to the details given on page 494 there is an increase of 15 per cent in the administrative staff. We are again back to the old empire building program in government at a time when the accent should be on saving, on cutting the estimates and saving the taxpayers' money. At present people are carrying such a fantastic tax load that they have reached the limit in this field. Now we must go to work on the other end and see where we can secure definite savings. As with all other departments, and in particular with the Department of Trade and Commerce, we shall have to work hard with the goal in mind of increasing departmental productivity.


Mr. Chairman, I would direct the attention of the committee to the list of trade posts abroad under vote 5. The total amount of the estimate for these posts has been increased somewhat, but I gather increases in rates of pay have had quite a bit to
June 30, 1967	COMMONS
do with it. We seem to have closed two offices and opened four others. I wonder why the office at Bombay was closed leaving only one in New Delhi to cover the great subcontinent of India. I notice there are two offices in Pakistan, at Islamabad and Karachi, and I think it possible there would be sufficient co-operation in that area for one of those offices to deal with matters on the west coast of India. I would be interested to know whether this is the case and whether consideration will be given to transferring one office to handle trade affairs in that vast area. It would also appear that we have no office in the great city of Calcutta.
Throughout the Pacific area our offices are few in number. We have two very close together, at Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. One wonders whether it is necessary to have two so close together, especially since the only other one in the area is at Tokyo. We are sadly unrepresented throughout the area of the Pacific rim. I would mention specifically Seoul, the capital of Korea, Bangkok, the capital of Thailand, and Taipei, the capital of Taiwan.
The Prime Minister made a special trip to British Columbia to assure the Canadian west that the government was keenly interested in Pacific trade, was doing all it could to encourage it and in fact was doing so much that the provinces were told not to bother. Yet when we examine the details of the estimates we are bound to wonder how genuine is the Prime Minister's argument and how sincere is the government in its protestations of doing all it can for Pacific trade. I would be interested to know whether there are plans to open additional trade offices in that part of the world during the coming year. It is an area which is sadly unrepresented either by diplomatic offices or trade offices. We do not have offices in several countries where we should have representation of some kind.
One of the offices which has been closed was at Salisbury and one of the new offices opened was at Nairobi. I gather that is an attempt to make up in that vast area of east Africa for under-representation of Canadian interests. It would be more correct to question on the estimates of the Department of External Affairs some of Canada's trading actions in that area, but at the moment I would be interested to know whether the office at Nairobi will be able to represent us fully in that very large and very diverse area of Africa.
DEBATES	2155
Supply-Trade and Commerce


Mr. Chairman, I would take advantage of this opportunity to mention a few thin