I have the honour to inform the house that the Clerk of the House has received from the Chief Electoral Officer the election certificates of Mr. Jacques-R. Tremblay for the electoral constituency of Richelieu-Vereheres and of Mr. Pierre Caron for the electoral constituency of Hull.
[DOT] (2:40 p.m.)


First report of standing committee on industry, research and energy development, in English and French-Mr. Asselin (Rich-mond-Wolfe).
First report of special joint committee on divorce-Mr. Cameron (High Park)
[Note: Text of the foregoing reports appears in today's Votes and Proceedings.]
Mr. Speaker, I wish to announce that I have received a letter of resignation from Mr. L. A. Landreville, and that the government has decided to accept his resignation as a justice of the Supreme Court of Ontario. Since the house has shown some interest in this matter I thought it might want to give me permission to table a copy of this letter.


Does the house agree to the minister's suggestion?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, would this be an appropriate time to ask the Minister of Justice a question regarding the matter to which he has just referred?


I do not think so. The question might be asked when we reach that item in today's order of business.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, instead of asking questions regarding international affairs, because an opportunity will be presented later today to do so, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he received a telegram from the priests of Antigonish diocese per Reverend James McMullin, pointing out the need for the immediate establishment of a crown corporation for industrial development in Cape Breton to check the serious and, as described in the telegram, rapidly worsening unemployment situation in the Cape Breton industrial area. In view of the fact that 200 men were laid off at the Sydney steel plant last week and 90 are being released today, I should like to ask whether the act that was promised six months ago, which is still in the embryonic stage, will be brought forward-


Order.


Let me say to the hon. members who have interrupted that a statement was made yesterday to the effect that the resolution was on the order paper, therefore it must be still in the embryonic stage. Will the government bring this matter forward tomorrow in view of the serious and appalling situation in Cape Breton?


Mr. Speaker, I have received the telegram and it will be dealt with immediately. The legislation in question will be brought forward next week.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Industry perhaps I may direct a question to the right hon. Prime Minister regarding the steel industry in Cape Breton. Has it been drawn to his attention that a notice has now been posted to the effect that unless conditions improve, in addition to the 300 men laid off in the last few days another 400 men will
1282	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry be laid off on June 18? Is it true that some orders for the manufacture of steel rails for export have to be cleared by the government, and will the Prime Minister take this matter in hand to see that these orders are cleared as quickly as possible so the anticipated lay off on June 18 may not materialize?


Mr. Speaker, if I might answer about the steel rails, the government approved the credit for a contract on Tuesday of this week, and it was announced forthwith, in the amount of some $9 million covering a sufficient quantity of rails to provide work for some 24 to 28 weeks.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is the government taking any other action to prevent the rapid deterioration of the employment situation in the steel industry of Cape Breton?
Righl Hon. L. B. Pearson (Prime Minisler):
Mr. Speaker, we are taking the most far reaching action that has been taken by any government in this matter.


It is far reaching inaction.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Regardless of what the Prime Minister said, would he ask the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Trade and Commerce and his cabinet to carry out a complete investigation into the operations of this company, before we end up with no steel industry at all in Sydney?


Mr. Speaker, perhaps that should be done in conjunction with the premier of Nova Scotia.


Passing the buck again.


Mr. Speaker-


Sit down.


Perhaps the hon. member who said "Sit down" would rise and identify himself. It would be interesting to see who it was.


Order, please. Would the hon. member ask his supplementary question.


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister whether he has

DEBATES	June 8, 1967
now changed his opinion that this is a responsibility of the federal government, as has been stated and intimated by the cabinet member from Nova Scotia?


Order, please.


It depends on the situation, doesn't it?


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the Prime Minister but I would also direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce and ask whether he would care to amend the statement he made about the 28 weeks' employment. My main question, however, is to the Prime Minister and I would ask, in connection with the Cape Breton development corporation, whether it is the intention of the government, as indicated previously by the Prime Minister, that steel will play a prominent part in this development corporation and will be the basis upon which new industry would be founded within the province.


Mr. Speaker, I hope my hon. friend will be satisfied on this score when he sees the legislation next week.


The resolution is not yet
ready.


As
usual, no answer.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
The minister has just announced the transfer of the Indian Affairs office from Amos to Val d'Or, in Abitibi. Could he tell us whether the Indians of the territory have been consulted and how?


The hon. member will readily agree, I am sure, to put his question on the order paper.
June 8, 1967


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the statement yesterday by Ambassador Ignatieff to the effect that the UN truce supervisory organization, rather than the emergency force, would or may be the best way of re-establishing a UN presence in the Middle East along the cease fire lines, has this organization been regrouped and coordinated, and has Canada made any preparations to provide additional personnel when they are required, which we hope will be immediately?
Hon, Paul Marlin (Secretary of Stale for External Affairs): Mr. Speaker, would my hon. friend agree that this question might be answered when we come to the estimates, which will be right after the orders of the day?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question-


Order, please. May I suggest to hon. members that they might refrain from asking questions of the same nature as the one asked by the hon. member for Medicine Hat, inasmuch as in a few minutes we will go into committee to consider the external affairs estimates.


Mr. Speaker, I wanted to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether the supervisory truce commission personnel are taking any part in the cease fire between Israel and Jordan.


Yes, Mr. Speaker.
Hon. Gordon Churchill (Winnipeg South
Centre): I should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs a question concerning the truce supervisory commission or the United Nations observer corps on the borders of Israel and Syria and the borders of Israel and Jordan. Is the report accurate that one of these men was killed yesterday, and what steps are being taken to provide for the safety of Canadian members of this commission under the present situation of war that prevails?
Inquiries of the Ministry


I cannot confirm officially that one member of the United Nations truce supervisory organization has lost his life. There has been a story to that effect. So far as I know, no Canadian officer is in that locality.


Are the members of this commission obliged now to make observations with regard to military attacks that are occurring?


They are carrying out their duties to the extent that is possible.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I know the Minister of Justice is waiting for a question in regard to the resignation of Mr. Justice Landreville. As a result of having resigned voluntarily, will the judge be eligible to receive the bounty of a pension for a retired judge?


Mr. Speaker, that is hardly a question; it is a commentary.


Oh, oh.


Hear, hear.


I can only say that as far as I know there is no question of bounty.


Then let us get a comment from the minister: Will Justice Landreville receive a pension? Is that a commentary?


Mr. Speaker, I understand this question. I think it is very much the type of matter to which the government might well give some consideration.


Oh, oh.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker-


May we have order, please.


If the Minister of Justice would direct his attention to me for a minute I will put my question. Is there anything in the correspondence leading up to the resignation and the acceptance of the resignation of
1234	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry Mr. Justice Landreville which mentions or deals with the question of a pension?


Mr. Speaker, I have had no correspondence with Mr. Justice Landreville, and I do not think any member of the government has since I have assumed office as Minister of Justice. There has been some correspondence over the past months-


When did the minister get the letter of resignation?


I must say I have seen no correspondence wherein the question of pension is raised by any member of the government.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Was the head of the Export Credits Insurance Corporation speaking on behalf of the government when he issued a statement to the effect that Israel will be unable to pay its debts to Canada?


No, sir, no such statement was authorized. Mr. Aitken, president of the Export Credits Insurance Corporation, did make a reply in response to a question, but I do not think it was in that vein.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the minister look into exactly what was said and, if what was alleged is true, have Mr. Aitken either retract or correct his statement, which is very damaging to Israel?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce on the same subject but put in a different way, and ask him whether in view of some misunderstanding which has arisen because of a statement made by Mr. Aitken, to which the hon. member for Oxford has referred, the minister would clarify Canada's policy regarding trade with Israel.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for giving me notice of his intention to ask the question. I will be very glad to reply. For some years the Canadian government, in view of the unsettled situation in the Middle East, has exercised caution in author-

DEBATES	June 3, 1S67
izing exports of military equipment to countries in that area. Some exports of parts for non-combat piston aircraft and non-combat vehicles received authorization after careful consideration.
On receiving word of the outbreak of hostilities on June 5, the government acted promptly to stop any shipments of military equipment from Canada to the countries reportedly involved. No action has been taken to impose new export controls on ordinary commercial transactions in non-military goods. The shipment of non-military goods is presently at the discretion of shippers and is subject to the availability of transportation. No change has been made in Canada's trade relations with countries in the area.
Some steamship lines that serve the Middle East are rerouting their ships to avoid the Suez canal. Some are not presently accepting cargo for eastern Mediterranean and Arabian ports. The services of the trade commissioner posts in the area remain available to Canadian exporters. There may, however, be some delays, which I think is understandable, in servicing business inquiries, resulting from the present situation.


Would the minister clarify the situation further with regard to one point? Will exports to Israel or any other Middle East country remain eligible for insurance under the Export Credits Insurance Corporation?


Yes, on the question of eligibility. But they will have to be examined in the light of existing risks, as are all other applications for credit.


On the orders of the day:
Last Thursday, Mr. Speaker, I asked a question of the Acting Minister of Transport, who indicated that the minister would be replying upon his return. I wonder if the minister can now inform the house when part I of the new transportation act will be proclaimed, so that western communities might be provided with protection under its terms in connection with railway line abandonment procedures.


I cannot say. I indicated quite recently that I was not in a position to say when part I would be proclaimed. I did indicate quite
June 8, 1967

some time ago, and I am happy to be allowed to repeat it now because the question has some urgency, that the procedures laid down in the amendments approved by parliament with respect to rail line abondonment will be followed whether the Board of Transport Commission hears the cases or the new commission hears them.


May
T ask a supplementary question of the Minister of Transport, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister say when the new Canadian transport commission will be appointed?


Well, it cannot be appointed in full until part I is proclaimed. I am advised, however, that it would be possible to appoint one or two officers, if that was deemed advisable, in order to do the work preparatory to the establishment of the commission. One difficulty, of course, is that once the commission is established, it must start to operate at once because the existing boards go out of existence the same day.


May I ask a further supplementary question. Can the minister assure the house that no railway line abandonment hearings will be heard until such time as the commission is in operation?


No, sir, I do not think that would be a reasonable thing for me to do, nor would it be in accordance with the law as passed by parliament. It is highly improbable that any new applications will be heard, but it should be remembered that some of these applications were made more than four years ago. They were stayed for a very long period; and since a transitional period was provided for under the act, it does not seem to me it would be fair to disregard the law enacted by parliament last session.


May I ask a supplementary question for clarification. Is it possible to have abandonment hearings under the old procedures, or does the minister now consider that abandonment hearings will be held under the new procedures?


I gave the assurance-


Order. I would think the hon. member is now asking for an interpretation of the law, and the question as such is not acceptable.


I wonder if I may be permitted to clear up this point.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order, please. The minister is asking for the indulgence of the house to clear up a statement. Does the house agree?


I beileve there is a great deal of public interest in this matter, sir, so I should like to make it as clear as possible that the new procedures will be followed in the hearing of any applications by the Board of Transport Commissioners in the interval before the new commission is established.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Did the minister not say during the transportation bill debate that no applications would be heard until the new board was set up? The new board, we were told, would establish a costing system under which the same principles would apply both to lines to be abandoned and lines to be retained. I am sure the minister will remember stating in the debate that the new commission would handle these applications.


Order. I think we have heard enough clarifications now.


Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege, the minister stated in this house that he had been authorized by both railways to announce that all applications would be withdrawn on the day the bill went through parliament. So if all the old applications were withdrawn, these other applications must be new. This is in direct contradiction to what was said in this house.


Order. The hon. member may be right, but that is not a question of privilege.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the absent minded Minister of Transport. May I ask the minister whether he regards the proceedings to be held later this month, in which the Board of Transport Commissioners will hear the Canadian Pacific Railway application for abandonment under the old section 168 rather than the new section 134 to be a violation of his solemn assurance given to this house last fall.


Order. That question is not acceptable.


Ten o'clock.
1286	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry [Translation]
LABOUR RELATIONS tEPRESENTATION OF UNIONS BEFORE BOARD
On the orders of the day:


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Labour, but in his absence I shall nut it to his parliamentary secretary.
Did the Minister of Labour provide that in ease of an inter-union conflict involving an affiliate of the C.L.C. and an affiliate of the 'C.N.T.U., these two movements must be equally represented, namely by two representatives each.


I do not believe that the question is in order at this time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, one week ago today I asked a question of the Minister of Transport which was taken as notice by the acting minister. As reported at page 825 of Hansard for June 1 I asked whether the minister had received a telegram from local 2231 of the United Steel Workers of America at Amherst, Nova Scotia, and if steps could be taken in calling for tenders for the extension to the Pugsley terminal wharf requiring the use of domestic materials in order to provide some 15,000 to 20,000 man hours of employment in the steel industry, where unemployment is quite prevalent.
Has the minister had time during the last week to look into this matter, and can he give a reply today?


Mr. Speaker, I did have some information about this matter, but I apologize to the hon. gentleman because I have not got it with me, and I would not like to trust my memory, particularly since my recollections have so recently been called into question.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the urgency of the matter about which I asked the minister, and in view of the fact that tenders are to be called this week, could the minister undertake to give me an answer tomorrow to the question I submitted a week ago?


I will do my utmost, sir.
[Mr. Schreyer.l
DEBATES	June 8, 1967


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Minister of Transport. Similarly I directed a question to the acting minister in the minister's absence, but nothing came of it at all despite my compliments to the acting minister. Can the minister himself now answer my question, which had to do with increased accommodation for passengers of Air Canada to and from western Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I have very grave doubts whether increased accommodation could be provided without increasing the number of planes, and I do not think any planes would be available unless they were taken off some other routes. I know that the hon. gentleman, with his broad national viewpoint, would not want to suggest that, but if he can tell me where any additional planes can be had or can be brought into Canada by any air line, I would be glad to have that information.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The members of the house are here to And out from the minister whether he has any knowledge at all of these matters. I am not the one to provide him with knowledge as to what should be done with regard to the provision of transport, though I would be very glad to do so because things might thereby be improved.


The hon. gentleman would be very welcome to.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question which is directed to the Prime Minister, of which I have given him notice. Has the Prime Minister received a request to meet a delegation from western Nova Scotia to discuss the woefully inadequate ferry service between Digby and Saint John? If so, what has been his reply?


Mr. Speaker, the association in question has not been in touch with me directly but it has
June 8, 1967

exchanged correspondence with my colleague the minister of health and welfare. The request they made in their correspondence is now receiving consideration.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Transport. Is the minister of the same mind regarding this Digby-Saint John ferry service in view of the recently published Atlantic provinces transportation study and the remarks made therein? If so, can the minister give us an up to date progress report on how the study of the particular service-


Order. It seems to me that the hon. member is asking for information which should be conveyed to the house at the time of ministerial statements on motions, rather than by way of reply to a question.


Then may I rephrase my question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister any information on this study as it relates to the Digby-Saint John ferry service and, if so, when will it be made available?


Mr. Speaker, we are conducting very active negotiations with the Canadian Pacific Railway with a view to finding the best method of improving this service at the earliest possible date.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the statement made yesterday by Trans-Canada Pipe Lines that they would be forced to ration gas to the utility companies in eastern Ontario unless construction of additional facilities was started almost immediately, can the minister advise what action he or the government has taken to speed up a decision and to get this construction under way almost immediately?


Mr. Speaker, the alternative proposal of Trans-Canada Pipe Lines is presently before the National Energy Board. I presume that a decision will be taken in time to permit the looping of the present Northern Ontario line if the Great Lakes project is not approved by the federal power commission.
Inquiries of the Ministry As my hon. friend knows, this has been a very difficult situation. On our recommendation Trans-Canada presented an alternative project, which was attacked by the distributing companies at first. The distributing companies have now abandoned their own alternative projects. The whole matter is before the National Energy Board, and I cannot prejudge their decision.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister give any indication when he expects the federal power commission of the United States to hand down its decision on the Great Lakes project?


That is still a military secret, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the interest being shown in the harbour facilities at Kitimat, B.C. for the export of oil from the Athabasca tar sands, will the minister either now or in the near future make a statement on the government's position relative to the use of this port for large tonnage ocean vessels?


Order, please. I do not think this question is acceptable.


I think the use of this port will increase rapidly.


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the hon. Minister of Manpower and Immigration. Can he tell us whether he has recently met the officials of the organization known as the Estates General of French Canada, and whether this organization has asked a subsidy from the government?


I suggest that the hon. member should place his question on the order paper.
1288	COMMONS
Supply-External Affairs



The house in committee of supply, Mr. Batten in the chair.
DEPARTMENT OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS [DOT] (3:10 p.m.)
1. Administration, operation and maintenance, including payment of remuneration, subject to the approval of the Governor in Council and notwithstanding the Civii Service Act, in connection with the assignment by the Canadian government of Canadians to the staffs of the international organizations detailed in the estimates and authority to make recoverable advances in amounts not exceeding in the aggregate the amounts of the shares of those organizations of such expenses, and authority, notwithstanding the Civil Service Act, for the appointment and fixing of salaries of commissioners (international commissions for supervision and control in Indo-China), secretaries and staff by the Governor in Council; and authority, notwithstanding the Civil Service Act, for the appointment and fixing of salaries of high commissioners, ambassadors, ministers plenipotentiary, consuls, secretaries and staff by the Governor in Council; assistance and repatriation of distressed Canadian citizens and persons of Canadian domicile abroad, including their dependents; cultural relations and academic exchance programs with other countries (Details, page 118), $42,260,000.


Order, please. House again in committee of supply, estimates of the Department of External Affairs for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1968. Vote No. 1 is to be found on page 116 of the blue book of estimates, with the details thereof listed on page 118. Shall vote 1 carry?


On a point of order, Mr. Chairman, I was under the impression that the estimates of the Department of External Affairs were referred to the external affairs committee. How is it that they have come back to the house?


If I might speak to the point of order, prior to the adoption of the most recent rule change the point raised by my hon. friend would have been correct. The change recommended by the committee on procedure and adopted by the house provided that estimates can be dealt with concurrently in a standing committee and in the committee of supply. We considered yesterday whether it would be necessary to move a special motion to withdraw the estimates from the standing committee, but I believe a reading of the rule changes makes it clear that we have the flexibility to deal with estimates concurrently in a standing committee and the committee of supply.


Which rule is that?

DEBATES	June 8, 1967


May I read to the committee provisional order No. 5(g) to be found on page 51 of the book of provisional orders:
(g) When estimates are referred to standing committees they shall be referred without prejudice to the right of the commitee of supply to consider those same estimates, whether or not the standing committees have reported on them.


Mr. Chairman, in rising to take advantage of this procedure to initiate a discussion on external affairs and, more particularly, on developments in the Middle East, I hope I will not be considered discourteous if I am not able to remain in the house after my own contribution because of engagements which are very difficult indeed for me to change.
Mr. Chairman, since we last discussed external affairs on May 24 there have been tragic and dangerous developments in the Middle East, developments resulting in armed conflict, in bitter fighting, much loss of life and great destruction in that holy land. It is sad-it is more than sad-to read in the press reports of fighting in Jerusalem, of an armoured column moving against Nazareth, of firing in Bethlehem; but that is what has happened.
The United Nations security council, which has been exercising the responsibility given to it under the charter as the principal agency of the United Nations for the maintenance of international peace and security in avoiding the scourge of war has, as hon. members know, been successful in passing a resolution calling for a cease fire. That was the night before last. It is regrettable indeed that a resolution was not passed some days ago which might have put the support of the security council and all its members behind the Secretary General in a way which might have made the cease fire resolution unnecessary.
Hon. members will recall that the Canadian delegate on the security council did his best to introduce a resolution of this kind at the very beginning of the crisis. Indeed, it was on his initiative and that of the member of the council from Denmark that the council was called together at once. But nothing was achieved by that earlier initiative. Some members of council who at that time objected to this initiative have recently become the most articulate in demanding that action in regard to a cease fire be taken at once-now.
There is no quarrel with that position which is being taken, but it is unfortunate that a position along these lines was not taken by them some days ago. Perhaps this is an
June 8, 1967

example of the interrelationship, the interaction of military developments and diplomatic activity. In any event, so far as the United Nations is concerned the cease fire resolution was adopted unanimously. I think we can all take satisfaction from the fact that the resolution was concurred in by all permanent members of the council as well as the non-permanent members.
That cease fire resolution, according to the information I had received up to the time I came into the house, has been accepted by only one country involved in the fighting- Jordan. It has been accepted by Israel, with the not unreasonable qualification that their acceptance depends on the acceptance by the other governments and peoples engaged in the fighting. It has not been accepted by any Arab state except Jordan.
The Canadian member of the security council, Mr. Ignatieff, who is acting with great effectiveness and distinction as a member of the security council, as you would expect-


Hear, hear.


-yesterday introduced a
resolution, not to delay the cease fire resolution but to give the president of the council and the Secretary General of the United Nations the authority of the council in doing all they can to see that the cease fire is carried out. That resolution is now before the security council. I think the council is meeting at this moment. It is to be hoped that that resolution, or a better one if it can be evolved by any amendment, or another resolution, may be adopted by all members and especially by the permanent members, so the authority of the United Nations can be brought to bear on any efforts the Secretary General or the president of the council can make to ensure that this cease fire is not only adopted but made effective after adoption.
[DOT] (3:20 p.m.)


Would the Prime Minister allow a question? What has the government in mind as to means whereby the cease fire will be made effective? Is it the suggestion that troops will be sent to the area in question to preserve and enforce the peace, or is this merely a generality?


I am coming to that later, Mr. Chairman. At the moment I can only say it would be premature to speculate on what kind of action may be required and may be possible until the representatives of the United Nations, the Secretary General and
Supply-External Affairs the president of the council, or anybody else agreed on by the security council, can get to the spot and then report as to what may be required. Later I will have something to say about the machinery that is already there.
Although it may take a certain amount of time, I think it is important to examine the background of the present situation. That is almost essential if we are to understand what has happened recently, and the difficulties that are now facing and will continue to face the United Nations even if the fighting stops under the resolution calling for a cease fire. The origin of the recent tragedy, the recent conflict, goes far back, years back, into earlier failures of the United Nations to deal with what used to be called the Palestine question, in a way that not only provided for a state of Israel but provided for that state living in peaceful co-operation with its neighbours.
Mr. Chairman, I am informed by a note just sent to me, if I may revert to what I said a few moments ago, that the Secretary General has just read to the security council a message from the representative of the United Arab Republic to the security council, that the U.A.R. accepts the cease fire provided that Israel stops fighting.


Hear, hear.


At least these two governments presumably are in agreement on that point, that they both should stop fighting.
The earlier failures have a direct bearing on what has happened in recent weeks and months and years. The prelude to the immediate struggle has been certain moves by the U.A.R. in recent weeks to meet a situation which they claimed was threatening their security and threatening the peace. They were thinking especially of incidents and counter incidents on the Israeli-Syrian border.
There are two elements of the situation which are before us now and that also go back a good many years, elements which I think should be mentioned before we can deal with what can be done to improve the situation at the moment. One which has been very much in our minds is the situation regarding innocent passage through the straits of Tiran into the gulf of Aqaba which, when it was considered ten years ago in the United Nations, in 1956-57, was felt to be a very important matter both in terms of international law and in terms of Israeli development and survival. But it is a much more important matter now because of the developments that have
1290	COMMONS
Supply-External Affairs taken place on the coast of the gulf of Aqaba, occupied by and now part of the state of Israel, with a port that has been established there which is the main port for importing Israel's oil requirements.
The Canadian position in regard to this matter was made perfectly clear in the assembly of the United Nations on February 26, 1957, more than ten years ago. What was said then was reprinted in two white papers called "The Crisis in the Middle East" which, if hon. members have not read them recently, I think they would find very interesting in the light of the developments that have occurred in the last few weeks. What I said in 1957 in the general assembly on this particular point about the question of the gulf of Aqaba and the straits of Tiran, was:
In our view-
That was the Canadian delegation's view.
-it should be agreed and affirmed by us-
I meant the assembly.
-that there should be no interference with innocent passage through or any assertion of belligerent rights in the straits of Tiran.
We have not altered that position, Mr. Chairman. I repeated this in the House of Commons on March 15, 1957, as recorded at page 2355 of Hansard for that date, and I tried then to emphasize the danger that would be incurred in dealing with this matter in New York if some agreed action could not be taken that would be effective in dealing with this situation in the gulf of Aqaba. That position taken then is certainly relevant to the position that governments-including ours-have taken in the last few weeks on this question.
We take the position, in regard to the legal situation, that these are international waters and that the gulf of Aqaba is an international gulf. But if there is doubt about that legal question, and there is doubt about it, I would hope the matter can be settled by the International Court of Justice. Irrespective of the legal position, however, no action should be taken by the riparian states which would interfere with the right of access to the gulf.
As hon. members know, in 1957 a contingent of the United Nations emergency force occupied a strategic point called Sharm el Sheikh which commanded the navigation channel through the strait of Tiran. As was stated at that time in New York, that force was there to preserve the right of access to the gulf of Aqaba. Of course it has been my view, and I think the view of the house, that one of the measures leading to the difficulties

DEBATES	June 8. 1367
that culminated in this conflict-it was a tragedy-was when the United Nations force was withdrawn from that point as well as from the border between Israel and the U.A.R.
All this does not mean that the United Nations emergency force was a failure. On the contrary, it was successful in maintaining the peace in that area for ten and a half years. Surely the conclusion to be drawn from this experience is that it is a time not for banishing United Nations forces but for stronger United Nations forces.


Hear, hear.


Another conclusion that
should be drawn is that when these forces are set up, in the way the force was set up ten and a half years ago by the United Nations, we should be as careful as it is possible to be that the basic authority of the forces is laid down, as I think for instance we have it laid down in regard to the United Nations force in Cyprus. It may be that the legal positions we took in 1956 and 1957, along with many other states, about the withdrawal of the United Nations emergency force may seem very academic now, but it won't be academic if the United Nations is asked to move in there again.
Therefore, Mr. Chairman, perhaps I may be pardoned if I go into that matter in some detail with a view to avoiding in future the difficulties we have encountered in recent weeks in regard to United Nations peace keeping.
[DOT] (3:30 p.m.)
On March 15, 1957, as reported at page 2357 of Hansard, I said:
But in the arrangements made and in the agreement which I have referred to-
That is the establishment of the United Nations emergency force on Egyptian soil.
-the United Nations, which established this force to do certain tasks, clearly has a right to be consulted as to whether and when these tasks have been discharged, as it would if they were to be extended. From this, it follows in our view, and this is the view of the secretary general also, that if Egypt should at any time make a request for UNEF's withdrawal, the appropriate procedure would be for that request to go first to the advisory committee on UNEF through the secretary general. There it would be discussed by the committee which was set up for that purpose by the assembly, and if necessary and desirable the whole matter could then be referred to the full assembly for decision. And therefore any question of whether UNEF should be withdrawn would become a matter for discussion with and decision by the United Nations.
June 8, 1967	COMMONS
As I said at that time, this was our government's understanding of the procedure which should be followed. It was not done on this occasion. I do not intend to be critical of the secretary general, because anyone who knows the circumstances under which he was operating at that time and the attitude taken by certain governments which had large contingents in the United Nations emergency force will appreciate the difficulties he was facing.


Mr. Chairman, may I ask the right hon. gentleman a question? Did the secretary general consult at least with the advisory committee? I understand he did at one meeting.


Yes.


But only at one meeting.


Yes. He had one meeting of a committee of contributors. There was a second meeting, but that meeting of the advisory committee took place after the decision had been made by the secretary general to recall the emergency force.
Again, I should like to refer back to 1957 in the hope that this kind of situation will not be repeated in the future. I shall quote from a memorandum I made about a conversation I had with Mr. Hammarskjold on March 12, 1957. The secretary general's position-Mr. Hammarskjold-was that Egypt could not order UNEF to withdraw without renouncing the consent given to the original entry of the force. This could not be done unilaterally because that agreement was conditional on the functions which the force was performing in Egypt in accordance with assembly resolutions. Undoubtedly-and I am referring to the secretary general's conversation with me-in considering the question of withdrawal the assembly would be primarily concerned with whether UNEF had completed the functions which the assembly had given it. If the assembly decided that these functions had been fulfilled, it would recommend that UNEF be withdrawn. However, if the assembly decided that UNEF's functions were not fulfilled it would probably recommend that the force should not be withdrawn. Either way, however, the assembly could do no more than recommend. It could not give orders to Egypt.
That, of course, is the situation now in respect of the operation of any United Nations force on any foreign territory. It can only give orders when it acts under chapter VII of the United Nations charter which deals with action as a result of a security council resolution. We know what has happened in
DEBATES	1291
Supply-External Affairs this particular situation. UNEF was recalled. I think it is unfortunate that this happened. The Canadian contingent was recalled from UNEF in circumstances which were very unfortunate and unhappy indeed. They were recalled for reasons given to us by the United Nations secretary general who asked that we take such action in 48 hours. The reasons for this which he passed on and which had been sent to him by the government of the United Arab Republic were reasons which we did not accept. We let the government in Cairo know quite clearly that we did not accept them as valid in any way, shape or form.
A few weeks ago, when this crisis began, we were faced in the very beginning with the same old problem of ten years ago. We were faced with a statement of policy by the government of the United Arab Republic that passage through the gulf of Aqaba to Elath, the Israeli port, was to be denied and that, as well, UNEF was to be withdrawn. Well, we knew or should have known the significance of this. We had been warned ten years before in no uncertain terms as to the course Israel would take if that demand were made. They had said, and repeated a few weeks ago, that denial of free access through the gulf to their port would be considered by them as an act of aggression. They said that ten years ago, they repeated it a few weeks ago, and war broke out. The United Nations ordered a cease fire as they did in 1956. But, as in 1956, the problem remains, that is, the problem of dealing with the situations on the frontier and in the gulf and the ultimate problem of dealing with the relations between the state of Israel and its neighbours.
It is not enough to deal with these immediate situations. It is not enough to bring about a cease fire, important as that is. It is not enough even to stop the fighting, vital as that is. There are other problems which must be settled if the cease fire is to be effective in producing a peace settlement and peace. So we have the other problems which faced us in 1957 facing us again today. What about withdrawal of the forces from occupied territories, with or without guarantees? What about withdrawal of Israeli forces from Sharm el Sheik where they are now? They withdrew once before. They withdrew before on the very definite understanding and indeed, in so far as their bilateral relations with the United States are concerned, on the commitment that if they withdrew from Sharm el Sheik and other parts of the Sinai peninsula this would be done as part of a pledge which would
June 8, 1967

Supply-External Affairs include a United States commitment to see that the gulf was kept open. I have documents here which confirm that. I am sure some of my hon. friends have read these documents. There is an aide-memoire handed to the ambassador of Israel by the secretary of state of the United States on February 11, 1957. I venture to suggest that if that document had not been in the hands of the government of Israel it might have been most difficult if not impossible at that moment to get the Israeli forces back behind their original frontiers.
This particular document reads as follows:
With respect to the Gulf of Aqaba and access thereto, the United States believes that the gulf comprehends international waters and that no nation has the right to prevent free and innocent passage in the gulf and through the straits giving access thereto.
Then it continues and the last paragraph reads as follows:
In the absence of some overriding decision to the contrary, as by the International Court of Justice-
That decision might be taken in the future; we do not know.
-the United States, on behalf of vessels of United States registry, is prepared to exercise the right of free and innocent passage and to join with others to secure general recognition of this right.
[DOT] (3:40 p.m.)
In speaking to that in the House of Commons at that time, on March 15, I associated myself with that principle and that point of view and emphasized that the withdrawal of Israel's civil and military forces from Sharm el Sheik was made not on an assurance contained in any general assembly resolution except that of February 2, which had been passed a few weeks before and was rather ambiguous in its terms, but on certain assumptions and expectations which the government of Israel had at that time and which they announced to the general assembly.


Mr. Chairman, may I ask the right hon. gentleman whether any other members of the assembly expressed agreement with those assumptions stated by the government of Israel?


Yes, Mr. Chairman, there were members of the assembly who questioned these assumptions and the stand taken by other delegates that there was or should be any package deal. The position taken by them was that Israel had been the aggressor at


that time and that her forces should withdraw behind the line from which they commenced the aggression without any commitments, conditions or qualifications of any kind.
The government of Israel had a different point of view. Their forces did withdraw, but they withdrew on certain understandings which the government had received primarily from the United States. Mrs. Meir was their foreign secretary then and she made it perfectly clear for her government that this was the reason they were withdrawing at that time. That, of course, was not accepted by the assembly as such because the assembly insisted technically that the withdrawal should be unconditional.


Was there some guarantee or any agreement signed by the United States, the Soviet union and France with reference to access to the gulf of Aqaba?


Yes, there was a tripartite
guarantee, which I think went back to 1950, guaranteeing the territorial integrity of Israel. The Soviet union did not take part in it, but since that time, in the latter 1950's, some doubt was thrown on the validity of that guarantee by certain statements of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. So far as I know, I do not think the government of Israel is relying very heavily at the present time or in recent months on that particular tripartite guarantee. There was a very real and genuine understanding on the part of the government of Israel that they should be guaranteed the right of access to the gulf, and it was on that understanding, they claim, that they withdrew their forces behind the lines from which they had begun to fight.
I mention all this because we are facing or may be facing very shortly a similar situation. This time I hope that during the very difficult diplomatic negotiations which will take place it is made quite clear just what is going to be the situation in these waters and on the U.A.R.-Israel boundaries before the necessary steps which should be taken are taken. I repeat that this can be done and I hope it will be done in agreement with the riparian states on the gulf of Aqaba and with the United Arab Republic. Every effort certainly should be made to bring about that agreement. This can be done if the will is there and without prejudice to the legal position, in order to maintain inviolate the Israeli point of view, the practical point of view, concerning the right of Israeli ships or ships
June 8, 1967

going to Israeli ports-there is only one-to use the gulf of Aqaba.
I have mentioned these two points, though they do go back into history, because we will be facing them both very shortly and it is well to know about the experience of the past in order to avoid the same mistakes in the future, if that can be done.
Perhaps I should say a word or two about the more general issue we face, I am not going to attempt to establish responsibility for today's tragedy. Undoubtedly that will be done in due course. However, I think in looking at the question of responsibility we must make a distinction between the occasion of the war and the causes of the war. I have already said that the causes of the conflict go very deep indeed. That is why, as I said a few moments ago, a cease fire and an armistice, if that follows, can only be considered as a means to an end. Nothing was done about this after 1956. Some of us gave warning at the United Nations at that time that if nothing was done to bring about peace and a lasting settlement there would be trouble. This has happened. Are we to repeat these failures as we again approach this problem, diplomatically, through the United Nations, this time through the security council? I think I am misquoting a famous quotation when I say, those who ignore the lessons of history are doomed to repeat its tragedies.
That is why our ambassador at the security council made a very short intervention after the cease fire resolution, although a very impressive one, in which he said:
We note th