Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present the ninth report of the standing committee on finance, trade and economic affairs prepared, as usual, in English and French.

In this report we return to the house the text of the resolution on customs tariff.
[Editor's note: For report referred, to above, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]


Mr. Speaker, I wish to table copies in English and French of the order which I, as Minister of Labour, have made appointing Hon. Arthur I. Smith of the Superior Court of Quebec as an industrial inquiry commission to inquire into conditions of labour unrest in the three St. Lawrence ports.


Has the minister leave to table this document?


Agreed.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-203, to amend the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs Act.


Explain.


The purpose of this bill is to amend the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs Act to provide, so far as parliament may do so, that manufacturers
and marketers be required to indicate the life expectancy of their products. Many manufacturers now have a good idea how long a toaster or a light bulb will last, for example. If this bill is approved the consumer will also have that knowledge.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I intended directing my question to the Minister of Agriculture or his parliamentary assistant. In their absence I shall direct it to the Minister of Forestry and Rural Development. I am sure the minister is aware of the implications of the sale of artificial dairy products in Canada. Can he advise the house whether his department has any plan at this time to safeguard the interests of the Canadian dairy industry?


Mr. Speaker, I think the Canadian Dairy Commission has already been notified of the problem and the Minister of Agriculture will be in a position to report on that matter later on next week.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In its search for revenues to make up for the loss under the late Bill C-193, is the government giving consideration to proposing a capital gains tax?


The government is looking at all sources of revenue. Of course a capital gains tax would not produce very much revenue immediately even if it were to be introduced.
March 1. 1968

Inquiries of the Ministry [Translation]


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Revenue.
Following a recommendation of the Carter report, will the minister agree to grant tax exemptions to working mothers for the care of their children?


I think this question could easily be put on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
My question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Considering the leading role Canada has played in Rhodesian affairs, particularly with regard to sanctions, is the hon. gentleman's department arranging a face to face consultation with Sir Alec Douglas-Home subsequent to his talks today with Prime Minister Harold Wilson?


I shall have to wait until a report of those talks is given to the Canadian government.


A supplementary question. Could the Secretary of State for External Affairs indicate whether there will be an October commonwealth conference, and whether it will be held in Ottawa?


I cannot add to what has already been said on this subject. No decision has been taken. The Canadian government is in consultation with other commonwealth governments, and when a decision on this matter has been reached the house will be advised.


On the orders of the day:
My question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Now that the
[Mr. Sharp.)
government has apparently reached a definite decision on the future of medicare, will the hon. gentleman soon announce on motions or on another suitable occasion the government's plans to increase the number of trained medical personnel?


The plans for that purpose have already been indicated to parliament.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct this question to the Minister of Finance. Has the government reached a decision with regard to including fur farmers under the Farm Credit Corporation? If not, when may a decision be expected in this regard?


I think the Farm Credit Corporation comes under the jurisdiction of my colleague the Minister of Agriculture.


Any amendments to the Farm Credit Corporation Act will be announced in the house in the normal fashion. At the present time no changes in the ambit of the act are contemplated.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. The Minister of Trade and Commerce stated an hour ago that he favours dealing with fiscal measures before there is any adjournment of the house. May I ask whether this represents government policy?


I have not seen a text of what my colleague has said, but I am sure that whatever he did say would be fully consistent with government policy. When the hon. gentleman said the Minister of Trade and Commerce had made a statement he used the word "favours", and I thought he was going on to say he favoured a particular candidate. I still hope he does.
March 1, 1968


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to address a question to the Minister of National Defence. Has he received a resolution passed by the legislature of Prince Edward Island urging the federal government to define and establish a strategic military function for the Canadian forces base at Summerside, assuring its continuation at present or increased levels of usefulness and activity?


Order, please. The hon. member knows it is not sufficient simply to ask whether a telegram or resolution has been received.


Then may I rephrase my question and ask the minister if he would take this resolution under advisement in the hope that he might be able to give a reassuring statement to the house and to the people of Prince Edward Island in the near future.


Mr. Speaker, I think I can give that reassuring statement right now. On Monday 1 had the privilege of meeting with the premier and a delegation from the province who came to present a brief on the use of the Summer-side base. I have declared, and I repeat, that the base is not going to be closed, that we are trying to maintain the highest possible level of military activity there, that we have received suggestions from the province which we are studying, and that we are going to meet in a couple of weeks' time to decide whether we can implement them.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is also directed to the Minister of National Defence. I would like to ask the minister if it was an information leak that Canadian armed forces personnel will be reduced to 90,000, or is this a policy decision being considered by his department and the government?


The way I understand it, Mr. Speaker, that is a speculative story. We have fixed the floor at 100,000 and I hope we can stay there. This is what I consider a minimum to meet the commitments that we have.
Inquiries of the Ministry SHIPPING


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of Transport. In view of the serious dangers to the port of Montreal this coming shipping season-I believe the minister knows what those risks are-would he take into consideration the recommendations of the last eight inquiries into this situation and bring about some action before the shipping season opens in earnest next month?


Mr. Speaker, some action has already been taken. As my hon. friend might expect, the National Harbours Board has already acted in one of the most critical areas relating to pilferage. They have hired some of the most competent people available in the business to establish a police system to bring this abuse under control. They have confidence that the plans they have embarked on can cope, hopefully quite adequately, with what has been a very serious problem. Although an additional inquiry is being made I am sure that wherever action is possible, based on previous inquiries, it will not be held up just because another inquiry is under way.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Labour. Has the minister heard of any indications of an intention to hold lock-outs at the grain terminal plants in the port of Montreal this year?


have heard some rumours but I have no definite information.


You will wait for the crisis to develop. This is government by crisis.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Transport. In view of mounting criticism from many ports in Canada, including Montreal, is the government considering a major reorganization of finance and administration policies with respect to these ports, and if so when will it be implemented?

March 1, 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry


This is a very major policy question, Mr. Speaker, but a study is being done to review the present operations of all ports, the different administrations which apply to them, and the relative success of the different forms of administration. Once this study has been done we will be in a better position to know what changes, if any, should be recommended so far as port administration is concerned.


As a supplementary question, can the minister say whether the government has in mind a method by which there would be a greater degree of local autonomy given to the ports?


Inevitably, Mr. Speaker, this is one of the questions which will be raised and hopefully answered, or at least dealt with in the inquiry. It is one of the things we would have to know before considering any alternative form of administration, whether it should be the same across the country or whether we need to have different forms to meet local conditions in different parts of the country.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Labour. Is the minister in a position to report on the threatened strike of the employees of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Company of Flin Flon, Manitoba, which was set for today?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for having given me notice of his question. I might say that the strike deadline constituted a serious threat to the economy of Flin Flon. When I learned of it I dispatched a special mediator to the area about a week ago. I am happy to say I have just received a report that a tentative settlement was agreed upon yesterday and approved by a vote of the union members taken last night. It would seem that the threatened strike has been averted.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for

the minister of Indian affairs. Has he received any representations on behalf of John Stephen Marshall of the Eskasoni Indian reservation? I understand these representations were made by St. Francis Xavier University and the John Howard Society with regard to the charge of arson and subsequent severe sentence.
In view of the sad and regrettable circumstances surrounding the case would the minister please check with the Solicitor General and the Minister of Justice to see whether a reassessment could be made of this case?


Mr. Speaker, I am quite certain the hon. member would not wish me to comment on the quality of justice dispensed by Canadian courts. Recourse is available, and I understand an appeal is being organized on behalf of the man. Some of my officials think there are some extenuating circumstances, in that a new house was being constructed for the man and there was some evidence that he was in a hurry to get into it.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to pose a supplementary question with regard to John Stephen Marshall. In view of the fact that the minister did not indicate in his reply that he will institute an inquiry, may I direct my question to the Solicitor General. Is he aware that this man has suffered long term unemployment, which is rampant in his region; that he suffered from alcoholism, which is rampant across Canada; that he could not speak English, only Mic-Mac; and was not represented by defence counsel? Could he, in view of these extenuating circumstances, cause an inquiry to be held?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot add anything to the answer given by my colleague the Minister for Indian Affairs and Northern Development, but I will discuss the matter with him.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. I apologize for not having given him notice, but there is a good deal of
March 1, 1968

interest in the west with regard to the shipping of Fernie coal to the coast. Has the minister anything further to report to the house with regard to the shipment of this coal to Canadian Pacific ports?


Mr. Speaker, there is not very much I can add to what has been said already. Negotiations with the company are continuing, and I am still hopeful that the coal will be carried by Canadian carriers to the lower mainland port. I still believe this is essential so far as Canadian interests are concerned, and we are assuming that this will be the case.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the hon. Minister of Industry.
In view of the fact that some industries would readily settle in Abitibi, an area which has been neglected for many years, does the hon. minister intend to include that area in the list of designated areas?


Mr. Speaker, the selection of designated areas is made after studying the unemployment statistics. There is no question of discretion or selection other than that based on the study of unemployment statistics.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question. Is the minister aware of the fact that several hundred people in Abitibi, particularly in La Sarre area, are forced to go and find work in the neighbouring province of Ontario? Is he also aware of the fact that this latter region is considered to be a designated area and that the industries which are now thinking of locating at La Sarre would consider going to Ontario, if Abitibi is not recognized as a designated area?


Order.


Mr. Speaker, has the minister received representations by the organized bodies of the northwestern Quebec area asking him to include the area in the list of designated areas?


Not personally, Mr. Speaker, but I shall inquire into it, in order to find out if representations have been made to the department.
Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether he is aware of the serious implications of Bill S-34, to amend the dairy commission act, which was introduced in the Senate by his party's agricultural critic.


Order, please. The hon. member is asking for an expression of opinion, and I suggest the question is not in order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Acting Prime Minister whether, in planning the work of this house for the remainder of this session, any consideration is being given to setting aside a day or two to discuss the constitutional questions the Prime Minister had in mind before the defeat of the government.


Mr. Speaker, the first thing I should like to say to the hon. gentleman is that I am sure all of us in this house are very glad to see him in his seat today after a long interval of serious illness.


Hear, hear.


The Prime Minister indicated, I think on Wednesday, that the government would have been happy to consider in this house last week the constitutional conference and its implications. However,, there was not a general disposition on the part of hon. gentlemen opposite to accommodate the government in that regard. We regard this as a very important matter, and we will have to consider this further manifestation of interest in this vital problem that faces the Canadian people at this time.


Mr. Speaker, would you request the Acting Prime Minister to give us several days advance notice of any plan to hold such a debate?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the house will be acquainted with the program which faces parliament in its ensuing days.

March 1. 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry FISHERIES


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the Minister of Trade and Commerce is reported to be leaving his present portfolio, can he give the house an up to date progress report in respect of the recommendations of the Mclvor commission on fresh water fish marketing?


Mr. Speaker, we still have this under consideration, and we are in active consultation with the western provinces, particularly Manitoba. We are developing a program which will allow us to work together, federally and provincially, to evolve a plan which we hope will help the fresh water fishermen in the marketing of their fish.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce a supplementary question. We realize it takes two tries to stay in. How many tries is it going to take to get out?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, several days ago I asked the Minister of Agriculture whether he would look into the problem in relation to the heavy importation of vegetable oils in direct competition with domestic oils which are now in oversupply. Is the minister prepared to answer that question now?


Mr. Speaker, I do not have the answer at the present time. I understand the supplementary estimates are to be considered today, including those of the Department of Agriculture. During our consideration of those estimates I will undertake to answer the question, if that is satisfactory.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I also have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. What is

the government's reaction to the request by the Canadian Federation of Agriculture for a minimum support price of $5 per hundredweight for manufacturing milk, and will some action be taken immediately in this area in order to assist Canada's dairy industry?


Order, please. I suggest the point made a moment ago by the Minister of Agriculture is valid. In a few minutes we are going to be considering the estimates of the Department of Agriculture, and this question might be asked at that time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Transport whether he is taking urgent steps to improve security at large Canadian airports, in view of the robbery that is reported to have taken place at the Montreal airport last night.


Mr. Speaker, it will be necessary to get more information than I now have in order to know just what happened and what measures may be required. There is always a cut-off point in respect of security as between the cost of providing it and the benefits resulting. This is something under constant consideration by the Department of National Defence, the Department of Transport and other departments.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister any reason to suspect that this robbery was carried out by a paramilitary organization?


Yes, I think it was.


In green uniforms?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. For some reason unknown to me he appears to be in a fairly amiable mood today. I would like to ask the minister whether in view of the possible pending change in his status he can tell the house that he is prepared to tidy up and
March 1, 1968

complete a very important piece of unfinished business while he still occupies his present portfolio, namely the establishment of the base line co-ordinates from which our fishing zones will be measured.


Mr. Speaker, I wish the rules of the game permitted me to comment on what my hon. friend has said.


That has never stopped you
before.


Perhaps I can do that outside the chamber later. I would like to say that whatever be my status, the government will continue to make progress on that matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the submission of the report and the findings of the special committee which studied the Bay of Fundy tidal power potential, can the minister advise the house when this report will be available to members generally and the public?


Mr. Speaker, I had the report yesterday but I have not yet had time to read it. I plan to do so over the week end, and I will answer the question on Monday.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Acting Prime Minister. Has the federal government received a request from the government of Ontario for assistance in providing relief to the people of southwestern Ontario who suffered severe flood damage in the early part of February? If so, what decision has been reached?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware that any request has come from the government of the province of Ontario.
Inquiries of the Ministry MANPOWER


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare, who was floating around the chamber a few moments ago.


Explain.


He is another loose fish. In view of the fact that the minister is not present at the moment I will put a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. On February 19 I raised this matter with the Minister of Trade and Commerce, who was Acting Prime Minister on that occasion. In view of other events on that particular day he may not have passed on the question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration.
Has the minister received the report from the Canadian Association for Adult Education on manpower policy? Also, has the government had an opportunity to consider changes in the present manpower policy to make it more effective in terms of dealing with manpower needs in the various provinces?


Mr. Speaker, we
received, read and analysed the report, which contains suggestions, some well-founded, others less.
When this department was created two years ago, there were about 150,000 workers in training. Last year there were 242,000, which is a great improvement. There are much fewer drop-outs than before.
Anyhow, some criticisms are valid and we will take the association's recommendations which we consider right.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of these criticisms, and other criticisms that have since been expressed by various provincial departments, will there be an opportunity in the near future for provincial representatives to meet with the federal government to discuss possible changes in the program?


Mr. Speaker, we meet quite regularly with the provincial authorities, and

March 1, 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry we talk these problems over. We will continue to do so, but no radical change in our policy is contemplated.


On the orders ot the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the hon. Minister of Transport.
In view of the fact that a number of C.N.R. employees, and in particular French-speaking station agents working in the province of Quebec, are required to make their reports and receive their instructions in a language other than their mother tongue, will steps be taken without delay to correct this situation along the lines of the Laurendeau-Dunton report?


Mr. Speaker, I will take this question as notice and I shall answer it soon.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Finance whether he is in a position this morning to disclose to the house the status of the exchange fund reserves as of the end of February.


Mr. Speaker, I made a statement this morning disclosing the position of the exchange fund. With the permission of the house I would be happy to read it now. It is very short. I do not know whether this would be in order.


Is this agreed?


Agreed.


I announced today that Canada's holdings of gold and United States dollars, which are made up of holdings of the exchange fund account, the Minister of Finance and the Bank of Canada, were $2,490 million in terms of U.S. dollars on February 29, 1968. The corresponding figure for January 31, 1968, was $2,175.3 million. I recalled my press release of February 26 in which I announced that Canada had taken steps to draw the equivalent of United States $426
[Mr. Marchand.)
million from the International Monetary Fund.
This drawing has now taken place and the full amount is included in Canada's official reserves. The drawing included a sum of U.S. $241 million which represented Canada's creditor position in the International Monetary Fund at the time of the drawing. On January 31 Canada's creditor position was U.S. $243.1 million. Perhaps I can interpret this for the benefit of the house by saying-


What is the net loss?


-that the change, after taking into account the transfer, was a reduction in our reserves of $113,400,000.


How much has the cost of living gone down?


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The minister says "after taking the transfer into consideration". Does he mean it is $113 million in addition to $426 million?


No, Mr. Speaker; the other way around. What I meant was that after eliminating that transfer, if I had not made the transfer at all the change would have been a reduction of $113,400,000.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I ask the Minister of Finance whether the $426 million which has been transferred or withdrawn from the International Monetary Fund represents the total amount in dollars that Canada has on deposit with the International Monetary Fund.


As I explained at the time, we were transferring assets of our own representing our creditor position with the International Monetary Fund and the equivalent of our gold deposits into our accounts, so they would be visible and would indicate to those who might otherwise be speculating in the Canadian dollar that we had these assets available now and they would be used. We still have intact all our borrowing rights under the International Monetary Fund.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Finance whether these adjustments in our reserve account involved the actual transfer of gold from the United States to Canada or vice versa.
March 1, 1968


Mr. Speaker, I speak without checking the facts precisely, but I do not think any of our reduction in reserves has been represented by a reduction in our gold stocks. I believe it has all been represented by a reduction in our holdings of United States dollars.


On the orders of the day:
I have a related question, Mr. Speaker. I ask the Minister of Finance whether he has yet made any decision as to when action will be taken to deal with the entries and adjustments that will have to be made to take into account the Expo deficit.


Mr. Speaker, I would expect that would be dealt with in the new session. As I explained to the hon. member for Northumberland, we do not have to raise money for that purpose; that money has already been raised. It is a matter of accounting. That will be taken into account in the next fiscal year.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare, whose department makes the fitness and amateur sports grants. Has the government been consulted by the Canadian Olympic committee concerning Canada's participation in the Olympic games, and has the government a view to express on this subject?


Mr. Speaker, the Department of National Health and Welfare has not been consulted with respect to the position taken by the Canadian representative on the international Olympic committee.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder if the minister could give us an assurance that Canada will follow the traditional Olympic pattern of keeping politics and the games separate.
Inquiries of the Ministry TRADE


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I should like to direct to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. In view of the widespread concern in the prairie provinces with respect to the coming into effect of the new world wheat agreement on July 1, can the minister give us now a progress report on the signing of this agreement by the various signatory governments so it will become effective on that date?


There has been widespread signing of the protocol with the intention of signing the agreement on July 1. We are in the process of working to ensure confirmation from a number of countries.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question on the Rhodesian question to the Acting Prime Minister. It is prompted by the observation of the former British prime minister regarding the failure of sanctions. Can the minister advise us whether the government has the intention, or retains the intention, to take an initiative in the Security Council with regard to this matter?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we have been taking an initiative in the Security Council, where we hope the report of the Secretary General will be discussed fairly soon. It will all depend on the conclusions reached with regard to the effectiveness of the sanctions. It would be wrong for anyone to say the sanctions have not been a success, and it would also be wrong to say they have succeeded to the extent that was anticipated. But undoubtedly they are being felt in Rhodesia.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare in his capacity as government house leader. In view

March 1, 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry of the fact that the house lost a number of days in its business schedule due to the bungling of the government, would he accept the proposition that from now until the end of this session the house might sit on Saturdays?
Kon. Allan J. MacEachen (Minister of National Health and Welfare): This would be agreeable to me, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address my question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare in his capacity as house leader. Is it the intention of the government to call together the public accounts committee for an organization meeting and if so when does he intend to do this?


The motion to refer the public accounts to the committee was approved some time ago, and I assumed that the former chairman of the committee would bring the members of that committee together. However, if there is anything the house leader should do in this matter I would be glad to do it.


I must suggest to the minister that at present the committee has no chairman, and it is the responsibility of the government to call an organization meeting of the committee.


May I ask
the minister whether he is not aware of the fact that the resolution referring the public accounts has not been carried but is still on the order paper? May I ask when it is intended to call the committee together for an organization meeting?


We can immediately call the organization meeting for the beginning of next week.


I wonder if the minister as house leader could tell us when the important work of the committee on privileges and elections may begin in order that it can complete its work in time for the next election.


Before we depart from the matter of public accounts, may I say that I

would be happy early next week to move the motion to refer the public accounts to the standing committee.


Mr. Speaker, if it is in order at this time I should like to rise on a matter of privilege. My point of privilege is a personal one, in that I think the government house leader implied that I should be responsible for calling the public accounts committee together for an organization meeting. I should like to make it perfectly clear that it is the responsibility of the government to call committees together for organization meetings, at which time the committees choose their chairmen.
The minister will recall that some three months ago he was asked by the house leader of the official opposition to call a meeting of this committee. Later the Leader of the Opposition asked the Prime Minister whether the government would call a meeting of the public accounts committee and he said he would look into the matter. A month ago I addressed a question to the minister on this matter and he too said he would look into it.
I wish it to be abundantly clear, Mr. Speaker, that it is not the responsibility of the former chairman of the committee to call an organization meeting.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker yesterday the hon. member for Cape Breton South (Mr. Mac-Innis) asked me a question which I would like to answer today.
Under the Income Tax Act, an individual must include, for income tax purposes, any amount received as superannuation or pension benefits.
In the case of an employer who has established a plan providing regular payments to retired employees, those payments represent superannuation or pension benefits, even if the employer is not compelled according to contractual clauses to make such payments.


Approaching the matter from another point of view I should like to ask the Minister of
March 1, 1968

National Revenue the following question. In the event that retired miners in Cape Breton choose not to report the gratuities they receive, under what regulation can the government or anyone else consider them as pension payments?


Under the Income Tax Act, a taxpayer is required to declare the payments he receives during the year, and if he does not do it, we must act according to the law.


I have a further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I would ask the minister to review the circumstances under which these payments are made in respect to old age security. He will then find that there is an opportunity for anyone receiving the gratuity not to report it in his income declaration.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder if the Acting Prime Minister can inform the house when the flag on the peace tower will be flown at half mast, in memory of one democratic process which died in this chamber last week.
Kon. Paul Martin (Secretary of State for External Affairs): My hon. friend should recall that the government received a very large vote of confidence.


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, as a member from Vancouver may I
Supply-Agriculture
direct a most urgent question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the recent statement by Premier Bennett in the British Columbia legislature that only discussions, not negotiations, are going on relative to a new port development in the lower mainland area of British Columbia, will the minister kindly inform us as to the present situation, in view of the importance of this matter? May I remind him that on a recent visit to Vancouver he made a commitment on behalf of the government with regard to port development in that area.
Is the minister not answering my question?
[DOT] (11:50 a.m.)

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Batten in the chair.


Research-
5c. Administration, operation and maintenance- to extend the purposes of vote 5 of the main estimates for 1967-68 to include a contribution of $10,000 to the town of Kapuskasing toward the construction of a road, $1.
Order. House again in committee of supply, supplementary estimates (C), 1967-68, of the Department of Agriculture. Shall vote 5c carry?


Mr. Chairman, may I inquire whether the minister wishes to make a statement at this time?


Mr. Chairman, since we are discussing supplementary estimates rather than main estimates, at the end of our deliberations I will attempt to answer any questions hon. members may have, if this meets with the approval of the committee.


Mr. Chairman, for weeks the members of this party, many of whom either are now or in previous years have been actively engaged in the industry of agriculture in order to make a living, have been waiting impatiently for these supplementary estimates of the Department of Agriculture to be brought into this parliament. It is my personal opinion that no pestilence, plant disease, drought, flood or any other act of God has done more collective damage to agriculture on a national basis than this Liberal government. This statement would normally be considered one of partisan politics, but by documentation I shall show that unfortunately for this industry it is simply a statement of fact.

March 1, 1968
Supply-A griculture
This government and its spokesmen both inside and outside parliament have constantly assured Canadian farmers that all was well; that the gross national product of farms was rising; that efficiency of production was still increasing; that prices of farm products under their administration were constantly rising; in short, Mr. Chairman, that farmers had never had it so good. I know from experience that they can no doubt produce the necessary figures to support this fairy tale, but I should like in the next few moments to indicate to this committee the almost hopeless economic quagmire that the action or lack of action of these hon. members opposite has created for the farmers of Canada who are trying to earn a living.
It is my intention, Mr. Chairman, to deal with the subject in broad and general terms only, for I shall be followed by colleagues in my party who shall be most specific and detailed; and, commodity by commodity, we hope to place before the members of this house the grim realities of the economic chaos facing nearly every agricultural endeavour in Canada today. The government says the farmers have never had it so good. I wonder whether the government is absolutely blind to conditions as they exist in this country today. Never had it so good, Mr. Chairman? Within the last 12 months we have had the largest protest march in the history of Canada right here on parliament hill by thousands of angry farmers protesting the policy or lack of policy of this government.
Never had it so good, Mr. Chairman? We have witnessed tractor demonstrations, protest meetings, farmers on picket lines, threats of food boycotts, violence, petitions to governments, closing of cheese factories, food canneries, food processing plants, a sugar refinery and creameries on a scale never dreamed possible in this country. We have seen segments of the industry, such as early fruits and vegetables, wool production and the greenhouse industry driven to such low economic levels that in large areas of Canada they are being abandoned entirely.
Never had it so good, Mr. Chairman? Let me give you a few examples of headlines that have appeared in farm papers, market reports and newspapers across the country. These are a few gathered at random. The first one appeared in the Blenheim News Tribune for February 15: "Winter wheat export worst in ten years". That does not refer to western wheat, Mr. Chairman, but to the soft winter wheat produced in eastern Canada.

Another headline in the same publication reads "Artificial products threat to dairy industry". This headline is from the Kent Farmer for November 20: "Farm subsidies not the answer". Another one reads "Soya bean growers ask investigation". From the Western Producer, February 22, 1967, under the heading "Promoting and protecting wheat sales" there is the comment "Canadian wheat export sales drastically reduced". Another headline in the same publication reads "Export drop hits soya bean industry". Then from the Windsor Star for February 10: "Quota fight threatens dairy farmers". Another headline reads "Times are real rough down on the farm". Then this headline appeared in the Farm and Country, published in Toronto, January 23: "Death threatens Ontario greenhouse industry". Another headline from the same publication for February 27 reads "Ontario Federation of Agriculture suggests plant seizure". This was a reference to the unfortunate closure of the sugar refinery at Chatham, bringing with it hardship to all the local sugar beet growers. Then from The Grower for October, 1967: "Brief asks for action on Australian imports". Again The Grower for February, 1968: "Does the strawberry industry have a future in Ontario?". That publication also carried this headline: "Kingsville plant closed". This had reference to the food processing plant of Canadian Canners Limited, which for years had canned peaches, potatoes and tomatoes.
You can hardly pick up a trade paper today, Mr. Chairman, without being faced with similar headlines, such as "Grade A price of eggs to producer sags to 200". The same type of headline is found with regard to nearly every section of agriculture. One headline reads, "Grade A Price Of Eggs To Producer Sags To 200 Per Day". Another reads, "Hog Prices Continue To Decline". Still another reads, "Beef Prices Down J0 Pound". And so it goes on.
[DOT] (12 noon)
Never had it so good? Economic forecasts for agriculture predict that gross income for farmers in 1968 will equal that of 1967 but rising costs will cut millions from net returns in 1968.
Never had it so good? The farmers of this nation are $800 million deeper in debt today than they were just ten years ago.
March 1, 1968

Never had it so good? Ernie Bezaire, a veteran farm reporter for the Windsor Star, on Saturday, February 10 put it this way:
Farmers in southwestern Ontario would have to go back to the bitter 30's to find more troublesome times than they are now experiencing in agriculture.
In all fairness it must be said that world conditions and trade patterns directly affect our own industry. Other governments, however, immediately put into effect countermeasures to protect their own agricultural industries. But our government procrastinates, waffles, blunders and finally dashes into ill conceived action which has brought us almost to the point of economic annihilation.
The government may have meant well in its agricultural policy but may I, by citing some prime examples, show clearly that the government was either ill informed, ill advised, or just did not care. I shall deal first with administration. The government contended that in this modern day and age efficiency and decision were only possible by centralized departments and a chain of command. Hence it staked its political life on this policy and amalgamated the armed forces into a unified service. What about agriculture? In personnel the department is almost as big as the armed services. In this time of crisis in the agricultural industry the government went counter to its policy. It split responsibility for agriculture among the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Forestry and Rural Development, the Minister of Trade and Commerce, the Minister of Manpower and Immigration and the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.
What has been the result of this action? The result is that we have the greatest possible confusion in this sector.
Second, the Minister of Agriculture races pell-mell on a course of action deliberately designed, as he has announced time and again, to move the small farmers of Canada-I believe he estimates them to be about 30 per cent of all farmers-off the land in order to make farms into sound, viable economic units and to create stability in agriculture. This is a popular argument but this policy collapses immediately when government action or inaction removes the profitable market for these so-called economic units. That is what happened when it allowed the deluge of imported canned fruits, meats, turkeys and, yes, eggs. Now we have the bankruptcy of the largest of these so-called stabilized farm units and have witnessed the recent
Supply-Agriculture
bankruptcies of three large greenhouse firms in a single week. The government should learn. In the United States over 50,000 of these large economic units have collapsed in the last few years.
Third, the governmen says, "Move the farmers off the farms and retrain them." But what does the government do? It starts this program and then cuts off grants to build and finance technical schools where such training should take place. Consequently farm families are left to migrate to the nearest urban centre and to compete as unskilled labour for second class jobs.
Fourth, the government has constantly encouraged commodity groups in agriculture to police their own industries. They are told, "Cut down production; tailor your production to meet the domestic market." That sounds good and reads well. Farmers have complied faithfully only to find that the limited domestic market has been swamped with cheap imports when they have been ready to supply it.
Fifth, by advocating efficiency of production and larger economic units and by making credit easy the government has encouraged Canadian farmers to borrow millions of dollars to enlarge their businesses and improve their efficiency. Now the government has the effrontery to say that under the Kennedy tariff round some farmers will have to go, that there may be a temporary period when they will have to be phased out and go into some other agricultural endeavour. Any government that thinks like this knows absolutely nothing about modern agriculture.


Hear, hear.


The capital investment
required and the vast technical knowledge and special equipment needed in farming make it virtually impossible these days for farmers to change their fields of endeavour. If they did, in most instances the result would be economic ruin. Some farmers who financed their farms knew that it would take at least a generation to pay off the debt. That was done deliberately. Therefore, to speak of phasing out now is absolute nonsense.
Sixth, I wish to speak of long-range plans. To create economic units, as the government has suggested should be done, requires a tremendous amount of capital, absolute business management and indispensable long-range planning. By its bungling the government has caused tremendous damage. Its long-range policies do well to last the test of one year.

March 1, 1968
Supply-Agriculture
As prime examples of my contention I cite the three different dairy policies we have had in three years and the government's on again, off again, turkey import quotas.
Seventh, the confusion in the dairy industry would be comic if it were not so tragic. Dairy farmers in Ontario today are placed in an untenable position. Federal policy is explicitly directed toward shutting down small producers and forcing large units to produce greater volumes more efficiently. At the same time a provincial policy places limited quotas on producers, thus making expansion into larger production units almost impossible. Who says farmers never had it so good? Through the Department of Agriculture the government spends the taxpayers' money to expand tobacco production; through the Department of National Health and Welfare it spends the taxpayers' money to curtail the domestic consumption of tobacco.
Never had it so good? Our young people and our old people are leaving the land by the thousands. Our best cattle are being dispersed all over the world. Our best farm land is being covered with concrete and buildings. Our domestic markets are fast shrinking under the constant pressure of cheap imports. Canadian agriculture, once great and world admired, has been reduced to a state of clawing frantically for survival.
The government constantly whines when it is confronted with these facts. It asks, "What did you do when you were in power? Where were your policies?" When we were in office our policy was designed to keep farmers on the farms if they wanted to stay.


Hear, hear.


We deliberately encouraged young people to choose farming as a way of life. Certainly we made mistakes, but much of our policy remains as a background to this government's policies. And our policy was tailored to meet the challenges of 1956, not of 1968.
As to our policy now, our leader will take part in this debate and he will put our ideas before the house. I must emphasize, however, that we believe there are three categories of farmers today and that all are absolutely essential to Canada. We have the part-time farmer, the family farmer and the corporate farmer, and no blanket policy can possibly meet all their needs.
Never had it so good? God help the Canadian farmer in this hour of his agony.
[Mr. Danforth.l
[DOT] (12:10 p.m.)


I am pleased to see the hon.
member for Kootenay East assisting the Minister of Agriculture today. This may be evidence of new thought within the government, particularly since Cominco has been interested in agriculture for some time-I am thinking of the fertilizer industry-and I am sure that in the days ahead the minister may have some use for the advice which Cominco can provide.
This is not the occasion for a major debate on agriculture and we do not intend to treat it as such. But these supplementary estimates, the tag ends of the main estimates, do ask for a further $33 million for the Department of Agriculture. As I see it, the major problems facing the industry are those which have been mentioned by the hon. member for Kent (Ont.), and some of them arise out of government legislation whose implications have still to be faced.
For a long time there has been a general desire that agriculture should become more efficient. Farmers have agreed with this concept and have improved their operations with the result that there is far greater efficiency today in the dairy industry, for example, than there was in the past. This is true with regard to many other crops and farming activities. Yet we are still troubled by the difficulties facing farmers who live on marginal land, cultivating it as agricultural holdings when it should probably be used for some other purpose under the ARDA program. This program was supported by most members of parliament; yet great anomalies are arising from its operation. Dairy farmers have encountered many difficulties. A market for milk at $5 f.o.b. factory has resulted in an improvement in the incomes of farmers engaged in milk production, but the government's action a year ago in discontinuing payments on secondary milk has had 