On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will the right hon. gentleman tell the house whether in the meetings of the federal-provincial officials concerning the constitution, to which he has referred, consideration has been given to the question of an amending formula for the constitution?


The questions which are being discussed by these officials are those which were decided at the meetings held at government level last February by federal and provincial heads of government. The amending formula, it was decided then, was not among the priority items. The committee agreed it was more important to try to reach agreement on the substance than on the mechanics of changing that substance, as had been attempted for years and years, so we agreed to reverse the order and that is why the officials are not discussing the aspect to which the hon. gentleman referred.


Will the Prime Minister undertake to make a full report to the house in the near future as to the agenda for the meetings of the officials? Could he also give the house a report as to what progress has been made in the various areas under discussion? If he is not prepared to report as to progress, can he not at least give a full and precise report regarding the agenda of the meetings?


The agenda can easily be found; it follows from the agenda established in public in front of television cameras last February. I should not like to say more about these discussions at the moment for the simple reason that the provincial and federal governments decided jointly that the officials should hold their discussions in camera and that no public statements should be made.


Is the Prime Minister not prepared to inform the house precisely as to the agenda which is being discussed?


The Leader of the Opposition should understand that this is not a strictly federal matter. This is being done in co-operation with the provinces. It was decided that these meetings should be private; the provinces have been quite firm in that respect, and I think they are quite right.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a complementary question to the Prime Minister.
In view of the fact that high officials are meeting at the present time, when does the Prime Minister envisage a meeting between the federal and the provincial governments to discuss constitutional matters?


Mr. Speaker, as I said yesterday or the day before, I have written to the provincial premiers to suggest a conference of the Prime Minister and premiers in the second half of November or December. I am still awaiting their answer, but that is the date we suggested.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In view of the announcement reported in today's press that Chrysler has raised the price of cars in the United States, will the minister inform the house whether he is getting into contact with the Canadian subsidiaries of the United States auto makers in order to make sure there is no increase in car prices in Canada?


The purpose of the automotive agreement was, among other things, to reduce the differential between the cost of automobiles in Canada and in the United States. Over the period of three or four years this has been done to a great

September 17, 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry extent. When the agreement was put into operation the price differential between Canadian and United States cars was about 8 per cent. It has now been brought down, on an average basis, to about 3 per cent. I have made inquiries and I understand that some standard cars are sold in Canada, wholesale of course, at the same price as in the United States. I also understand that if one shops around properly he might find some cars being sold in Canada at a slightly lower price than they are in the United States.


Where?


That is only to cabinet ministers.


I could not give names of cars because-


Order, please. It appears to me that the minister is now going beyond the terms of the question asked by the hon. member.


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, do I understand the minister to say to this house and to the people of Canada that when the United States price increase is just a little more than the Canadian price increase, then the purpose of the auto pact will be served; or is he going to take steps to see that the price is not increased in Canada unless such increase is fully justified?


I was just trying to say that the effects of the automobile agreement on prices have been concrete. I was just trying to demonstrate that, and if I had been given more time I was going to say that these moves are expected to continue.


Order, please. I do not think the minister should be given more time.


He has no answer.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In view of the fact that the letters which the presidents of Canada's three largest automobile companies recently sent to the minister made no mention of any undertaking to increase Canada's share of North America's automobile production in the 1969 model year, has the minister since been in touch with these company presidents to make sure that Canada does receive a satisfactory increase in the 1969 production year?


I do not agree with that at all, Mr. Speaker. In the letters which were sent to me by the three leading manufacturers up to now-and I expect other letters from the less important ones-


Less important?


-they gave me clear indication that they agree with the automotive agreement, that they have made progress under it and are going to continue making progress. And they gave examples of the kind of progress they have in mind.


Order, please.


This is only part-


Order, please. Perhaps we might go into another subject.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the right hon. Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister make a statement in regard to the renewal of the NORAD agreement which, as the house knows, was contracted since the dissolution of the last parliament; and will parliament be given an opportunity to discuss this important commitment?


Mr. Speaker, there will of course be an opportunity during the throne speech debate to discuss this matter, but it is the intention of the government to give parliament ample opportunity to discuss all aspects of Canada's foreign policy. A special effort will be made to bring these matters before the parliamentary committee, at which time the NORAD agreement can be discussed; but if the house wishes me or the Prime Minister to make a statement in the house at some appropriate time then we have no objection whatever.


As a supplementary question, is the minister aware that the former prime minister said on March 11 that his government-


Order, please.


-would make its decisions-


Order, please. The hon. member obviously is not asking a question that is
September 17, 1968

in order. Will the hon. member kindly resume his seat? The hon. member is asking whether the Prime Minister is aware of a statement made previously. That is not a question that can be put at this time.


On the orders of the day:
I will be glad to discuss this with the two ministers mentioned by the right hon. gentleman.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. In the light of the answer he gave the hon. member for Prince Edward-Hastings yesterday, in which he mentioned the proposed date of the budget, would the minister advise the house whether this will be in the usual form of a budget preceded by a white paper so we can discuss the whole financial situation of the country, or is this to be merely another tax-grabbing budget?


It
will be a full budget.


Will the minister advise the house whether this budget will include tax reform proposals, or has the minister abandoned the proposal that his predecessor in office made to this house that the tax reforms would be preceded by a white paper, and that legislation would follow in due course?


Mr. Speaker, I answered this
question yesterday.
Inquiries of the Ministry EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct this question to the right hon. Prime Minister. Has the government taken official cognizance of yesterday's extraordinary statement by the foreign minister of France, Mr. Michel Debre, accusing the Prime Minister of making false statements; and is Canada forwarding any official protest?


No, Mr. Speaker. Politicians even of this country accuse the Prime Minister of making false statements. I don't.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the hon. Minister of Manpower and Immigration.
Could he tell us whether the Quebec government entered into conversations with the federal government last summer, in order to assume responsibility for unemployment insurance and vocational training, as suggested on March 27 by honourable Paul Dozois in his budget speech?


I have had no conferences with the representatives of the government of Quebec on any of these proposals.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Agriculture. On or about June 7 the then minister of agriculture announced a payment of $60 per acre to farmers of southwestern Ontario for not growing sugar beets. I wonder whether the minister can say when the farmers will receive their cheques.


I will take the question as notice.
96	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Owing to the fact that the people of the nation are viewing with alarm and anxiety the increasing number of strikes which affect the public interest through curtailment of vital functions in our economy, does the government plan to take any action that would be helpful in these situations?


There is a committee on labour questions which was set up by the previous government. I have talked to the chairman of that committee, Dr. Woods, and I understand there will be a report before Christmas. We will decide then what action should be taken on that report.


Which Christmas?


Mr. Speaker, since the right hon. Prime Minister says we must wait for the report on strikes, could he tell me if we must wait for that report to end the strike at the Garage Royal in Rouyn?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct this question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. As the D.B.S. figures just released indicate that the wheat carryover in this country on July 1 was the second largest in history, would the minister take the opportunity provided by the throne speech debate to outline to the country and the house what steps the government plans to take to sell this enormous carryover of wheat?


I will consider this generous offer.

DEBATES	September 17. 1968


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, has the Minister of Agriculture received a request from the Ontario Farmer's Union for a meeting to discuss the serious marketing and pricing problems of this year's corn production? If so, what date has been set for this imperative meeting?


Mr. Speaker, the farmers' union of Ontario has already had one meeting with the Minister of Agriculture and senior officials of the department. That meeting was held in August. There are three other groups also representing corn producers in southern Ontario who have requested a meeting. One meeting was held a few days ago and another will take place this Wednesday. Perhaps we will be able to hold another meeting with the F.U.O. regarding this problem before the end of this week, providing we have had the opportunity of hearing from other groups who legitimately claim they also represent Ontario corn producers.


Mr. Speaker, this matter has been raised on several occasions, but I should like to ask the minister how soon he can make an announcement in the house as to the intentions of the government in respect of this very serious problem.


I will consider an announcement as soon as the groups who in fact represent the various sections of the corn producing industry agree on what action the government ought to take.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
Eastern Quebec farmers, especially in the riding of Bellechasse, have suffered heavy losses due to crop damage in 1967.
Has the Quebec government or any farm group made representations to the Minister of Agriculture so that financial assistance may be provided to the farmers involved, prior to
September 17, 1968

the coming into force of the Quebec Crop Insurance Act?


Mr. Speaker, there have been many requests to the federal government during the past three years for what might be called special ad hoc assistance programs. For approximately the last three years the position of the federal government has been that it would participate in approved crop insurance programs to the extent of 50 per cent of administration costs and 25 per cent of premiums. It is very difficult to deviate from this program when the emphasis has been in that direction in order that we may have established crop insurance programs all over the country to deal with these problems as they arise.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State. In view of the fact that Francois Dor-lot, the recipient of a Canada Council grant for study in France, has been linked with the Rossillon affair, and the strong stand taken by the Prime Minister on this subject, what action is the government taking in the matter?


Mr. Speaker, we have been in touch with the Canada Council about that matter. It is true that the council has granted that student who, I am told, is very brilliant, upon his teachers' recommendation, a scholarship to write a thesis on a matter as far removed from contemporary politics as the waterway traffic in Canada around the 17th century. The Canada Council told us that it does not investigate the recipients' political beliefs and awards its scholarships according to the candidates' intellectual and academic qualifications.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I should be more specific. What action will the government take to assure that Mr. Dorlot will not be one of Mr. Rossillon's secret agents to agitate among the French speaking minority upon his return to Canada?


Order.
Inquiries of the Ministry HARBOURS


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the acting Minister of Transport, and may I express the hope that the minister's absence from the house will be only temporary. Will the National Harbours Board headquarters be moved from Ottawa to Montreal, and can the minister give any possible reason for this move?


Mr. Speaker, in the absence from the house of the Minister of Transport I would like to reply to the hon. member. There is no plan to move the National Harbours Board from Ottawa to Montreal. However, the future use of the administration building at Expo is being studied, and it is possible that the management of the port of Montreal, which is part of the National Harbours Board system, will be moved to this building. It was for that reason that there was a misunderstanding and an inaccurate report in the press, but I emphasize that there is no thought at the present time of moving the headquarters from Ottawa.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Has the Prime Minister instructed Mr. William Lee to countermand the invitation extended to his friends to use the switchboards of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister for the purpose of relaying calls-


Order, please.


-to his new firm, in view of the fact that the first contracts obtained by Mr. Lee and Mr. Neville in their private capacity have been from the government of Canada?


Order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
98	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry
Could he tell us whether a study is now under way with regard to underdeveloped areas and whether we can expect to receive shortly a report on the areas which, in his [DOT]opinion, are to be considered as underdeveloped in 1969?
lEnglish]


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the minister I will take that question as notice and refer it to him.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct this question to the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister advise the house whether it is his intention to transfer the responsibility for the Canadian Wheat Board from the present Minister of Trade and Commerce to the Minister without Portfolio from Saskatchewan?


Order, please.


Maybe I could rephrase my question, Mr. Speaker.


You had better.


Is it the intention of the Prime Minister to transfer the Canadian Wheat Board from the Minister of Trade and Commerce to the Minister without Portfolio from Saskatchewan?


It doesn't sound much better, does it, Mr. Speaker?


May I rephrase my question in this way, Mr. Speaker. I direct it to the Prime Minister. With reference to the export of grain, is the Prime Minister aware that a contract has now been signed between France and Japan which will take the final amount of grain that we would be shipping to Japan under our export contract?


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member that the question as asked is not in order. I indicated earlier to an hon. member that to ask simply whether a minister is aware of a particular matter is not in order.

DEBATES	September 17. 1988


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. I wonder whether Canada is going to try to have the United Nations deal with the tragic war in Nigeria?


Mr. Speaker, the Canadian government, as are all members of this house, is very, very concerned about these tragic events in Nigeria and Biafra. We have been exploring the best means by which the force of public opinion in the world could be brought to bear, and the question of bringing the matter before the United Nations has been considered. As I said in answer to a question the other day, the best way this matter could be brought before the United Nations would be by the neighbouring countries of Nigeria.


Why not by Canada?


The Africans are on the spot, very much concerned, as we are; and I am sure nobody in this house would suggest that we in Canada are more concerned than are the people of the neighbouring countries of Nigeria about the tragic events of these days. If the countries of the Organization for African Unity are not prepared to take an initiative-and we must wait to see-the Canadian government would have no hesitation in bringing before this world body the humanitarian aspects of this conflict.


Why not now?


There are two questions
involved here. One is that I do not think we should intervene in the political affairs of the people of Nigeria. I do think, however, that we, like all the other people of the world, are concerned with the humanitarian aspects. That is why we have been concentrating our efforts in that direction. I can assure the house that if this were the best way of bringing the matter before the United Nations, the Canadian delegation would not hesitate to take the initiative.


I have a supplementary question. Is the minister not aware that the Organization of African Unity has declined to take the initiative at the United Nations, and does this not now free Canada's hands?
September 17, 19G8


Mr. Speaker, I do not think it is possible to give as definite an answer as that. The Organization of African Unity is still seized of the question and meetings on this question are going on currently in Africa and elsewhere. However, Mr. Speaker, it seems to me most important that we should govern ourselves in terms of how we can be most useful in this situation; not whether we can satisfy our own humanitarian instincts, which are so strong, but how we can act most effectively on behalf of the people of Nigeria and Biafra. This should be the test which should govern all our actions, both in Nigeria and elsewhere.


Does the Secretary of State for External Affairs think it would be any use in going to the United Nations after all these people have starved?


Mr. Speaker, the events surrounding the efforts that are being made to supply food are well known, but perhaps not as well known to all members of the house as they are to myself as the minister for external affairs.


Tell us about it.


Strenuous efforts have been made by the Canadian government over a very long period to open the way for these supplies.


When did it start?


We believed that the best means of getting adequate supplies of food was by a land corridor. This was turned down by Biafra for reasons which I can understand.


Why?


They felt this would provide a corridor for military efforts by Nigeria. So, that having failed, we concentrated on an air lift, and so did the International Red Cross. An agreement to an air lift was apparently reached on September 3 by the International Red Cross, who thought they had the agreement of both Nigeria and Biafra for this purpose. Unfortunately, as has happened on so many occasions, when the time came to implement this agreement not the Nigerians but the Biafrans turned it down on exactly the same ground, that it would interfere with their military effort.
These are the facts, Mr. Speaker. This is a most terrible war but it is being fought on
Inquiries of the Ministry both sides as a war for survival ahead of the humanitarian purposes which we all share. We are doing the best we can to make the humanitarian considerations predominate, but we have failed.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the minister. In view of the fact that what is taking place against Biafra has all the appearances of genocide, is this not a matter that Canada as a member of the Security Council should bring before that body if the negro states surrounding Biafra refuse to act? Surely this is something that Canada could bring before the United Nations, being noted among the nations for its independence. Why does the government not act?


Mr. Speaker, this is becoming a debate, but I ask for your indulgence to continue it for a few minutes.


If the minister is willing to answer the last supplementary question.


Mr. Speaker, there have been charges by the Biafran authorities that the purpose of the Nigerians is genocide, that their purpose is to wipe out thousands or millions of the people of Biafra. This may be so, but we do not know.


Oh, oh.


What are you doing to find out?


We are following the developments very closely indeed. For us to go to the United Nations and charge the Nigerian government with genocide is a step which I am sure we would all hesitate to take. Therefore, as I said, our purpose in all these exchanges and in all our efforts is to put the humanitarian considerations first and try to reach the starving people of Biafra and Nigeria. I believe that under these circumstances this is the best we can do, and I do not believe we should interfere and say that either Nigeria or Biafra is right in its political objectives.


Oh, oh.


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the minister a further supplementary question. Like all the others I share his concern about the situation. However, could the minister tell us whether it is not possible to bring this matter before the United Nations without making charges, but to
September 17, 1968

Inquiries of the Ministry insist that both Nigeria and Biafra explain the situation to the world? If it is not possible-and if it is I will want to ask a question based on this-in view of the fact that between the 13th and 16th of this month the International Red Cross organized about 13 flights to Biafra with inadequate planes, why is the government refusing to lend at least one Hercules plane to the International Red Cross to carry out this great humanitarian work about which the minister speaks with such feeling?


I should like to say in answer to the first question that this is the course of action we have been considering and which we hope the African states which are neighbours of Nigeria might take; because surely it is more appropriate for the neighbours of Nigeria to take this action before the United Nations than it is for a country like Canada to do so.


Why? It is either right or wrong, and if it is wrong why does the government not take action? Why does it have to wait for the African states to do so?


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker-


May I interrupt the minister for a moment to remind hon. members that we are still in the question period. I realize that questions have been asked regarding a very serious matter, but even though the matter is of considerable importance we should still observe the normal rules applying to the question period.


Maybe we should have an answer period.


As I said in my earlier answer, what we are seeking is the most effective way to help the people of Nigeria and Biafra. I am sure members of the house would agree that if we can get the African states which are neighbours of Nigeria to take this matter before the United Nations, it would be the most effective possible course.


Hear, hear.


However, I will repeat what I said earlier, that if that failed we would not hesitate to do so ourselves. Our objective is to help these people in the best possible way, not just to satisfy the humanitarian feelings which we all have. To be most effective, I think the house will agree that it would be

better for the neighbours of Nigeria to take this matter to the United Nations than for us to do so. However, if they will not do so we would certainly not hesitate to act.


How long will you wait?


I should like to direct my question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of his concern over the African states taking the initiative in the Biafra situation, and since they have taken the initiative of calling for a cease fire, will the minister, on behalf of Canada, join them in requesting a cease fire?


We have called for a cease fire on many occasions. We have put our views before the Nigerian government on many occasions. We are opposed to a military settlement of this dispute. This has been the Canadian position from the beginning. This view has been expressed privately and publicly by the Secretary of State for External Affairs on behalf of the Canadian people.


I do not blame the Secretary of State for External Affairs for having missed the second question I asked. May I rephrase it, because I think it is of importance. Is the minister aware that the International Red Cross has made quite a number of flights into Biafra with supplies and that it is in urgent need of additional aircraft? In that situation, why is the government not prepared to lend the International Red Cross at least one Hercules plane for this purpose, even if the flying is done during the night?


Mr. Speaker, we have been having discussions with the International Red Cross about the provision of additional aircraft. There is no hesitation on our part in providing aircraft of this kind. The issue that arose earlier, and which to some extent is not now so important, was that we did not believe we should put Canadian air force aircraft, manned with Canadian military personnel as had been suggested in many parts of our country, into jeopardy by flying contrary to the wishes of the Nigerian government. If the planes were to be attacked under such circumstances the Canadian government would be involved in a very serious incident.
I suggest to the hon. members that is not a course that would commend itself to this house. No government in the world is flying supplies contrary to the wishes of the Nigerian government. What is happening now, and
September 17, 1968

I am sure it is agreeable to the house, is that we are working with the International Red Cross. We have no hesitation whatever in helping.


May I ask
a supplementary question. I wonder if the minister could assure the house that the relief supplies now being loaded on a ship in Halifax will reach Biafra.


I cannot give that assurance. All I can say is that the supplies will go to the starving people of Nigeria-Biafra.


I should like to direct my question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Can the minister foresee the possibility of Canada ever using her military strength to interfere with the desires of another foreign state, if in the opinion of the Canadian government that foreign state-


Order, please. The question is much too general in nature to be acceptable at this time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Public Works.
Could he tell the house whether the government intends to keep on building post offices next winter, especially in designated areas?


The hon. member could easily put this question on the order paper.
rEnglish1


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct my question to the Minister without Portfolio, Hon. Mr. Richardson. Will the Department of Transport immediately set up an inquiry into the Canadian National passenger train derailment which occurred yesterday in the town of Oakville. In this tragedy one person was killed and eight were injured.
Inquiries of the Ministry Hon. James Richardson (Minister without Portfolio): Mr. Speaker, immediately upon learning of this unfortunate accident the district inspector of the railway transport committee of the Canadian Transport Commission went to the scene. He has already filed a preliminary report. The Canadian National is conducting its own investigation, but up to this moment the cause of the accident has not been determined. However, I can assure the house and the hon. member that further investigations by the Canadian Transport Commission and by the Canadian National will be undertaken.


May I ask a supplementary question. I should like to ask which came first, the answer or the question.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct my question to the acting Minister of Transport. Since there has been a major crisis in connection with automobile traffic to and from the Vancouver international airport during the last two weeks, resulting in long delays, what steps are planned by the minister's department to cure this serious problem?


Order. This question, as well as the previous question, should be placed on the order paper. If I may say so, the Chair may have been too lenient up to this moment in allowing questions. The normal procedure, as hon. members know, is for questions to be put in writing on the order paper. It is only in very special circumstances dealing with matters of urgent national importance that verbal questions should be allowed. I believe all members desire to observe this general rule. I suggest that the question asked by the hon. member might be placed on the order paper.
GANDER-REQUEST FOR IMPROVED FACILITIES On the orders of the day:


I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the serious implications emanating from reports that the stretched jets and other large aircraft are bypassing Gander international airport and landing in
September 17, 1968

Inquiries of the Ministry another country because of inadequate terminal facilities, and in view of the announced $32 million expenditure on a west coast terminus, could the Prime Minister say what action is contemplated-


Order. This question should be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Agriculture. Has the minister recently received representations from the oil seed industry of Manitoba with regard to the importation of foreign vegetable oils below our cost of production, which is having a very serious effect on this important segment of our agriculture industry?


I suggest the hon. member should place this question on the order paper.


The situation has
reached crisis proportions. I suggest this is a serious question which should be answered.


It is because it is important that I suggest it be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Would the minister indicate when it is anticipated that the report of the special task force on agricultural policy will be available to the government, and whether that report will be made available to members of the house.


Mr. Speaker, I cannot say when the report will be made available to the house. We have asked for an interim report for December, and the task force has indicated that it is working toward delivering that interim report in December.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice and it relates to an order in
[Mr. Lundrigan.l

council passed by the government when parliament was not in session concerning a reduction in customs duties. The order in council was based on the Financial Administration Act. In view of the fact this order in council is similar to one passed in 1962 which was found later to be such that it had to be validated by parliament, can the minister inform the house whether all aspects of this were checked by the Department of Justice before approval was given to this order in council?


will have to take this question as notice. I wonder whether the hon. member would send me the number of the order in council?


will be glad to do so if the minister is not aware of it.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the minister responsible for housing, but in his absence I will address it to his parliamentary secretary. In view of the extremely critical shortage of housing in Newfoundland, would he indicate when the minister and his task force will be visiting that province? Has the minister accepted an invitation from the inter-faith social action committee of Corner Brook to attend their conference on housing in October?


In the absence of the Minister of Transport, who is not in the house today because he is with the task force on housing, I can only reply that I am certain the housing problems of Newfoundland will be very much the concern of the task force. I am sorry I cannot give the exact dates when the task force will be in Newfoundland.


On the orders of the day:
My question is directed to the Minister of Justice. Is it the intention of the government to include in the omnibus bill which is to contain amendments to the Criminal Code amendments concerning
September 17, 1988	COMMONS
the bail system and the expunging of criminal records?


At the moment I am undertaking a review of the omnibus bill with officers of the department. Representations are being received from all over the country and from members of the house. The amendments in the omnibus bill will be resubmitted, and they will include the subject matters of the original bill. I hope at an early date to be able to incorporate other Criminal Code reforms, including the matters raised by the hon. member, in a subsequent piece of legislation.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister say whether at the appropriate time after the introduction of the bill he would be prepared to refer it to a house committee, so that a thorough examination in committee could be made?


Order. I wonder whether this question might not be asked when this bill is submitted to the house.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I supplement an answer I gave yesterday to the hon. member for St. John's East (Mr. McGrath) with respect to Greenland halibut. The ruling of the United States food and drug administration which I talked about yesterday does not involve any prohibition on the import of Greenland halibut to the United States until November 20, the deadline for the delay that has been granted.


The house resumed, from Monday, September 16, consideration of the motion of Mr. Eymard Corbin for an address to His Excellency the Governor General in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, the amendment of Mr. Stanfield (p. 62) and the subamendment of Mr. Lewis (p. 81).
Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to add my sincere congratulations to you on your re-election to the distinguished office you have 29180-8i
DEBATES	103
The Address-Mr. Baldwin graced in the past with so much honour and intelligence and such knowledge of the rules. My congratulations are all the more hearty because of the different circumstances under which Your Honour now occupies the Chair. I shall come back to that in a minute.
I also wish to congratulate the Deputy Speaker, the chairman of committees, and the deputy chairman of committees for having received the support of members of the house and having been elected to the positions they hold. I concur thoroughly with the remarks my leader made earlier in this debate. Without in any way disparaging the personal qualities of the incumbent of the Chair I think it is correct to say that by placing the Chair in a position of far greater independence than was the case before, we in this house have taken a considerable step forward. In this regard great credit belongs to my leader since it was largely through his initiative that this step was taken.


Hear, hear.


The Chair is the pivot around which this house moves. It is the foundation on which our functions rest. When one talks of the independence of the Chair-and I make these remarks without meaning to cause embarrassment to	anyone-that
independence must be considered in several ways. When a member of this house occupies the Chair he takes himself out of the arena of active political consideration, as he must. Nevertheless, other aspects of his independence must be kept in mind and enshrined in the position of the Chair for the benefit not only of our present Speaker but for those who will occupy his position in the future.
I congratulate the Prime Minister, of course, for his success, as well as the members of his cabinet and their parliamentary secretaries. The people of Canada have come to a decision. We on this side of the house will have to live with the government for four years. The people of Canada will have to live with both of us for the same period of time. During that period it is absolutely essential that there be the greatest measure of co-operation among all members of the house in an attempt to carry forward the business of the country, which may or may not always be the business of the government.
We in this party will undertake to be as co-operative as possible and willing to forward in an expeditious way all business of the house, subject of course to the overriding consideration that there is a duty placed on
104	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Baldwin this party in its capacity as Her Majesty's loyal opposition to protect the interests of the people of Canada. If it becomes necessary to protect those interests we shall exercise all rights we possess to the utmost.
I have been characterized as a kind, gentle and amiable person. I accept that description. Ho doubt the members of my party and my leader thought these characteristics were similar to those displayed by my distinguished predecessors, Hon. Michael Starr, Hon. Gordon Churchill and Hon. Howard Green, all of whom could be termed gentle and amiable unless the occasion arose when they had to fight for the rights of this house, as I shall fight and as all members of this house will fight.
I am sure the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Macdonald) will agree that I have been amiable, just as I agree that he has been amiable. I suspect that the extent of his amiability is circumscribed by the extent to which he gets his own way for the government.
I congratulate the hon. member for Mada-waska-Victoria (Mr. Corbin) for his fine and skilful speech when he moved the address in reply, which indicated that he will become an ornament of this house. I am convinced that we shall hear more from this distinguished addition to the house. I also congratulate the hon. member for Kamloops-Cariboo (Mr. Marchand). I listened intently and with great interest to his speech. I was glad to hear him say that he comes to this house not solely as a representative of his people, although God knows his people have many wrongs which need to be corrected, but also as a Canadian and as an Indian to help solve the problems of the white man.
[DOT] (12 noon)
One of my opponents in the last election was a young member of the same Indian group, a fine, distinguished young man who had been a graduate of the R.M.C., had served in the air force with distinction and made a great contribution to the election. It was unfortunate, I thought, that so early in his political life he had been seduced by the wiles of hon. gentlemen to my left, because I think he would have fitted better into the contours of the views which our party expresses. But it is very heartening and encouraging to see this come about, and I wish well to the two hon. members who moved and seconded the motion for the address. Indeed, I wish well to all the new members who have come to this house. I
DEBATES	Sepiember 17, 1968
understand very well that having reached a peak of exultation shortly after the election they have come to Ottawa and found that there are various levels of members of parliament, at least outside this chamber.
Let them always remember that this house is the repository of all the powers of the people of Canada, that it is a court of last resort. It may well seem to many of us and to many of those outside this chamber that much of this power has been given away and now resides in the hands of government agencies and of various administrative boards and tribunals which have been set up. If this is the case it is only because we saw fit-in many cases unwisely, in my opinion-to abdicate our responsibility and invest power in agencies rather than in this parliament. If we come to a situation which involves the use of power, remember well-and I say this particularly to the new members-that it flows from an action which was taken in this chamber by a House of Commons which preceded this one. With this in mind, guide well your actions, your thoughts, your votes and your speeches from now on.
My colleagues will be dealing with many other aspects of the speech from the throne. I wish particularly to direct my attention to the question of parliamentary reform and changes in procedure as outlined in the speech from the throne and as more particularly defined by the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) yesterday when he addressed this chamber. Generally speaking, I have no quarrel with the philosophical position which he took yesterday. Such speeches are made very frequently. Read the pages of Hansard. Examine the history of other democratic countries. Philosophical dissertations of this nature are made and repeated from time to time; the pages of Hansard are filled with them. It is all very well to talk about creating a brave new world but what concerns me is the blueprint, the plans, the specifications, the construction in accordance with which we undertake this course. Here is where we come to the parting of the ways-not in every respect, but in some respects.
I heard the former prime minister make speeches in 1964 and 1965 which, though differently worded, embodied precisely the same attitude toward the manner in which this house should conduct its business and to the reforms required to make it competent to do so more effectively. Nothing came of this. So

September 17, 1968	COMMONS
while I listened with respect and in agreement with the right hon. gentleman to a considerable extent when he spoke yesterday on this subject, I must file a caveat and say that I remain to be convinced. I hope I am wrong.
I trust I am wrong. I should like to think that when this parliament is through the government will have shown that its acts are as good as its words. But so far I am unconvinced.
I wish to make particular reference to two comments made by the right hon. gentleman. As reported on page 73, dealing with the discussions which have been going on the Prime Minister said:
The discussions which have been proceeding on and off for the past fortnight, or even longer, among the representatives of the several parties in the house must not be permitted to continue indefinitely.
With this I am in perfect agreement, but I think there is an implication in that statement which needs to be corrected. There have been discussions, some of them directed to questions of far-reaching reform, which can well be discussed by house leaders but which cannot be resolved other than by this house itself and which, in my opinion, are best the subject of attention by a special committee. Reforms in the rules and procedures of this house are far too important to be left to the leaders in the house. They are and always will be the property of the members of the house. I wish to be very careful, because I must not disclose anything which took place, but I am justified in saying that it was only the day before parliament opened that concrete, specific proposals by the government with relation to the interim arrangements, the whole package of interim arrangements which would come into effect at the beginning and carry on through the first part of the session, were outlined. We have had discussions pro and con. I had advanced my views, the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) had advanced his, and the representative of the Ralliement Creditiste had stated his position, but it was only the day before that the specific package was outlined.
I am not criticizing the government in this regard but I do say it is quite wrong for the impression to be created-I am not suggesting that the right hon. gentleman was insincere, or that he was attempting to create it-that discussions had been going on for two weeks involving specific proposals which had in any
DEBATES	105
The Address-Mr. Baldwin sense been agreed to prior to that date. As was my right as the representative of Her Majesty's loyal opposition, I had views in disagreement which I advanced. They were not acceptable and it was on this basis that the government finally made its proposal on Friday through the leader of the house. Let there be no doubt about that situation, Mr. Speaker.
The Prime Minister went on to say:
Nor should they be permitted to lead, either by agreement or in the absence of it, to procedural changes which will upset the delicate and essential balance between government and opposition so necessary to the proper functioning of parliament. [DOT] (12:10 p.m.)
Later there is a suggestion that the time has come when this matter should be brought to the floor of the house. I agree with that. I think there has to be a debate, hopefully not on all of the areas which can be covered but on an interim arrangement. We in this party, as I propose to indicate later, have never departed from the position that there must be an interim arrangement to cover the procedures of this house during the first part of this session. But implied in the Prime Minister's statement I see a threat that negotiations on this occasion must mean a reasonable time to accept or reject the government's propositions and, if they are not accepted, the matter will come back to the house and the government, with its majority, will have its way.
I assume that this will be the case. I am *assuming that the characteristics of the Liberal party have not changed since the very well documented publication issued by the right hon. gentleman some five years ago when he had occasion to describe the Liberal party's attitude on their current issues as one of being quite content to accept the views laid down by those at the top. His words were very specific and very definite. No matter what the issue may be I am assuming that when the government determines to have its way it will have it. In my view this is not the way in which negotiations should be conducted. I am hopeful that, as has been indicated, meetings will continue for the purpose of arriving at an interim arrangement to cover the first part of this session, and that we can then hopefully go on to more drastic and more permanent changes. This has been our view. It has been my view. It has been the view of my leader as expressed in the election campaign and it is still our view. It was our view at the opening of this session.
The rules of parliament are important not only because they affect this house but
106	COMMONS
The Address-Mr. Baldwin because they are part of the constitution of this land. In its broadest sense the constitution is an aggregate of the statutes, the conventions, the practices, precedents and rules under which parliament is conducted. In my view, as I have expressed it earlier, this is far too important a matter to be left to be discussed and decided at the esoteric level of a few people with a mechanical knowledge of the rules.
I think there should be a greater measure of publicity given to this subject. If a committee is established later I would like to think that the proceedings of that committee would be published. This is the practice in the United Kingdom. Let there be a general debate. Let there be a debate to some extent in the country, in the press and certainly in this house so that when we come to change our rules, when we come to modify and adapt our rules in such a way as to permit members of the house to carry forward the business of the country, the changes will be based on the fullest understanding and on the support which will come as the result of an open discussion.
Many of the problems which have been created are problems which arose because past parliaments were dilatory, but I 