I have the honour to inform the house that a message has been received from the Senate informing this house that the Senate have passed Bill No. C-109, an act respecting the construction of a line of railway in the province of Alberta by Canadian National Railway Company, without any amendment.


for leave to introduce Bill No. C-121, relating to Indian lands in British Columbia.
He said: Mr. Speaker, the aboriginal title to lands in British Columbia, tribal and community property and other rights, were never extinguished by treaty, purchase or anything else except in one situation. The purpose of this bill is to give parliamentary recognition to the historical fact that the aboriginal and hereditary ownership of the lands still rests in the hands of the native people of British Columbia, and to give the governor in council authority to enter into discussions and negotiations to see that a mutually satisfactory agreement is reached in this respect, thus solving a problem that has existed for many decades.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Prime Minister, but before I do perhaps I might be permitted to congratulate him and wish him continued health and every happiness on his birthday.


Hear, hear.


How old is he?


Will he tell us that by way of a
statement on motions?


Mr. Speaker, I wish the Prime Minister every happiness as he enters his fiftieth year.


Oh, oh.


The question I ask him is a repeat. I want to make it clear that I am not criticizing the Prime Minister, because I find that as I age somewhat my memory is not as good as it used to be. My question arises from the repeated urgings of the governor of the Bank of Canada for some kind of guide lines relating to inflation, contained again in the speech of last night. Would the Prime Minister indicate when the house might expect the promised white paper relating to the proposed prices review board?


Mr. Speaker, I would be glad to answer this question. I thank the Leader of the Opposition for mentioning my birthday. I was hoping that the occasion would pass unnoticed, because I have never paid much attention to the question of age. I rather thought the same attitude existed on the other side of the house, but I suppose the longer I put off discussing my age, the worse it will get.
My memory has not yet slipped, however, on the point of the white paper on the stabilization of prices, costs and incomes. I had a meeting with the governor of the Bank of Canada this week and we discussed the subject. I was able to finalize in my own mind the action we should be taking on this matter. I think it is fair to speculate that within three weeks such a white paper, or a statement on this subject, will be made by the government.


I have a supplementary question. Is there no prospect of receiving this white paper before the Minister of Finance presents his budget, as it might be related to the position taken by the minister?


No, Mr. Speaker. The budget will deal with inflation in the usual way in which fiscal policy is tackled, but our thinking on this kind of stabilization or review board is that inflation has to be attacked by other than budgetary means. In a sense it is unrelated to the budget speech.

October 18, 1968
Inquiries oj the Ministry


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder if the Prime Minister could indicate whether he feels that the introduction of the budget will not make it even more essential to produce the white paper as soon as possible.


No, Mr. Speaker. I suggest that after the glee with which the budget will be met we might take much more time in introducing this white paper.


I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister. I wonder whether the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce was stating government policy when he suggested he was in favour of a cost board rather than a prices and review board.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Will the minister inform the house now as to the terms of reference of the national grains council?


I think I referred to them yesterday, Mr. Speaker. In the proposed terms of reference we enumerated all the different aspects of the work which the grains council is expected to perform. One, for example, has to do with marketing, another with research, and still another with information. But I think I stated yesterday that everyone at the meeting held two days ago seemed to agree that the main function of the council would be a co-ordinating one, bringing together all the sections of that important industry.


I have a supplementary question. Could we also have some information at the minister's convenience on the proposed method of financing the operations of the council?


This was also studied in Winnipeg two days ago. Different formulas were advanced by the participants at the meeting and by the ministers present and, as I said yesterday, we are now trying to bring all

these elements together and provide the participants with a new document which will be subject to their representations.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the minister. Will the national grains council be looking into the problems of western Canada resulting from the severe weather conditions there in trying to find some immediate solutions?


I do not think the council will be created soon enough to allow views to be expressed on the current situation, but definitely the purpose of the grains council will be to analyse, digest and criticize the sometimes conflicting opinions that are advanced by very learned people and worth-while organizations on the interests of the grain industry.


Mr. Speaker, can the minister say whether it is the intention to give a full time salary or emolument to members of the grains council?


That will be discussed under financing.


I would direct a question to the minister of trade and industry. The hon. gentleman mentioned that the council which is being set up will not be operative or effective, as the case may be, for a couple of months. In view of the serious emergency facing the farmers of western Canada is the hon. gentleman giving consideration to convening a meeting of representatives of the Canadian Federation of Agriculture, the farm unions and municipal organizations to discuss and consider what action the federal government might take to meet this emergency, and to give consideration also to action which might be taken with respect to sales which are going on outside the wheat board of feed grain and the like at inordinately low prices?


Mr. Speaker, this is always in my mind and in the mind of the Minister of Agriculture. We are trying to move both on the short term and on the longer term, the longer term being represented by the creation of the grains council. On the short term I have endeavoured to indicate yesterday and two weeks ago the support we are giving to the Canadian Wheat Board. There is no doubt, however, that the policies with regard to orientations, i.e., should it be hard grain,
October 18, 1968

softer grain, or concentration on feed grain and so on, are policies that require a good deal of discussion. I thought, and the Minister of Agriculture thought, that the proper place for these debates would be in the grains council, where all sectors of the industry will be represented and where the representatives would have an opportunity to sort of check the value of their own views against the views of their colleagues in the same industry.


Mr. Speaker, I will read the answer. I should like to ask the minister, under the circumstances that this council will not be effective for a couple of months, and in view of the serious situation on the prairies as well as the spirit of desperation among many farmers, whether he will do something now to give these farmers an opportunity to have at least a hope that action will be taken, not two or three months hence but now.


Mr. Speaker, I will read the questions. I was endeavouring to say that efforts are being made now. My colleague the Minister of Agriculture was yesterday and is today involved in consultations of that kind. When we were in Winnipeg the other day-


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I too would like to offer my best birthday greetings to the Prime Minister. I have no questions to put to him for the time being, but I should like to put one to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce (Mr. Pepin).
Has he started negotiating disposal of the Beauce maple syrup surplus of approximately one million pounds? Does the minister expect that it would be possible to sell that production?


I do not know whether that question is particularly urgent but under the circumstances, it might be well to allow the minister to reply.


Mr. Speaker, I was about to say that no one had yet brought the matter to my attention, but now that I know, thanks to the good offices of the hon. member, I shall look into this and endeavour to give him a reply, either personally or in the house.
Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Prime Minister. As minimum wages in this country range as low as 80 cents an hour, and the recipients of most minimum wages and their families are required to live in conditions of poverty, will the Prime Minister give consideration to calling a meeting of the provincial premiers to discuss the possibility of raising all minimum wages in this country above the poverty level?
Rxghi Hon. P.-E. Trudeau (Prime Minisler):
As the hon. member knows, Mr. Speaker, we have arranged for meetings of federal-provincial ministers of finance, health and welfare, and later of prime ministers. The agendas are quite full, and I do not believe that at the meeting of prime ministers we will be able to discuss this particular matter. We are meeting on constitutional matters.

While I have the floor, Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the leader of the Ralliement Creditiste (Mr. Caouette) for his good wishes and tell him that, like Maurice Chevalier, I do not relish the idea of getting old, but I feel better when I think of the alternative.


May I ask a supplementary question. In view of the Prime Minister's reluctance to take any action or to give leadership in this regard, are we to take it the just society envisages built-in poverty?


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs, but in his absence I will address it to the Prime Minister. My question arises out of reports that the military budget of NATO is to be increased to the sum of $172.8 billion for the next five year period. Will the Prime Minister say what representations, if any, have been made to Canada to increase its financial contribution to NATO?


I wonder if the hon. member would mind
October 18, 1968

Inquiries of the Ministry asking this question of the minister when he is in the house?


I have a supplementary question which perhaps may also be passed on to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Since the house and the country have been waiting for several weeks now for a clear statement of the government's position with regard to NATO, and such a statement has been promised both by the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for External Affairs, can we now be given assurance that such a statement will be made without further delay on the return of the Secretary of State for External Affairs and the Minister of National Defence to the house?


The hon. member for
Dauphin.


I should like to say further, Mr. Speaker, that since this statement has been promised by the Prime Minister on several occasions, he might like to make some reply.


As I have told the house, Mr. Speaker, the question of the review of our defence and external policy is under way. It is not envisaged that in the immediate future we will have any announcement to make. Once again, the Secretary of State for External Affairs will be in the house next week, when the hon. member will be welcome to ask him any questions.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. What action will the minister take in view of the almost complete loss of our traditional barley markets in France and Australia in the past six months, reportedly as a result of the rigid pricing policy of the Canadian Wheat Board?


I cannot declare war on France; that is one thing I cannot do.


What about your prayers?


The barley market is one in which competition exists. As I said yesterday in answer to a question, we are trying to help by every means available to improve the

position of the wheat board in that competitive race around the world for wheat and barley markets. I mentioned yesterday that one of the important marketing factors was credit terms, and we are trying to improve upon that as well.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is in a way supplementary, and it is directed to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, whose day this seems to be. Will the minister tell the house what trade initiatives either his department or the government are taking to offset the serious decline in the Unitd States market for Canadian fish, with the disastrous consequences this is having on the industry in Canada?


I recognize the importance of the question asked by the hon. member, but I suggest to him that perhaps what he would want the minister to do is to make a statement on motions rather than give a general statement on policy at this time.


With great respect, Mr. Speaker, this is a very urgent question. The Fisheries Council of Canada will be meeting in Ottawa on Monday and this is a serious topic that the council will have under discussion. Perhaps the minister will give consideration to making a statement on the matter on motions on Monday.


Mr. Speaker, may I inquire whether my hon. friend is referring to his favourite subject, which is Greenland halibut, or is he referring to fish in general?


Mr. Speaker, I am referring to fresh frozen cod fish generally.


In that case, the question being so wide, Mr. Speaker, I will take it as notice.
[Later:\


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I should address this question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce as a supplementary to the question asked by the member for St. John's East. With regard to the question concerning the frozen fresh fish market in the United States, can the minister give some assurance that this question will result in a statement on Monday prior to the meeting of the fisheries council?
October 18, 1968


Yes.


I did not catch the answer.


Yes, I will give it a try.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I do not want to reiterate what has been said, but after the very generous words which were expressed by the Prime Minister one month ago today 1 am happy to tell him sincerely how glad I am that he is in such good health. May I also congratulate him on his birthday and affix thereto a question.
May I ask the Prime Minister whether he can now advise that the opening of the national arts centre has been postponed from its original date of opening, so that he will be in his fifty-second year before the centre is opened; and may I ask him whether the delay in this regard is due to the fact that it will be necessary to secure further supply in the 1968-69 year before the alterations that are now being made to that building can be completed?


Order. I am not sure whether the question is urgent, but since this is the Prime Minister's birthday perhaps he should not be deprived of an opportunity to answer the question.


Thank you very much for your kind gift, Mr. Speaker.


Oh, oh.


On the question of the arts centre may I say I have had no news that the opening will be delayed, as the right hon. gentleman mentions. The Secretary of State is not in the house today, so I will call this question to his attention. The last I heard was that the opening would take place as scheduled and that there would be no difficulty.
May I also thank the right hon. gentleman for his good wishes. I am not an Indian chief or a long experienced and respected member of the house, but I am sensitive to the good wishes which have been addressed to me by the right hon. gentleman. I might add, Mr. Speaker, that I do not mind when the gentlemen of this house call attention to my age, but I do hope the ladies will not notice it too much.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Is it not a fact that a few months ago when the Prime Minister visited the Stratford festival the same question was asked of him by various artists who were doubtful as to the reason for the postponement of the opening of the centre? Is it also not a fact that it was said, after an aide had left to get the information, that one of the reasons for the delay was that the necessary supply had not been voted?


Mr. Speaker, perhaps as the hon. Leader of the Opposition said a moment ago, my memory is failing. I have no recollection of this, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. It concerns the flying schedule of Air Canada to Moscow. Since both Air Canada and Pan Am now leave for Moscow less than two hours apart on the same evening, making it difficult for either air line to make the route pay, is Air Canada negotiating with Pan Am to bring some order to this senseless situation?


Order. I would think that question might be placed on the order paper.


On the orders of the day:
With your permission, Mr. Speaker, I shall put a question to the hon. Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Can he tell us whether any division of his department is considering now or will consider in the near future the possible participation of the federal government, at the information level, in the serious problem of alcoholism in Canada?


I think that the question of the hon. member could be placed on the order paper.

October 18, 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the hon. Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Yesterday, he told us in a speech that the question of hallucinogens would be on the agenda of a future federal-provincial conference. Could he tell us whether alcoholism, which is becoming a national problem, will also be on the agenda.
I see that the minister is prepared to answer, Mr. Speaker.


It is not specifically on the agenda for discussion, although it may be introduced by interested parties from the provinces.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the right hon. Prime Minister.
Could he tell us if it is the government's intention to replace in the near future our Canadian ambassador in Paris and to appoint Mr. Leger to the position of Under-Secretary of State?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be prepared, next week, to make an announcement on this matter.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question I wish to direct to the Minister of Transport. Will the minister intervene in the present hearings being held before the railway transport committee to establish a rail costing formula in order to lift the cloud of secrecy hiding railway costing figures, secrecy that is preventing the provinces from preparing a proper case for the railway transport committee hearing?


am not sure, Mr. Speaker, whether I have any right to intervene, but I shall be glad to bring my hon. friend's representation to the attention of the president of the Canadian Transportation Commission.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the Minister of Transport whether he has yet received the report of the Canadian Transportation Commission dealing with less than carload rates in Atlantic Canada. If so, when can action be taken thereon?


Mr. Speaker, to my knowledge I have not yet received this report.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister give some indication to the people of the Atlantic provinces when we are to have some action from the minister's committee in the field of transportation? We are certainly fed up with the lack of action.


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the right hon. Prime Minister.
Could he tell the house whether a delegation of federal officials is now in Paris trying to prevent an agreement in the field of communication satellites between the province of Quebec and France?


Certainly not, Mr. Speaker. The question, as the Prime Minister of France said concerning another subject, is perfidious.


Mr,
Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister.
Could he tell us if a mission is now in Paris to discuss satellite communications between Canada and France?


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister, from one forty niner to another. Considering the great importance and possible implications of the discussions now in progress in Paris between the officials of France and Canada in respect of the telecommunications satellite, will the Prime Minister ask one of the ministers to make a statement on motions at an early date on this pretty important matter?


Mr. Speaker, if a statement is made it will likely be made by the Postmaster General, who will be the minister responsible for communications. I will gladly discuss it with him.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Potsmaster General which arises out of a question I directed to the Prime Minister yesterday. I asked the Prime Minister whether the heads of certain daily and weekly newspapers have asked to meet him and discuss the questions of the cut off of service and the increase of rates. Yesterday morning the Prime Minister said those people had seen you. If they have contacted you, could you say what decision you have come to?


Order, please. I must remind the hon. member that questions ought to be addressed to the Chair.


I will address the question through you, sir. Have you seen the heads of these newspapers with regard to the matter I have just raised?


I must tell the hon. member that I have not seen the people he has referred to.


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Postmaster General whether he has seen the heads of the daily and weekly newspapers I
DEBATES	1531
Inquiries of the Ministry referred to, and has he told them that the service is to be continued as it is today and that there will be no increase in rates?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his question. I was beginning to feel a little neglected today. I met with the representatives of the Quebec daily newspapers association yesterday morning for about one hour and a half, and I think a summary of this meeting appeared in various newspapers today. Last evening I met for about one hour and three quarters with the president and general manager of the Canadian daily newspapers association, and I listened.


I am happy that the Postmaster General listened. Having listened, has he reached any conclusion with reference to the submissions presented to him during those interviews?


I think the debate on this bill begins on Monday, and I hope the hon. member has enough patience to wait until then.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Postmaster General a supplementary question.
About the motion to adjourn the business of the house which was introduced yesterday in his absence, can the minister tell us if he intends to reconsider the decision he made known to us in his letter of October 10 with regard to his intention to set new postal rates starting November 1, thus altering the franking privileges enjoyed by the members of the house and the Senate? Can he give us an answer today?


Mr. Speaker, I will make a statement on second reading and then we can discuss whether such a statement is justified.


As the
minister seems alarmed at the prospect of a parliamentary committee examing this question, would he have any objection to his officials appearing before a standing committee at the time their estimates are being considered, which could well be contemporaneous with the introduction of the bill?


I have no objection to discussing this bill nor the principles underlying the policies of the department, but I would think the normal place to do this, the place which

October 18, 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry
would give the opportunity for the fullest discussion, would be in committee of the whole.


The minister has had these long interviews and listened to these representations. Would he consent to these people appearing before the standing committee so they could air their views and in order that hon. members might be well informed and placed in a better position to discuss this unusual bill when it comes before the house?


I have no doubt at all that the people who have made representations to me have also made representations to hon. members opposite, who are well aware of their nature.


Bearing in mind the vigorous press campaign against the proposed increase in second class rates, can the minister assure us that he intends to stand firm on this point and make the newspapers pay their way?


I am glad to receive that expression of support from the hon. member opposite.


On the orders of the day:
In the absence of the Minister of Justice, the Solicitor General, the minister responsible for Indian affairs and the hon. member for Port Arthur, who is Minister without Portfolio, I should like to direct a question to any acting minister who may feel he has authority in the following urgent circumstances, and ask him whether the government has knowledge of an important decision by the supreme court of British Columbia that Indian reserve land surrendered for lease is no longer considered to be reserve land as such, and is lost to the Indian people. Is it intended to take any action to correct this injustice?


The three ministers mentioned by the hon. member are not scheduled to appear in the house today according to the roster, but I am sure they will be pleased to receive the question when they are here.


On the orders of the day:
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. In the light of an indication yesterday in a speech by the Minister of Fisheries that he was advocating an extension of the 12-mile fishing limit, may I ask how the right hon. gentleman reconciles this proposal with French sovereignty over the islands of St. Pierre and Miquelon?


Order. The question asked by the hon. member appears to be argumentative.


But Your Honour, this
speech was made yesterday at Boston by the Minister of Fisheries, and it concerned the 12-mile limit. Some doubt exists in the minds of Canadians, particularly on the east coast, as to whether the French islands of St. Pierre and Miquelon would be within the proposed new limit, and I would redirect my question to the Prime Minister and ask him how the government reconciles this new policy with French sovereignty over the islands mentioned.


The Leader of the Opposition.


I wish to protest on a point of order. In 1964 the government of this country passed legislation establishing a 12-mile limit for Canada. This was done to preserve certain fishing areas including areas in the gulf of St. Lawrence and the bay of Fundy. At the present time our fishing industry on the east coast is going through a difficult period of readjustment. There is a shortage of fish, and implementation of this decision would help establish conservation areas for the fishermen of Canada. I would ask the Prime Minister-


Order, please. The Leader of the Opposition.


On the orders of the day:
The President of the Treasury Board is on the roster today and must not feel neglected. I wonder whether he is in a
October 18. 1968

position to answer a question he has been asked previously, namely whether he has been in touch with the province of Ontario with a view to making public any communication from that province calling into question the accurancy of the federal estimates for the current year which were tabled last November, relating in particular to the federal share of the joint cost programs.


I have made inquiries and the answer as to whether there was a formal warning would have to be clarified. I hoped to be able to present a somewhat lengthy statement outlining all the facts but was unable to agree on a procedure for doing this. As the estimates of the Treasury Board are to be called this afternoon, perhaps this will provide a suitable occasion.


But
it is health and welfare today.


PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND CAUSEWAY______
On the orders of the day:
My
question is for the Prime Minister; it is prompted by the information that Premier Campbell of Prince Edward Island and his cabinet are coming to Ottawa to press for the construction of the Northumberland strait causeway. Can the Prime Minister advise us whether he is receiving representations from Premier Robichaud in connection with this important project?


I doubt whether the question as asked is in order. The hon. member asks whether representations have been received, and I suggest that in those terms the question is not in order.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. Is the minister now in a position to say whether the government has any plan to confer with the provinces in respect of the setting up of joint financial assistance in the field of Metis housing?
Inquiries of the Ministry


This question is under study. As my hon. friend is aware we already have an arrangement with the province of Saskatchewan. One is under review at the moment with the province of Manitoba. This is a problem which is being given active consideration, and plans are moving forward.


Can the minister say how long he believes it will be before the plan is finalized so some action may be taken?


I cannot say, but I shall be glad to inquire and let my hon. friend know.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether Canada has been approached to join with Australia, Britain and Rhodesia in a four-nation treaty with the object of guaranteeing African rights in Rhodesia, and whether Canada would react fabourably to such a proposal.


I know of no such representation. I would have to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, some little time ago I asked the Minister of Transport whether a definitive opinion was being sought in respect of federal jurisdiction in the Roberts Bank affair. Is he now in a position to say whether that decision has been given, what it is, and what action may be expected?


We have asked for such an opinion from the legal officers of the crown, but it has not as yet been received.


Will the Minister of Transport say whether the chairman of the National Harbours Board was stating the minister's policy and that of the government when he

October 18, 1968
Inquiries of the Ministry said the federal government cannot provide any major developments to handle containers and unit trains at any particular port until the shipping companies make a decision concerning which port they wish to designate for international container traffic?


Order. The minister may wish to answer the question, but it is not quite within the rules. It is in order to ask whether statements made by ministers outside the house are in accord with government policy, but it is not in order to ask whether statements made by officials are in accord with government policy. In any event I might allow the minister to answer the question.


The justification for the question is its extreme urgency.


I have not seen the statement by the chairman of the National Harbours Board to which my hon. friend refers. I would not like to make any comment until I have seen it. There certainly is a relationship between the provision of facilities and the demand for their use.


Has the minister or the government given any undertakings to any of the shipping conferences or any foreign shippers which would ensure their confidence in Canada's ability and intention to meet the requirements of international container traffic?


In general I would say we would assure all shippers that we will make an effort to provide the facilities necessary to facilitate the movement of goods in the most economical manner. If my hon. friend has a more specific case in mind I would be glad to look into it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, while the Minister of Transport is still here, and on the days when he will not be here next week, will he use his good offices to discuss with the acting house leader the organization of the committee on transport and communications, which committee could define many of the problems about which he has been asked?


I am sure we will have the full co-operation of the house leader in this connection.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, is the Minister of Transport now in a position to indicate whether the study of which he spoke on December 13 with regard to extension of the season at Churchill is now available and will be made public?


I would have to take that question as notice. I am not sure whether it falls into the category of public documents.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. In view of the minister's long, strong personal record of support for increases in the pensions of retired civil servants, can he say whether this matter is actually under consideration by the government of which he is now a member?


Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to add to the answer I gave to a similar question a very short time ago.


Since the answer was that the matter is under consideration, will there be an anouncement about this matter at an early date?


Probably in due course.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the right hon. Prime Minister. May I join with others in wishing him happy birthday. In view of the absence all this week of the Minister of Defence Production would the Prime Minister give the people and the employees of Fairey Aviation in Canada some assurance that this company will not go down the drain before the minister gets back to work?


Order.
October 18, 1988	COMMONS
[DOT] (11:50 a.m.)

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Bechard in the chair.


Order, please. The house again in committee of supply, revised estimates of the Department of National Health and Welfare for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1969. Vote 1 will be found at page 340 of the blue book. The details thereof are listed at page 343.


1. Departmental administration including recoverable expenditures on behalf of the Canada Pension Plan, and $500,000 for health grants and welfare grants, under terms and conditions approved by the Treasury Board for research and demonstration activities in the field of mental retardation, $4,466,000.
Mr. Chairman and members of the house, this parliament and its predecessors have charged the Department of National Health and Welfare with responsibility for promoting, preserving and improving the health, social security and social welfare of all Canadians. The five years that ended in 1967 saw the introduction of new, major programs such as the Canada Pension Plan, the Canada Assistance Plan, medicare, the health resources fund, the guaranteed income supplement and youth allowances.
These estimates for the fiscal year 1968-69 which are now before the committee do not contain additional moneys for new programs, other than the first fragments under medicare, but rather additional moneys for the improvement and extension of current programs. At $3.2 billion they are 26.3 per cent of the comparable federal government expenditures forecast for this same year, a true indication of the emphasis which this government places on programs designed to improve the health and well-being of the Canadian people.
This $3.2 billion has three major components: $1.6 billion for forecast expenditures from the non-budgetary old age security fund; $1.5 billion for budgeted statutory items, and $133 million to be voted by parliament. These show an increase of $403.2 million of 14 per cent over 1967-68. By major component they are: a $149 million or 10 per cent increase in payments from the old age security fund; a $253.8 million or 20 per cent increase in budgeted statutory items, and a $1.4 million or 1 per cent increase in voted items.
DEBATES	1535
Supply-National Health and Welfare
The $149 million increase in payments from the old age security fund reflects the lowering of the eligibility age to 67 on January 1, 1968 and to 66 on January 1, 1969.
The $253.8 million increase in budgeted statutory items includes: a $136.4 million increase in hospital insurance reflecting an increase in both outpatient and inpatient rates as well as a net increase in population; a $91.9 million increase for the Canada Assistance Plan which is due to a greater utilization of the plan by the provinces for such items as increased costs of institutional care for both adults and children, improvement in child welfare programs and increases in foster home payments for children. It also includes an extension of health services for persons in need, plus improvements in the level of benefits.
There is also a $35 million increase to provide the federal share of costs under medicare; a $7.5 million increase in funds required by the provinces from the health resources fund; a $2.2 million increase in payments under the youth allowances program which reflect both the effect of high birth rates in the early 1950's and the fact that a large proportion of youths are continuing their education beyond age 16; an $11.2 million decrease in old age assistance reflecting the reduction in the eligibility age for payments from the old age security fund; and a $9.8 million decrease in blind persons and disabled persons allowances reflecting the transfer of payments under these categorical programs to the Canada Assistance Act.
The $1.4 million increase in voted items includes:	a $1.8 million increase in the cost
of operating the medical services program which reflects a general increase in most activities of the program; a $1.4 million increase in the cost of providing food and drug services which reflects a further strengthening of the inspection and enforcement activities basic to its program; a $1.5 million increase in family assistance payments reflecting a forecast increase in the number of immigrant children not eligible under the family allowance programs; a $1 million decrease in the health services program reflecting mainly the phasing out of further additions to the emergency health services medical stockpiling program, and a $2 million decrease in the hospital construction grants program reflecting a lowering of payments against construction in the year. I would point out that while the forecast payments
October 18, 1963
1536	COMMONS
Supply-National Health and Welfare have decreased, the funds required for commitment to projects has increased by $4 million.
In the foregoing analysis I have attempted to highlight significant changes in the department's proposed expenditures for 1968-69. I stated at the outset that these estimates did not contain additional moneys for new programs but rather additional moneys for the improvement and extension of current programs. Examples of this are to be found in the Canada Assistance Plan, where agreements have been entered into with all provinces under part 1 of the plan the part which covers assistance and welfare services for the general public. Negotiations have also been carried on with the Yukon and Northwest territories to enter into such agreements. Provision is made under part 2 of the plan for the federal-provincial agreement to cover the extension of the provincial assistance and welfare services program to Indians living on reservations, crown lands or unorganized territory. Active negotiations have been carried out on this matter with all the provinces. Although no agreements have yet been signed, the final stages of including an agreement under part 2 of the plan with the province of Ontario are at present under way.
Provision is made under part 3 of this act for contributions toward work activity projects that are designed to benefit persons who have unusual difficulty in obtaining or holding employment or participating in training or rehabilitation programs. Considerable discussions have been held with the provinces and to date six have signed agreements under part 3. Another example of improvement and extension of existing programs that falls under the Canada Pension Plan is the payment of survivors' benefits which started for the first time in February of this year. Payment of disability pensions is scheduled to come into effect early in 1970 and all planning in the area of survivors' benefits has been carried out jointly with the Quebec Pension Plan. Further planning and organization in relation to the administration of disability pensions will proceed on schedule in order that the payment of these pensions may be made, in accordance with the act, in 1970. One last example, Mr. Chairman, is the Indian health activity of medical services. Members of this committee are aware, from previous statements in the house, that the resources required for Indian health will be provided.
[Mr. Munro.l

[DOT] (12 noon)
There are many other areas of the department's operations where improvement or extension of services is being actively pursued. Rather than continuing at length on each, I cite these three examples and leave it to individual members of the committee to pursue, as I am sure they will, those programs which hold special interest for them.


Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask the minister a question. Before we begin an examination of the estimates of the minister's department, can he tell us whether any really serious consideration has been given to financial priorities in respect of the programs which come under his department, and in particular to increasing the old age pensions of those people across the nation who are in dire need? I believe this is one of the most important things facing the government today.


Mr. Chairman, I am sure the hon. member is well aware of all the measures we have taken during the last two or three years to improve the situation of these people. We have increased the old age pension, and we have tied it to the cost of living index. There is the guaranteed income supplement under which we have provided an additional $30 to those people who can show they do not have an adequate income, bringing the total pension up to $105. When the increase based on the cost of living is counted it is higher than that. I think we have moved forward very strongly in this area in order to help these people, but for the forthcoming year this is not one of our priorities.


I thank the minister for his frankness.


Mr. Chairman, first I should like to congratulate the minister upon his appointment and say to him that he has a department that spends a tremendous amount of money. I believe the spending by his department is next to that of the defence department. The Department of National Health and Welfare is responsible for many growing, open-end programs. I realize that costs tend to increase when carrying out such programs.
The cost of the medical insurance plan operating in the province of Ontario is increasing at the rate of $2 million per week, or an increase of $1 a month for every man, woman and child in the province. This gives us all a great deal of cause for concern. Where does it
October 18, 1968	COMMONS
stop? When do we reach the point of being unable to provide these services? Somewhere along the line will the government have to say that they have to put off essential services or have to put off a program with top priority, such as education in our medical schools and universities?
I believe my own profession should take a look into the future. When I say this I am fully aware of the tremendous advances that have been made in research by doctors. Their long and patient hours of tedious work have benefited mankind beyond anything I can say. This has been a tremendous century of medical progress. Prior to 1900 comfort, solace and the strengthening of the patient's will and determination to get well was the big asset of a doctor. I believe it was Osier, the great teacher, who cited the case of the footman who cured his pneumonia in a stable without medical care. That was around 1900.
We did have vaccination prior to this century, and today we have an armament of vaccines, toxoids and injectables to prevent and cure disease. We also have antibiotics for curing diseases, thus saving millions of dollars to the economy. I do not know whether anybody has estimated the actual amount saved because of these wonder drugs. A great many people have been restored to health and returned to work because of them. Millions of people who are living, working and contributing to the economy would not be alive without the medical discoveries of this century.
We are now in the era of organ transplants. This is comparable to placing a man on the moon, and it is tremendously expensive. Osier, to whom I have already referred, used to say that pneumonia was the old person's friend; it was a blessing in disguise because in a few days the suffering from all life's ailments was over. Today antibiotics, diuretics and oxygen are given, and soon the patient is better. The point is that today millions of people are living who a few years ago would have passed on. Today these people are with us, some of them living an enjoyable life and some even working. Some require further chronic care.
I have noted that in 1967-68 the estimate for hospitalization and diagnostic services was $423 million. That is to be found at page 355 of the revised estimates. For 1968-69 the estimate is $560 million, an increase of $71 million. I also noted that in the budget white paper the figure for 1968 is $468 million and for 1967, $397 million. An increase of $71 million represents just under 20 per cent.
DEBATES	1537
Supply-National Health and Welfare This is a shared program with the provinces, and taking the budget paper figures this means in effect an increase to the federal government of approximately $87 million, to the provinces another $87 million, and to the public who pay about one-third, another $87 million. It is an increase, as I have said before, of about 18 per cent. The likelihood is-and this is something one should keep in mind-that this amount will increase faster than our gross national product. Over the years we have seen the figure increase by 15 per cent and 16 per cent; yet governments continue to estimate the increase at 7 per cent. To my mind this is completely unrealistic.
The point I am making is that the older we get, the more hospital beds we use and the more physician's care we need. This increases the cost of medicare. As a matter of fact, after the age of 35 the rate of illness starts to climb. From one year to 35 years the most common cause of death is by accidental means. Prior to the advent of scientific discoveries in this era there were far more deaths by illness from the age of one year to 35 years because of motor car accidents, motorcycle accidents, drownings, and so forth. Today these accidents kill over 5,000 people a year in Canada and mean that one hospital bed in ten is occupied by an accident victim.
This is a real challenge to all of us because we should be able to cut down the accident rate. If we can do this, many more beds will be available in our hospitals. Every effort must be made by the government to cut down the accident rate. Action must be taken by the federal, provincial and municipal governments to solve this problem. As I have already said, from age 35 on illness and medical care increase. By the age of 50 one person in ten has some cardiovascular disease, and cancer takes a frightening toll.
[DOT] (12:10 p.m.)
The one way in which we can reduce the requirement for hospital beds is by preventing accidents. This means that more research is necessary to find the causes of accidents and prevent them. The present government is niggardly in its financial assistance for research, and only one-tenth of what is spent in the United States for this purpose is spent in Canada. This also means that our bright young graduates who wish to go into research do not have the job opportunities in Canada, so they simply go across the border. This is the most penny wise and pound foolish policy
1538	COMMONS
Supply-National Health and Welfare we could devise. In my own profession of medicine it costs $50,000 for each young graduate to go through medical school, to say nothing of what it costs to raise them to the age at which they are ready to go to medical school.
Hospital and diagnostic services schemes are a decade old and their cost is rapidly increasing. I am sure the minister is as concerned about this as I am.
Another thing which concerns me greatly is the sharp difference in costs among the provinces. I wonder what the reason for this is. The daily cost per bed in Quebec is $47.53 while in Saskatchewan the cost is $42. In large metropolitan hospitals the daily cost per bed is $69 in Quebec and $48 in Ontario. There is probably some explanation for this divergence but I would like to know the reason for it. In 1965 physicians' services cost $545 million, while in 1968 they were estimated at over $800 million, an increase in the three years of nearly 50 per cent. Fee schedules did not increase that much, but there was a sharp increase in 