Mr. Speaker, I beg leave to move, seconded by the hon. member for Lambton-Kent (Mr. McCutcheon), the adjournment of the house under standing order 26 to discuss a matter of urgent public importance, namely the failure of the government to take appropriate measures to protect the Canadian farmers by preventing the dumping of American com in Canada at fire sale prices, as well as the government's failure to take action to stabilize prices for Canadian corn producers, resulting in the disastrous collapse of the Canadian corn market.
If Your Honour finds some difficulty in determining the urgency of the matter, I am prepared to debate it at this time.


Order, please. As the hon. member realizes, it is not the urgency of the matter that most concerns the Chair at the moment but the urgency of debate on the matter. I would invite the hon. member to address the house on this limited aspect of the matter.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. The urgency of debate arises from the subject matter of the motion, which relates to antidumping provisions. I am firmly convinced there is no way in which the question of anti-dumping provisions can be debated at this time. It is urgent that the debate take place now because measures would have to be implemented immediately in order to save for the farmers any substantial part of the 1968 market.
[DOT] (11:10 a.m.)
A further factor relating to urgency of debate is the fact that only this morning was it fully apparent that the government had absolutely nothing to offer to relieve the disastrous situation in which the com producers find themselves. Up until yesterday the
minister had left the impression that some kind of action would be taken by the government.
That suggestion was completely dissipated today. Now that we know nothing is being done to deal in a practical way with the situation resulting from the dumping of cheap United States corn at fire sale prices, it is up to this parliament to act. That is why the farmers have arrived here today to bring their case to parliament, and I submit, Mr. Speaker, they have a right to have their case heard. On another similar occasion last spring the farmers found the doors of parliament locked in their faces, the only time in the history of this nation that this has happened. I maintain that this is an urgent and an important case nationally, and if parliament is to be once again closed off to the farmers, where are they to turn?
A great principle is involved here, and surely it must be admitted that it is not every day that the deliberations of this chamber are interrupted by the primary producers of this country seeking justice from this house; because that is all the farmers are asking. There is no other way in which this matter can be dealt with, no other way in which the farmers of this country can find justice other than to ask this house to interrupt its deliberations at this time to deal with the question of according them the opportunity to sell their products without interference.
For my part I do not feel the least embarrassment in asking this house to deal with this question now, because it is a question basic to our institutions and to the survival in this nation of the important producing industries which are at the very base and foundation of our economy. I am proud to make this request on behalf of the farmers of Canada. I wish the Minister of Agriculture would join me in my view that parliament would be fulfilling its functions nobly if it interrupted its proceedings now to deal with this very real, urgent and pressing grievance of the farmers of Canada at this time.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to say a few
words in support of the request that this motion be allowed, and I do so in terms of its procedural aspects. The citations regarding

October 4, 1968
Importation of U.S. Corn the use of standing order 26 are many and lengthy and they have often been put on the pages of Hansard, so I shall make only two brief quotations. The first is the first sentence of citation 100(1) in Beauchesne's fourth edition. It reads:
The definite matter ol urgent public importance for the discussion of which a member may ask leave to move adjournment of the house under Standing Order 26 must involve the administrative responsibility of the government.
The motion placed before you by the hon. member for Kent-Essex refers to the dumping of com in Canada at fire sale prices. When one is asking for something to be done against dumping, this clearly involves a matter that comes within the responsibility of the federal government. The urgency of the matter itself has been demonstrated by the number of times that questions have been asked in the last few days. It is also demonstrated by the presence of the farmers who are affected on parliament hill this morning. But of course Your Honour will bring us back to the point that urgency must apply to urgency of debate. Therefore let me read citation 100 (3), which is as follows:
"Urgency" within this rule does not apply to the matter itself, but it means "urgency of debate", when the ordinary opportunities provided by the rules of the house do not permit the subject to be brought on early enough and public interest demands that discussion take place immediately.
I draw Your Honour's attention to the fact that two or three efforts were made yesterday to have a discussion of this matter. In the first place an attempt was made to get the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Olson) to agree to revert to motions so that his statement could be read and the matter could be discussed on the floor of the house in that way. There was not unanimous agreement to this procedure. Later in the day serious effort was made to get the committee to agree to discuss this question of the plight of the corn growers during discussion of the legislation that was then before us.
There was not unanimous consent that this be done, so the chairman of the committee of the whole had no option but to apply the rule of relevancy.
The business for today has been announced. It relates to advance payments for grain, which affect the grain producers in the western provinces. The business for next week has been announced, in accordance with a practice recently instituted. If one looks over the items scheduled for next week one does not find an item under which this problem

could be discussed. Frequently Your Honour is in a position where there is a supply motion coming or estimates or something of that nature to which Your Honour can draw our attention. There is nothing of that sort at this juncture. We are therefore faced with the fact that it was not possible to discuss the matter yesterday, it is not possible to do so today and there will be no opportunity to discuss it next week. I feel, therefore, that the motion by the hon. member for Kent-Essex comes within the purview of citation 100, subparagraph (3), and I hope Your Honour will see fit to allow it.


Mr. Speaker, there is no doubt that the motion of the hon. member for Kent-Essex (Mr. Dan-forth) is of major interest, not only to the Ontario corn producers but also to the population as a whole.
We are in favour of the adjournment proposed by the motion, and our attitude is justified by the presence on parliament hill of the com producers delegation who have come to ask some measure of justice in regard to their work.
As a representative of agriculture, I must, with my colleagues, support the motion of the member, and I am happy to do so.


Mr. Speaker, many of the points I wish to make in support of the motion have already been covered by the hon. member for Kent-Essex and the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre. However, there are one or two matters which have not been brought to your attention.
One relates to this question of urgency. Your Honour may assume that while there is no immediate supply motion planned nor are there any estimates to be considered shortly, this question may well be discussed within the next three or four weeks. However, I am afraid that would not be satisfactory because of the United States corn which has been dumped on the markets of the United States and this country by the United States government. This corn is having a depressing effect on the Canadian market. I am reliably informed that com prices yesterday in Chatham, which is the centre for much of this product in southern Ontario, were $1.05 per bushel, and the price is still falling as it has been falling all week.
It has been pointed out already in this house that the cost of the production of this
October 4, 1968

item is about $1.22 per bushel. If the price continues to fall at this rate, and if the debate takes place only in three or four weeks, then the farmers will be ruined. There is therefore urgency of debate in connection with this matter now.
There is one other point I should like to mention. Your Honour might very well say there is agricultural legislation before the house. Second reading of some bills will be called shortly, and there will then be a rather broad latitude in debate to discuss agricultural matters. If Your Honour refers back to decisions of your deputy and the deputy chairman of committees, even during the resolution stage when very broad latitude is normally permitted, Your Honour's juniors in office would not permit discussion of this subject.
[DOT] (11:20 a.m.)
For that reason, Mr. Speaker, there will be no opportunity to debate this matter at an early stage. If this state of affairs continues for several weeks it will be too late to take any action. Therefore I respectfully submit that there is urgency of debate and that we should deal with this matter today.


Mr. Speaker, I agree that a very serious problem is involved here in view of citation 100, to be found at page 89 of Beauchesne's fourth edition. That citation says that a motion to adjourn the house under standing order 26 must involve the administrative responsibility of the government.
I agree, Mr. Speaker, that import and export control does in fact involve the administrative responsibility of this government. However, I think it would be stretching it a long way to argue that changes in the price of corn in the market place involve the administrative responsibility of this government, notwithstanding the fact that we do recognize that there is a serious problem here.
Paragraph 2 of citation ICO says the matter must be so pressing that the public interest will suffer if it is not given immediate attention. I agree that the matter needs immediate attention, but I suggest to Your Honour that immediate attention has been given and that action has already been taken. The decision was announced yesterday that negotiations would be initiated at once with the United States government to find ways and means of dealing with the problem created by United States corn coming into Canada at distress
Importation of U.S. Corn prices. I am sure all hon. members of the house realize that under our international agreements this is the first essential step to be taken in seeking such a solution.
Paragraph 3 of citation 100 deals with urgency, and this means not urgency of the matter but urgency of debate. Debate should only be had when the public interest demands that discussion take place immediately. I suggest that the action that is essential in seeking a solution to this problem has already been taken, and that any discussion in this house would not immediately add anything to the action already initiated.
However, Mr. Speaker, there is a prohibition in paragraph 5 which reads:
The adjournment of the house cannot be moved with reference to critical conditions generally prevailing in certain parts of the country.
I should like to couple that with part of paragraph 8 of citation 100, which quotes the Speaker of the British House of Commons as saying in part:
What I think was contemplated, was an occurrence of some sudden emergency, either in home or in foreign affairs. But I do not think it was contemplated-if the house will allow me to state my views-that a question of very wide scope, which would demand legislation to deal with it in any effective manner, should be the subject of discussion on a motion for the adjournment of the house, because, if that was so, we might have repeated motions made by the opposition of the day, not so much in the direction of censuring the government for action which had been taken or not taken, for bringing to notice some grievance demanding instant remedy, as in the direction of wishing to introduce legislation on some particular subject.
The citation closes by saying:
That is not the purpose of the standing order-
That has reference to standing order 26.


Will the minister permit a question?


I suggest that-


Will the minister permit a question?


After a while-all the action that ought to be taken and that has been taken meets the provisions of standing order 26, and that the government already has moved to take appropriate action to try to deal with this matter. In conclusion I say there is no evidence of the dumping of corn by United States growers in Canada when one considers the usual definition of dumping.


The minister has invented a new definition

October 4, 1968
Importation of U.S. Corn


Order, please. I hesitate to interrupt the minister, but I must remind him that we are discussing at the moment the question of urgency of debate, and perhaps at this point the minister is going beyond that limit.


He is entering into debate.


There is one more point I must mention. Hon. members of the opposition have based their argument on the premise that there has been dumping in Canada of United States corn. We have investigated, and we do not believe there is any evidence of corn coming in here and being dumped or sold at prices below the price offered in the United States. If one applies the usual definition of dumping one must concede that corn is not coming into this country at prices low enough to constitute dumping.


Will the minister permit a question?


Certainly.


In view of the minister's explanation, if there is no dumping why did the government belatedly, after knowing for a week that the farmers were on their way, decide officially yesterday that they were going to get in touch with the United States authorities to stop the dumping?


Hear, hear.


I have a full, complete and comprehensive reply to that question.


Oh, oh.


It is about as good as the rest of the minister's statements.


Order, please. Is the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre rising to ask a question of the minister?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Has the hon. member ascertained whether the minister wishes to reply to his question?


Yes, I shall reply.


Since the minister read only part of paragraph 8 of citation 100, would he tell us, since it is right in the citation, in what year the decision he relies on was given? Does he not

think there may have been some changes since 1894?


Oh, oh.


I can do that-


That is about as up to date as the minister is.


I can do that, but I must also remind the hon. member-


You couldn't do anything.


Order, please.


I could do that, Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. I think the hon. member's question was argumentative. I think we might move on and have a contribution by another hon. member.


I wish to address myself briefly to the question of urgency of debate. This morning the question of whether there has been dumping of United States corn in Canada was raised. The minister said to the farmers not long ago, in front of this house, that there was dumping and that he was prepared to take action. Now he says there is no dumping. I say that shows all the more reason for debating this matter fully today.


Hear, hear.


First, there is evidence in the country today that past policies have failed. Yesterday, when an attempt was made to debate this question in this house we on this side of the chamber were ruled out of order. The minister promised the farmers that he would get in touch with the United States authorities and talk with them about the question of corn coming into Canada. If the government's present policy has failed, and if the minister is to attempt to enunciate new policy to the United States, then surely he ought to be sent to the United States armed with the correct facts and a full knowledge of the problems confronting the farmers of this country.
Today we saw a mass demonstration before this house, and it is sad that our primary producers have to go to such lengths to have their grievance heard. Surely parliament has the right to have its say on this urgent question; surely, Mr. Speaker, this is an urgent question that ought to be debated.
Oclober 4, 1968

[DOT] (11:30 a.m.)


I shall not refer again at this point to the rules or to the relevant citations in Beauchesne; I intend to confine my remarks to the question of urgency of debate, and point out that there are in fact several opportunities for this important question to be discussed by the house.
Hon. members opposite have debated whether or not this involves dumping. I call attention to the fact that there is presently on the notice paper a motion to refer the antidumping white paper, which could come forward for discussion next Monday. There will be full opportunity then to discuss this subject. If hon. members opposite wish, I am prepared to call the motion next Monday to allow this particular subject to be discussed.


Call it today.


I would point out to the hon. member for Crowfoot that it was placed on the order paper only last night, and I think we should abide by the rules.


By unanimous consent it could be called.


The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre referred to the fact that yesterday I set out the business to be dealt with during the coming week. I do not like to mention discussions outside this chamber with other hon. members, but I am sure the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre will agree that there is a supply motion available under the arrangements we have established for dealing with supply this fall. Whether the supply motion should come forward at an early date, that is in the coming week, is a question which was left to hon. members opposite. I repeat that if hon. members opposite wish to have a supply motion called on Monday I would be pleased to change the order of business which I set out yesterday in order to make possible the debate on supply to which the opposition has a right under the procedure we have established.
Apart altogether from the opportunities for debate available in the house as a whole, the government has stated its intention to refer the estimates of the departments generally to the standing committees. As I have already indicated to members of the opposition, if they choose to use the supply days in the house to discuss the estimates of any department the government is prepared to agree,
Importation of U.S. Corn and we can call the estimates of the Department of Agriculture in the near future. In fact, not only do we have the three opportunities for debate in the house which I have mentioned, but if the house chooses to refer the estimates of the Department of Agriculture to the standing committee on agriculture there will be an early opportunity to consider the estimates in that committee and deal with this subject, as soon as I receive from parties opposite the list of those they wish to be appointed to the standing committees, enabling the committees to be set up.
I therefore submit there will be plenty of opportunity in the near future for this question to be dealt with both in committee of supply and in the standing committee. If the opposition wishes I am prepared to call the supply motion for Monday, when hon. members will have full opportunity to discuss this question they would like to deal with, and have it debated fully.


That is an admission it is urgent.


The
Minister of Agriculture advanced two arguments by means of which he attempted to show that there is no urgency of debate as far as this subject is concerned. I submit that both arguments are fallacious.
The first and most important point he made was that any action which could be taken had already been taken. This is simply not the case. There are several other forms of action which could be taken to relieve this acute situation faced not only by corn growers but by other producers.
First, an embargo could be imposed. This is a form of action which might well be discussed in this chamber today. Second, the government could enforce measures of import control, another form of action which might be discussed here today. A third form of action which could be taken would be to place corn under the provisions of the stabilization act and announce a stabilization payment. This approach too could be discussed. These are three measures by which this urgent situation could be met. They all require discussion, yet the minister has insisted that all the action which could be taken has already been taken. His argument falls to the ground.
The second argument advanced by the minister, as I understand it, was that this is more or less a local matter. In fact the importation of corn in large quantities will have a

October 4, 1968
Importation of U.S. Corn serious effect on all grain producers not only in eastern Canada but in western Canada. It will also have serious effects upon livestock production and marketing.
The President of the Privy Council said a supply motion could be called on Monday. What he is attempting to do is this. He is attempting to dictate to the opposition the form of supply motion they should introduce. He is saying in effect "This is the form of supply motion you must use if you wish to discuss this matter at all".


There will be half a dozen more emergencies by Monday.


I contend that the time to discuss this subject is now, and that there is no other opportunity available in the immediate future unless we find ourselves in the position that we must use our supply motion for the purpose, and we only have one this session.


Order. I am prepared to give a ruling now, if hon. members will allow me. I gather the hon. member for Edmonton West is seeking the floor.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I wish to deal specifically with the arguments put forward by the President of the Privy Council. I suggest to Your Honour that those arguments are an attempt to frustrate the purpose of standing order No. 26. If we accept the proposition he advanced, the remedy available to this house under that standing order can be neutralized simply by the existence within the rules of the possibility of calling the estimates of a particular department or of utilizing a supply motion.
This has never been contemplated. If we follow the argument of the President of the Privy Council we might as well wipe out standing order 26. Opportunities for discussion on estimates and supply motions do exist, but it was never in the contemplation of this house that they should be utilized as a substitute for what may be done under standing order 26. This is the point I would direct to Your Honour's attention.


Mr. Speaker,
I merely wish to comment briefly on the debate in progress.
Like many other members, I believe that a good government must, above all, show foresight. Therefore, I feel that the demonstration going on this morning on parliament hill is

due to the fact that the government did not foresee the present agricultural crisis. The leader of the house suggests that we wait till next Monday to discuss the matter. I wonder why we could not do it now, seeing the farmers are here-I expect they will not be here on Monday and, therefore, they will be unable to witness the debate.
That is one of the reasons why I feel that we should start the debate immediately on the present crisis.


Hon. members know it is always extremely difficult for the Chair to reach a decision in the case of a motion under standing order 26. Very strong arguments are normally put forward, as they have been today, for the granting of the motion; and strong arguments are advanced-as is also the case this morning, I suggest-against the granting of such a motion. The Chair has the responsibility to weigh one against the other in the light of the precedents and the citations. In my view citation 100(3) is very much to the point:
[DOT] (11:40 a.m.)
"Urgency" within this rule does not apply to the matter itself, but it means "urgency of debate," when the ordinary opportunities provided by the rules of the house do not permit the subject to be brought on early enough and public interest demands that discussion take place immediately.
I have the impression, in spite of the interpretation placed on the rules by the hon. member for Edmonton West, that when there is an opportunity provided, then the rule should not be applied. The President of the Privy Council has referred to opportunities during the coming days, such as the supply motion. I know there is some difficulty, and I recognize the objection which has been advanced by the hon. member for Edmonton West. I gather there is also a possible vehicle for discussion under the item of business standing in the name of the President of the Privy Council to which the minister has referred.
I would think that because of these opportunities in the very near future it would be very difficult for the Chair to allow the motion, although the matter might be reviewed later on; but for this morning, and in view of the statement of the President of the Privy Council, I cannot see my way clear to accepting the motion of the hon. member.
October 4, 1968


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to address a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Will the minister give a report to the house on his meetings with the delegation of Ontario farmers this morning; and will he state what undertakings, if any, he gave to those farmers on action with respect to the grave problems faced by the Ontario corn growers?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, but under the rules I will not be able to make as long a reply as I would like. Just a few minutes ago we had a very satisfactory meeting with the Ontario corn producers who are here protesting against the decline in the prices received for their corn in Ontario. I think it was an exchange of views that was useful both to me, as the representative of the government and to the members of the union.
I gave an undertaking that we had initiated action, and that we were going to pursue it immediately, to make sure there was no corn coming into Canada below the United States support level. At what price that level is, is something we intend to argue. It is not all that clear because of the very complex way in which the United States pays subsidies to its corn producers. But without transgressing the rules of this house, Mr. Speaker, I think it was a useful meeting.
There were suggestions made in other areas to which we made a tentative reply, and they will be under investigation and future study. There will be an additional response later.


Mr. Speaker, arising from the minister's statement that he intends to meet with United States officials on this matter, will he say whether the government will impose a temporary embargo on some classes of corn coming into the country to prevent a further fall in the market price?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Oxford knows probably better than most members of this house what our obligations are under our international agreements, and I am sure he will be the first to recognize that we have taken the most useful appropriate action within the bounds of the agreements Canada has signed.


Will the minister not agree that this same kind of action was taken with
Inquiries of the Ministry respect to the importation of turkeys a few years ago?


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture whether in addition to the undertaking to discuss this problem with the United States department of agriculture the government intends to take any concrete action besides discussions?


The first step, Mr. Speaker, is to discuss.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs but in his absence I will address it to the Prime Minister. Has the government received a note from United States Secretary of State Dean Rusk calling on the Canadian government in rather blunt terms to maintain its present troop strength and nuclear capability in Europe; and will the Prime Minister say whether the note from the Secretary of State will receive a formal reply from the government of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I think this same question was answered a few days ago by the Secretary of State for External Affairs.


I do not recall that it was, Mr. Speaker, but I would like to address a supplementary question to the Prime Minister and ask whether he can confirm that he discussed the role of NATO in Europe during his talks with the Prime Minister of France earlier this week, and would he indicate to the house the nature of those discussions?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. In our review of international affairs we did discuss the problem of NATO, France's relation to it, and the view of the French government on the happenings in Europe which have some bearing on NATO.


As a further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, does the Prime Minister contemplate having similar discussions at an early date with the governments of some of our other NATO allies, such as the United States, on this same subject?
October 4, 1968

Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, the Secretary of State for External Affairs is in New York, and I am quite sure it is contemplated that there will be informal meetings there of NATO member countries to discuss these problems. I am not quite sure of the agenda, but I have heard the Secretary of State for External Affairs say that he intended discussing NATO problems with them.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a further brief supplementary question on this important subject to the Minister of National Defence. Would the minister say whether reconsideration is being given to the government's announced policy of closing the Canadian forces base at Zweibrucken in Germany, which closing is to take place next summer?


Mr. Speaker, this problem, like most of the problems concerning national defence, is under review.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the hon. Minister of Agriculture.
In view of the numerous complaints we have received concerning the payment of subsidies to industrial milk producers, does the Minister of Agriculture intend to contact the data centre with a view to finding a more efficient way of distributing subsidies to the parties concerned?


I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, my attention was diverted for a moment. I wonder whether the hon. member would mind repeating his question.


I would like to ask the hon. Minister of Agriculture whether, following the numerous complaints we receive from our constituents, he intends to make representations to the data centre in order to find an efficient way of paying subsidies to the producers of industrial milk.


Mr. Speaker, we already have a reasonably satisfactory means of distributing quotas to industrial milk producers. This is under review, but by and large it is generally accepted by the dairy producers of Canada as reasonably satisfactory.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the hon. Minister of Agriculture.
In his opinion, can a delay of three months in the payment of subsidies be considered an efficient system?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister a question concerning the Prince Edward Island-New Brunswick causeway. In view of the great concern in Prince Edward Island, obviously shared by Premier Campbell, regarding this project, will the Prime Minister or the Minister of Public Works make an early and full statement to the house about this very important matter so the people of the area can realistically plan their future economy rather than leave any uncertainty?


Mr. Speaker, there is nothing to add to what the Minister of Transport stated to the house yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether this very important project is being considered purely on its merits, or is the announcement of an unfavourable decision being delayed pending the preparation of a suitable booby prize for Prince Edward Island?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the speech he made at Calgary the night before last, in which he said the government was looking

October 4, 1968	COMMONS
for programs which have served their purpose and might be discontinued, can he indicate to the house which programs the government has in mind either for discontinuance or for cutting down so far as the amount of money involved is concerned?
Bight Hon. P.-E. Trudeau (Prime Minister):
Mr. Speaker, I was stating a general principle that I am sure the members of the opposition would agree with; that we have to discontinue programs which we do not find up to standard. We gave an example of such programs when we discontinued the winter works program.


As
a supplementary question, since the Prime Minister referred in his speech to the Canada Assistance Plan and programs like that, are they due for discontinuance?


I think the hon. member is in error, Mr. Speaker. I do not believe I referred to the Canada Assistance Plan. I did refer to all the social security, health and post-secondary education programs in general, and I did indicate that we were trying to find means of promoting greater economy in the application of all plans.


May
I just remind the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker, that on page 4 of the text which was issued from his office there is a reference to the Canada Assistance Plan.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Do I gather from his remarks that it is not the intention of his government to increase old age pensions for those people in need, and pensions for veterans and other such people in need?


The hon. member for Abitibi.


Mr. Speaker, I think the Prime Minister wanted to answer that question according to the just society, and these people are certainly just in need.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the absence of the Minister of Finance I should like to ask the Prime Minister if he can advise the house whether the government received a formal warning from officials of the Ontario government earlier this year that federal forecasts were gravely underestimating the total cost of the post-secondary education and hospitalization programs?
DEBATES	793
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance will be here on Monday.


This is his day off.


These matters are dealt with by the Treasury Board. Perhaps the President of the Treasury Board has a statement to make.


Mr. Speaker, is the President of the Treasury Board in a position to advise the house whether such a warning was received?


Mr. Speaker, I have seen the newspaper article which I think gave rise to this question. It is a long and complicated one. I was assured some time ago that we were not in receipt of any formal communication, but I am having another check made.


In the
event that formal representations were received is the minister prepared to table them prior to the budget debate?


Mr. Speaker, formal communications between governments are, of course, subject to privilege. If indeed there were any I will look at them to determine whether they are privileged.


Mr. Speaker, my question is related to the questions regarding shared programs, and I address it to the Prime Minister. In view of his statement to the annual conference of Chamber of Commerce of Calgary the other day regarding cutbacks in government spending, can the Prime Minister inform the house whether he intends to go ahead with the medicare program which is expected to cost half a billion dollars in its initial year?


Mr. Speaker, as I have said before and now repeat, we are endeavouring to have federal-provincial meetings of ministers of finance and ministers in other areas of administration such as health and welfare to discuss all open ended programs. I refer to programs which are determined by statute and the spending on which cannot be controlled or perhaps even foreseen with accuracy. This proposition for federal-provincial meetings is now being forwarded.


Mr. Speaker, in connection with this careful review of the scope of a just society and the paring down of expenditures, what
October 4, 1968

Inquiries of the Ministry has the Prime Minister to say about the galloping increase month by month of the cost of the arts centre in Ottawa? Is this being looked into, and can the Prime Minister explain how the initial expenditure of about $15 million will now amount to an expected $54 million?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think the right hon. gentleman would expect us to discontinue this particular project in the name of a just society.


If that is so, why will the Prime Minister not give assurances in respect of social programs which atfect the average Canadian by saying those programs should not be reduced?


Mr. Speaker, I can not for the life of me see how it would help these poor people by knocking down this arts centre or terminating this project at this stage.


We are not trying to knock down the arts centre; we are trying to knock down the Prime Minister to give us some information.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question I would like to address to the Prime Minister related to his address to the Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Calgary yesterday. Can he say whether his announcement of government policy to cut back on certain programs for economic reasons included the present very stringent criteria applying to student loans? What was his reply to student demands at Regina on Wednesday?


Mr. Speaker, my reply was that students were not the most unfavoured class of our society and that all the amounts that had been set aside for loans by the federal government had not been taken up in past years. I said there was a greater supply of money for loans than had been demanded.


May I ask a
supplementary question of the Prime Minister related to his address in Calgary in which he referred to the extra attention being given to research in the business field? Will the Prime Minister assure the house that this extra attention to research will include the agricultural sector of the economy?


The Department of Agriculture is spending a great deal of money on research.


Not enough.


May I ask a supplementary question? Has the government received a request from the government of Saskatchewan for increased assistance for university student loans? If so, what action has been taken on this request?


Last summer, Mr. Speaker, I believe the Minister of Finance received a letter concerning this matter. The Minister of Finance replied that he would make sure that adequate funds were available in view of the increased demands by students in Saskatchewan for loans. These amounts were forthcoming. The house should know that over $6 million, I believe, was lent to students last year at the University of Saskatchewan and that to something like 7,200 students.


May I ask a further supplementary question? In order to meet increasing costs, both in the area of student loans and other welfare measures which so obviously concern the Prime Minister, is he giving consideration to the early introduction of a capital gains tax to defray some of these costs?


The Minister of Finance will deal with all the forms of taxation which we contemplate in his budget speech.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Prime Minister in view of the absence of the Solicitor General who, as a result of his crystal ball, left the chamber five minutes before I could ask my question. Will the Prime Minister indicate whether, in view of the government's decision not to re-establish the all-party joint Senate and House of Commons committee on penitentiary construction and policy, consideration will be given to referring the matter to a standing committee in order that this committee work can proceed? This is of great interest to the members of this house and of the other place.


Mr. Speaker, I will have to ask the Solicitor General to take this question as notice. It seems a reasonable suggestion.
October 4, 1968


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for Calgary North asked me whether I had received any request from the attorney general of the province of Quebec to set up a royal commission to examine the spreading of crime across the nation.
The answer to that question is no, the minister has not received any request from the province of Quebec to set up a royal commission. The hon. member will perhaps recall, as will the house, that on January 6 and 7, 1966, a federal-provincial conference of attorneys general on organized crime was held in Ottawa. As a result a committee was established of members from the attorney general departments of Ontario and Quebec to study this question of organized crime.
I think the hon. member will also recall that this committee published a report in August of 1967 recommending the establishment of a new central intelligence mechanism called the Canadian criminal intelligence system with headquarters in Ottawa. That system has been established with offices in all the provincial capitals except in Quebec. I understand they are still working on this problem.


Mr. Speaker, has the minister suggested or asked that the R.C.M.P. work in co-operation with the police forces of the urban centres in Canada in relation to organized crime which is now rampant across the country?


Mr. Speaker, the Solicitor General speaks on behalf of the mounted police, but I can say from experience that the R.C.M.P. are in constant co-operation with provincial and municipal police forces in this country.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Prime Minister. Will he tell the house whether the Minister of Justice was stating government policy when in a speech to the American real estate counsellors he said that
Inquiries of the Ministry nations should surrender some of their sovereignty and jurisdictional control to an international commission which would regulate multi-national corporations?


Mr. Speaker, there is no definite government policy to surrender sovereignty. But I should say that personally I think-


Oh, oh.


-this government is inclined more to institutions which are broadly international rather than toward nationalistic approaches.


Like NATO.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact that the Minister of Justice stated that the place to begin is in Canada-United States economic relations, will the Prime Minister say whether any discussions have been held with United States officials on this subject?


I know of no such discussions, Mr. Speaker, but I must say it sounds like a very good idea.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Is it the intention of the government to proceed with the plan of the Minister of Transport to appoint as president of Air Canada a man whose only qualification for the job is service to the Liberal party?


Oh, oh.


I recommended you, George, but they wouldn't do it.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport with respect to Air Canada. Has the government received the report from the investment experts on the reorganization of Air Canada, which was referred to twice last year?


Mr. Speaker, I am not sure exactly to which report my hon. friend is referring. A considerable number of studies
October 4, 1968

Inquiries of the Ministry have been made regarding the problem of financing the national air carrier, and these are under review at present to decide how best to finance the requirements of Air Canada both in the short and the long range.


As a supplementary question to the Prime Minister may I ask him if he would hold up any major changes in the executive structure of Air Canada until these reports are received?


The hon. member for Fundy Royal.


Mr. Speaker, I will rephrase my question because I think it is extremely important.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Transport just said he was not quite sure which report was referred to by the hon. member. I cannot promise to hold up decisions for which the opposition is pressing until these hypothetical reports which we cannot identify have been received.


Does the Prime Minister not feel that any new appointments of political hacks to Air Canada would greatly prejudice its rights as a public body?


Order, please.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, has the Prime Minister taken any steps to meet with the premier of Manitoba in relation to the pressing problems of the development of the townsite of Churchill, Manitoba?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I did have a meeting with the premier of Manitoba some weeks ago. It was followed up by some letters, and action is being prepared in our government departments.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact that I understand this meeting took place prior to September 12, has the Prime Minister yet replied to the letter of the premier of Manitoba dated September 12 asking for a meeting so this matter could be expedited?


I believe I have, Mr. Speaker, but I will check and confirm it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have quite a pleasant question to address to the Secretary of State. Would he express appreciation to the C.R.T.C. for its very firm action, as reported today, in encouraging private stations in Canada to live up to a reasonable standard of programming?


Mr. Speaker, I am willing to give this message to the C.R.T.C., just as I am ready to communicate the views expressed by all hon. members.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Could he tell us what price per gram we obtained for the plutonium sold to France?


Mr. Speaker, this question should be directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, who is not here at the moment. Out of curiosity 1 inquired about this. The sale was made under an agreement of a confidential nature between Atomic Energy of Canada Limited and the Commissariat de l'Energie atomique de France.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Does the recent sale of plutonium to France indicate an improved atmosphere for sales of uranium to that country?


Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. It seems to me that the question as asked is perhaps a little too general.
October 4, 1968


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether I might have leave of the house to revert to motions in order to make a brief statement on housing.


Is this agreed?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, hon. members already know that 1968 will be a record year for housing in Canada.


Hear, hear.


The original estimate of 175,000 new housing starts in all areas in Canada is now virtually assured, and there is every prospect that the final figure will be close to 185,000. However, distribution of new housing starts as between rental accommodation and single family dwellings for home ownership continues to cause concern. Multiple dwelling starts for the first nine months are 26 per cent higher than the comparable total for 1967, whereas the rate for single family dwellings is 8.4 per cent less than 1967.
The original estimate of housing starts for this year was based on the expectation that
100.000	multiple housing units for rental purposes and 75,000 single family dwellings for home ownership would be started in 1968. There would appear to be a very real possibility that single family dwellings started will fall short of 75,000 units and that multiple housing for rental purposes may exceed 100,000 housing units.
In order to alleviate the shortage of family accommodation, Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation has been authorized to make, from within its capital budget, $170 million available for commitments for home ownership dwellings during the balance of the year. This represents 9,000 units of new construction in the form of single family dwellings and condominium together with 2,000 loans on existing dwellings. It is estimated that of the 9,000 proposed commitments for single family dwellings approximately 3,000 will be for individual home owners. The remaining
6.000	units will be available for merchant builders.
Effective October 7, Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation will accept applications for loans from merchant builders, without a presale requirement. These loans will be distributed across the country on an equitable 29180-51

Inquiries of the Ministry basis with emphasis on houses of moderate cost.
In addition to the favourable employment results, this program together with the increased activity of institutional lenders will go some way to restoring the balance between rental and home ownership homes.


Mr. Speaker, in so far as the first page of the minister's statement is concerned, it is a Tweedledum and Tweedledee proposition because he has quoted statistics which show a shortfall on the estimate for single family dwellings and an excess in respect of apartments. I am sure there are good and valid reasons for this. One reason is that mortgage institutions are preferring to obtain a higher return from apartment buildings as against single family dwellings. With regard to the
9.000	units that are now to be the subject of, shall we say, direct loans from the corporation, I do not see why this program 