Eighth report of Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence-Mr. Wahn.
Mr. Speaker, following a statement earlier this week there have been certain discussions among representatives of the various parties in respect of the time to be allotted for the budget debate. I think there might be an agreement that an order of the house be made in respect of the budget debate on this occasion, that four sitting days, namely Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, inclusive, be allocated for this debate. If hon. members of the house are agreeable, I wonder whether this could perhaps be made an order of the house for that purpose. I suggest that four sitting days, namely Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, June 9 to June 12, 1969, inclusive, be designated for the consideration and disposition of the motion of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Benson), regarding the budget, and any amendments proposed thereto.
Perhaps it would also be agreeable that on Tuesday, June 10, 1969, at 9:45 p.m., Mr. Speaker shall interrupt the proceedings and forthwith put every question necessary to dispose of any amendment or subamendment, if any, then before the house. It is proposed that on Thursday, June 12, 1969, at 9:45 p.m., Mr. Speaker, shall interrupt the proceedings and forthwith put every question necessary to dispose of the said motion, and that no member, except the Minister of Finance (Mr. Benson), the member speaking first on behalf of the opposition, the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau), and the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Stanfield) shall speak for more than 20 minutes at a time in the budget debate; provided that 30 minutes shall be allowed to the
first spokesman of each of the two other parties, and that in relation to this order the provisions	of	Standing Order 60 be
suspended.
If there is general agreement, perhaps that could be adopted as an order of the house.


Mr. Speaker, I just want to say on behalf of the official opposition that this suggested order meets with our approval and agreement.


Mr. Speaker, it is always a pleasure when these agreements are reached, particularly in the peripatetic way in which we sometimes accomplish them, to rise and indicate confirmation. In this case, however, this agreement is acceptable, except in respect of one point. The last time I was involved in the consultations, the time for the lead-off speakers of the third and fourth parties was to be 40 minutes. Somewhere along the line ten minutes have been lost. I would prefer the agreement as it stood the last time I was consulted.


Mr. Speaker, I am not sure how that shortcoming occurred, but I would be prepared to extend the time by ten minutes if the house is generally in agreement.


Hon. members have heard the suggestion proposed by the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Macdonald). Subject to the amendments recommended by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles), is it so ordered?


Agreed.


the first reading of Bill S-35 (from the Senate), to amend the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act, and other statutory provisions related to the subject matter of certain of those amendments.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.

June 5, 1969
Inquiries of the Ministry
[DOT] (2:10 p.m.)


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister a question. In view of his concern to do everything feasible to avoid nuclear conflict-a concern which is shared by all members of the house-could he give us his reaction and the reaction of his government to the indications given by the British and United States Secretaries of Defence that a cut-back in contributions to NATO would create a need for the earlier use of nuclear weapons by the NATO forces in the event of conflict?


Mr. Speaker, I do not see how the logic of that argument could apply to the Canadian decision. If NATO were to withdraw completely its conventional forces, perhaps the proposition would be sustainable; but there is no suggestion on the part of this government or other members of NATO that we cease to provide conventional means of warfare. If, in our case we are trying to establish a kind of participation in NATO on a conventional basis, this, precisely because it is conventional, would not increase the danger of nuclear warfare.


For clarification, Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask this question. I am sure the Prime Minister understands that the suggestion is that the reduction in conventional forces would create a need for the earlier use of nuclear weapons. Am I to understand that the Prime Minister regards that as an invalid position on the part of the Secretaries of Defence of Great Britain and the United States, and that the government of Canada does not propose to review its decision in view of these indications?


Mr. Speaker, it is difficult to see the logic of this argument, which is based on the fact that we are reducing, or hoping to reduce, our nuclear commitments, that this would increase the danger of nuclear warfare.


Mr. Speaker, may I address a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. In view of reports of a very substantial increase in 1968 in the takeover of Canadian firms by American and other corporations, and in view of the very substantial increase in the number of mergers within Canada, would the minister now consider proposing legislation to strengthen the anti-merger and anti-monopoly sections of the Combines Investigation Act without waiting for the report of the Economic Council?


Mr. Speaker, the report to which the hon. member refers arises from a study released either this morning or last night-I am not quite sure when it was released; I received it this morning-carried out for the Economic Council on foreign takeovers in Canada. It is a statistical analysis based upon information provided by the combines investigation branch from their merger register. As the press release of the Economic Council of Canada, issued on June 3, says, they will be shortly publishing, I hope this month, a report on competition policy in Canada which I expect will deal with the whole question of mergers. As I said in my statement in committee the other day when my estimates were being considered, I have already set in motion within the department machinery to recieve the report and to revise the Combines Investigation Act as quickly as possible.
I think my position on that is clear. I think it would be most unwise for parliament to deal with a revised Combines Investigation Act until it has the report of the Economic Council of Canada on the subject.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I cannot say I disagree with what the minister said, but I should like to ask him whether, in view of what he has said, he would consider tabling a copy of the study and of the report of the combines investigation branch to the Economic Council of Canada, and also arrange for tabling the merger register itself or the parts of it that are relevant to this discussion.


I am not sure of the procedure for tabling the study done for the Economic Council of Canada. Copies are easily
June 5, 1969

available to any member of the house and to the public.
As to tabling the merger register of the combines branch, I think that of equal value to hon. members, to economic analysts and to the academic community, is the analysis published yesterday by the Economic Council which contains the significant figures taken from the merger register.


Mr. Speaker, I have a further supplementary question for the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. In view of the statements made by the director of the combines investigation branch regarding the recent pattern of mergers and take-overs, does the branch also have information on the number of firms which are left to be taken over?


Mr. Speaker, I have a related question for the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Can the minister tell the house what success he is having in his consultation with the provinces with respect to national securities legislation. Perhaps the minister can also tell the house which of the provinces are objecting to the minister's proposed legislation.


I wonder whether the hon. member would not be inclined to agree with me that the question he is asking now requires a statement which should normally be made on motions.


Mr. Speaker, in the light of your observation, would the minister give consideration to making a statement on motions before the house adjourns for the summer recess, to clear up some of the ambiguities that exist in this matter with respect to the provinces.


There are no
ambiguities whatsoever. We are proceeding with the discussions with the provinces, which involve a high level of good feeling and co-operation. I expect in due course to be able to announce government policy on this.
29180-618J
Inquiries of the Ministry [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the President of the Privy Council.
In view of the heavy workload to be carried out by the clerk of the house and his assistants, does the government intend to appoint an assistant clerk who would help them out? If so, when does it propose to do so?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, the matter is under consideration and we hope it will be possible to name somebody in the near future.


I have a question for the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Would the minister, at the earliest possible moment, make a statement to the house on motions outlining what steps the government proposes to take to ensure that those who handle goods on which tariffs are reduced by the budget brought down on Tuesday night will pass on the benefits of these reduced tariffs in their entirety to the consumers of this country in the form of lower prices, and so make it possible to ensure that the end in view of helping to control inflation and the rising cost of living may be realized?


Mr. Speaker, since the policy of accelerating tariff reductions under GATT was agreed upon I have been holding discussions with my officials to establish the proper kind of machinery within the department to ensure that, where savings by reason of these reductions can be passed on, they will in fact be passed on to the consumers of Canada. I hope to have something more to say in a definitive way on this shortly.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has the Canadian government agreed to continue for a

June 5, 1969
Inquiries of the Ministry further six months the maintenance of the Canadian contingent in the United Nations force in Cyprus?


Mr. Speaker, I am not certain whether that decision has yet been made, but certainly it is the intention of the Canadian government to agree to such a proposal.


That is quite a sentence, if you analyse it.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is the size of the Canadian contingent to remain the same, or will there be any reduction or increase in it?


It is our hope that there will be a reduction.


My
question is directed to the Minister of Public Works, Mr. Speaker. I believe this is the day upon which it is anticipated an answer will be given in connection with federal aid to the City of Trail in respect of flood damage. Is the minister now in a position to make known the results of the cabinet's consideration of this important matter?


I am pleased to tell the house that the Government of Canada has decided to make a contribution of $200,000 to the Trail disaster fund. We are earmarking it for the private sector, whether business premises or private homes. I think the house will be interested in knowing that total private losses have now been assessed as $1,150,000, and our contribution will make possible a distribution in that area of $931,000, which I think is a generous underwriting.


May I ask a further supplementary question with regard to the situation at Trail in order that the record may be clear. Can the minister tell us what the other $731,000 expenditure by the federal government in the Trail area entailed?


I was referring earlier to the total amount to be distributed to the private sector. The $731,000 is the contribution made by the Province of British Columbia and the private subscription which was contributed, and which reached a sum, I believe, of $100,000 or $120,000.
[Mr. Harkness.I


Could the minister advise the house whether the federal government will also be sharing in the cost of preventing flood damage-and by this I do not mean what may be done under the Canada waters legislation; I refer, for example, to the cost of sandbagging and all the other costs incurred by the town of Lumsden in Saskatchewan. Has the hon. gentleman received requests for assistance in this regard and will the government be sharing these costs?
Hon. Arihur Laing (Minister of Public
Works): Mr. Speaker, the Government of Canada has a long record of making contributions in this regard, in the Manitoba area, in the Fraser Valley and in other areas under the Canada Water Act legislation, as well as by special agreement with the provinces. The hon. member makes particular reference to Saskatchewan. Action with regard to the situation there has been delayed only because as yet no full assessment of the loss incurred has been available.


On May 28, Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Calgary South asked whether the United States government had requested permission of the Canadian Government for a congressional sub-committee to hold public meetings in Calgary on June 19 on the subject of paving the Alaska highway.
The Canadian Government has been informed by the United States authorities that a sub-committee of the United States House of Representatives wished to make arrangements for an informal exchange of views on the subject of paving the Alaska highway with interested businessmen and local officials in Calgary, Alberta, on June 19, 1969. The informal discussions proposed are not intended to constitute a public hearing.


I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs, Mr. Speaker. Has the Government of Canada made strong representations to the
June 5, 1969



Soviet Union protesting the flights of Soviet aircraft over commercial air lanes near the Province of Newfoundland, bearing in mind the great risk to life and property caused by these military manoeuvres on or over routes used for international flights?


The Canadian government did make representations to the government of the Soviet Union to that effect.


May I ask
the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether Canada or her allies engage in air manoeuvres which may take planes fairly close to the boundaries of some other country, particularly the Soviet Union?


I doubt very much whether they would fly in such a way as to interfere with international civil aviation, which is the problem here.


Do
these flights of Soviet aircraft near the coast of Newfoundland bear any relation to the proposed visit of the Premier of Newfoundland to the communist People's Republic of China?


Oh, oh.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs whether he has received any response from the government of the Soviet Union as a result of his protest and if he has received any response, what the response was.


Mr. Speaker, as I recall the exchange, when we drew the attention of the Soviet government to the possibility that these flights might interfere with the safety of international civilian aviation, I think the response was that the planes were flying over international waters.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Prime Minister. Yesterday the Prime Minister expressed his belief in the cabinet system of government and stated, as reported at page 9730 of Hansard:
-I for one have great confidence in my ministers.
Inquiries of the Ministry
I would ask the Prime Minister whether he was expressing that confidence when he said to a Winnipeg audience: "Big deal! James Richardson-I believe you should have somebody better"?


Mr. Speaker, I never said anything of that kind.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, if that be the case I suggest to the Prime Minister that he take up a question of privilege with the Globe and Mail.


Order, please.


According to the press release sent to us by the Prime Minister's office, the Prime Minister told the delegates of the Canadian Federation of Mayors and Municipalities, and I quote:
We know the programs and activities of the federal government have an increasing effect on the development of our cities-
Could the Prime Minister tell us whether the government of Canada could grant the municipalities loans of $500,000, as the one he has just made to Algeria this very day?


I think the question asked by the hon. member could easily be put on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries. In the light of the minister's announcement of the formation of a salt fish advisory committee, will the minister, following his meeting with this committee in St. John's on June 12, make a statement in the house in regard to his department's policy on the salt fish industry?


I will certainly give the matter consideration, Mr. Speaker, but any such announcement would have to be after our first meeting with the committee on June 12.

June 5, 1969
Inquiries of the Ministry


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the minister whether, after the meeting on June 12, he would give consideration to broadening the representation on the committee to include areas such as the Labrador fishery, which is presently omitted?


Mr. Speaker, my understanding is that the Labrador fishery is adequately represented but I will take into account as well any suggestions that my hon. friend has.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Public Works whether, in view of the policy of the government, announced by the Minister of Finance the other evening, to try to discourage construction of office buildings in some 22 Canadian cities for the next two years, the Department of Public Works is considering postponement of any of its own building programs in those cities?


Mr. Speaker, there has been a considerable cut-back in federal government building in recent years, as my hon. friend knows. We will pursue a policy of good business. At the present time we are paying a very large sum of money for rentals, amounting I think in Ottawa alone to $18 million. We have the situation under review at the present time. If we can build buildings and bring about a situation where the rates quoted us are more competitive, then I suggest to my hon. friend we would be practising good economy, and this is what we intend to do.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I am not being argumentative; I just want to understand the minister. Is he suggesting that there is one rule of good sense for the government and a different rule of good sense for business-


Order.


-and that the same reasons that might influence the government to go ahead with its plans would not prevail in the private sector?


Order, please. The hon. member says he does not wish to be argumentative, but his supplementary question sounded that way.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Public Works. Is it the intention of the government to proceed with construction of the C.B.C. building in Montreal? It is to cost $66 million.


The hon. member for
Broadview.


Answer.


Order please. The hon. member has asked his question but the minister does not answer.


The minister, sir, wishes to reply. I might inform the hon. member that that building is not being built by the Department of Public Works. It is being built by the C.B.C.


Oh, oh.


That's hairsplitting.


May I direct a supplementary question to the Secretary of State, Mr. Speaker. Will he advise us if the C.B.C. is to proceed with its new building in Montreal?


According to the last reports, Mr. Speaker, the C.B.C. has not indicated that it intends to suspend the work in progress.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. Since, as evidenced by the minister's recent statement about National Capital Commission plans, Ottawa and Hull are being considered together for purposes of planning and construction, will the minister say whether certain aspects of the government's new anti-inflationary policy will be reconsidered, since that policy now places Ottawa at a distinct disadvantage vis-a-vis Hull in this respect?
June 5, 1969


Mr. Speaker, I do not think Ottawa is under any disadvantage with respect to what is to be done in Hull. I think there is a strong imbalance between the two cities. We are going to develop Ottawa as much as we can at the same time as we develop Hull.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Justice. Since most provinces of Canada have passed legislation making provision for compensation to victims of criminal violence, and since the minister has undertaken to discuss this matter with attorneys-general in August, will he consider drafting a model bill to cover the Yukon and Northwest Territories so that the bill can form the basis of discussion with regard to this problem in those areas?


Well, Mr. Speaker, I would consider that, but I am not too sure that it does not already lie within the power of the Commissioner of the Northwest Territories do to so under ordinance.


Mr. Speaker, my question arises from an answer given earlier by the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. His answer was to the effect that any reductions in the prices of commodities which enter Canada as a result of our adoption now of certain Kennedy round tariff reductions will be passed on to the consumer. In other words, the consumer will benefit. Will he tell the house how so novel and unusual a plan can actually be carried into effect? What authority has the federal government to so direct? Will he tell us whether the provinces have been consulted in this connection? Are they willing to co-operate in order to ensure that the consumer shall benefit?


Mr. Speaker, the purpose of the action announced on Tuesday, by my colleague the Minister of Finance is to
Inquiries of the Ministry increase competitive pressures among a certain range of goods in Canada. As I said previously, I will be making a more definitive statement shortly. We want to be sure that these competitive forces are in fact at work. The situation it seems to me is not much different from that which prevailed when the former Minister of Finance removed the sales tax from pharmaceutical drugs. We set up machinery to be sure that any decrease in sales tax at the manufacturing level would be passed on.


May I ask the minister, Mr. Speaker, if the government intends to bring in legislation saying that where any company importing goods into Canada does not pass on price reductions consequent on the removal of the tariff, action will be taken against such person or company?


Well, Mr. Speaker, I will be saying more on this subject later. Whether legislation is to be introduced at some future time will depend on actions in the private sector.


The government has not such power.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Public Works. Has there been any cancellation or postponement of any Public Works projects outside the Ottawa area, but included in the original estimates tabled for 1969-70? If so, would the minister be prepared to tell us what these are?


Mr. Speaker, the entire field of projects for the department is under review at the present time and I would not be prepared today to indicate where we will stop or start.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can hon. members of the house take it, then, that the government in fact has given consideration to the cancellation or postponement of some Public Works projects?


Order please. The question as asked is argumentative.

June 5, 1969
Inquiries of the Ministry HOUSING


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister without Portfolio responsible for housing. Is he in a position to answer the question I asked in the house yesterday concerning the announced land assembly and public housing project in St. John's, Newfoundland.


Mr. Speaker, in December, 1967, the government of Canada entered into an agreement with the Newfoundland and Labrador Housing Corporation which provided for 75 per cent federal participation in the land assembly or acquisition of approximately 850 acres of land in the Mount Pearl area of greater St. John's. The estimated cost of the land is $1,275,000. There has been some discussion between officials of C.M.H.C. and those of the provincial housing agency with regard to a further cost-sharing arrangement for the development of the first part of these lands.
With regard to the larger project the hon. member referred to yesterday, no formal application has been received by us yet.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister inform us of the present status of certain urban renewal schemes which are being considered. In particular I am thinking of the Mundy Pond urban renewal scheme in St. John's West.


Order please. I wonder
whether it is in order for hon. members to ask about individual urban renewal schemes. I have some doubts about this.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. In asking my question I am considering another question asked a few minutes ago with regard to the expenditure of moneys on public buildings. Since I think we all welcome the announcement that there are to be large expenditures for buildings in the National Capital area and since there is a need for economy, as evidenced by the budget speech, will the minister do what he can to expedite the formation of a parliamentary committee on National

Capital matters so that it may concern itself with these matters?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Has his attention been drawn to a statement made by the President of Loblaw Groceterias asking consumers to boycott beef, since the price of steaks and roasts has increased by 40 per cent in the last four weeks?


Order please. The hon. member asks whether the minister's attention has been directed to a statement. I think the question as asked is out of order.


Mr. Speaker, may I rephrase the question. What is the Minister's department doing about the substantial increase in the price of beef in the last four weeks?


Order please. I think this type of question ought normally to be considered at the time of adjournment.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker. This matter is of urgency to all consumers across the country. There has been a 40 per cent increase recently in beef prices.


Order please. That is why I think the hon. member will welcome the opportunity to consider this matter at length at the time of adjournment.


Ten o'clock, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday of this week I directed a question to the Postmaster General and Minister of Communications. I wish to direct the same question to him today. I asked him whether he had received a communication from the Canada News Agency concerning long delays in the cable office in Toronto. He replied that he had not received such communication. I now ask the Postmaster General whether he has checked his office to see if he has received such communication. If so, what action does he intend to take?
June 5, 1969


It still has not come to my attention, Mr. Speaker.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the Postmaster General undertake to see why his mail delivery is so slow, since I received a copy five days ago?


I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Due to the fact two ministers are here today when they should not be, does this mean that the Prime Minister is weakening on his roster system? May I say, Mr. Speaker,
I apologize for reporting upon these two ministers because they are very popular with the opposition.


I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister and ask whether he has observed lately the shocking and even disgusting condition of pollution of the Ottawa River. If so, does he not agree the time has arrived for the federal government to initiate a comprehensive and practical national policy of anti-pollution between the provinces and the federal government to try to do something regarding this matter which is talked about, but about which nothing is done?


Mr. Speaker, last Monday, the hon. member for Hillsborough raised a question concerning expropriations in Prince Edward Island. I am pleased to inform the house today that we have been in touch with the Attorney General and that we have come to an agreement on that problem.


REDUCTIONS IN GRANTS TO BAND COUNCILS Mr. Thomas S. Barnett (Comox-Alberni): I
would like to address a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and Indian Development. I ask the minister whether he
Inquiries of the Ministry is aware that actions within his department which initially encouraged band councils to assume the management of their own affairs are being seriously jeopardized by later actions to cut the amount of the grants which have been established as the rate under which the program would begin.
Mr. Speaker, I will take the hon. member's question as notice.


I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. Can the minister indicate to the house whether the government's policy statement on agriculture expected within the next 90 days will deal solely with long term measures, or will it also report the government's policy with respect to emergency steps to be taken as recommended to this house by the agriculture committee?


Mr. Speaker, I have no knowledge of any statement having been made by the government respecting the preamble to that question, therefore there can be no reply.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the house expect a statement from the minister before the summer recess with respect to measures to assist agriculture in the emergency situation which it is now facing?


Mr. Speaker, as has been stated over and over, the house can expect an answer with respect to these and other matters to be given in this house in the usual course.


I wish to ask the Prime Minister a question relating to questions I asked him earlier in the question period. In view of the Prime Minister's difficulty in understanding the logic of the concern of the secretaries of defence for Great Britain and the United States, will the Prime Minister consult with the Minister of National Defence of this government to make certain that the concern,

June 5, 1969
Business of the House
and the logic of the concern of the two secretaries of defence which I mentioned, is fully understood and appreciated by the Government of Canada as a whole?


My
question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In a sense it is supplementary to the question asked by the hon. member for Prince Edward-Hastings (Mr. Hees), as it deals with national water standards. On October 16 the minister stated that an advisory committee would be formed after consultation with the provinces. I also asked about this matter on February 25. Can the minister tell this house if to this date there has been any progress on this very important issue?


The consultation with the provinces is still the issue if we are to proceed toward a committee, along the lines of the original intent. There has been no positive progress either toward a date or the appointment of the committee.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask the government house leader if he has anything to add with regard to the business for tomorrow?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. There is some basis for hoping that Bill C-191 will be dealt with this afternoon. If this happens, we will then call the following items at the report stage, and then for third reading. First, item No. 63, Bill C-183 with respect to the Export Development Corporation; second, item No. 66, Bill S-29 with respect to oil and gas production and conservation; third, item No. 64, Bill C-184, respecting Telesat Canada. Following those items today, or if necessary tomorrow, we propose to call item No. 84, the motion for second reading of Bill C-202 with respect to area development incentives.
On Monday we propose to call the order for the continuation of the budget debate. Pursuant to the special order made earlier, we will remain on the budget motion until Thursday.

[DOT] (2:50 p.m.)


The house resumed, from Wednesday, June 4, consideration in committee of Bill C-191, to amend the Income Tax Act.
When the sitting was adjourned yesterday, clause 27 of the bill was under consideration.
On clause 27-Social development tax.


Mr. Chairman, yesterday I was in the process of making a few remarks with regard to the government's social development tax. I had suggested to the committee that the minister should consider removing it from the bill.
I believe most Canadians will agree that the social development tax is one of the most regressive forms of legislation we have seen this year. As I have already stated, it established a ceiling of $120 on the tax. People with incomes of $6,000 will pay just as much under this new tax as those with incomes of $40,000, $50,000 or $500,000 a year. It is difficult to justify this type of taxation in our present society. When such a tax is implemented by the government, it makes people ask what kind of priorities the government has in mind or what it recognizes as being most important. It makes one wonder whether the government is giving top priority to the people, regardless of their social or economic background.
Last night I stated that this tax reminds me of a Robin Hood in reverse theory because most of the money is collected from the lower and middle income groups, while Members of Parliament, for example, with salaries of more than $18,000 a year do not have to pay any greater amount. The implementation of the social development tax emphasizes the real need in Canada for over-all and immediate tax reform in all its aspects. The hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway mentioned a number of items that should be included in tax reform.
I ask the Minister of Finance to consider seriously taking the Carter commission report out of the wastepaper basket and looking at some of the more progressive proposals that it advocates. The government talks about inflation. How will we curb it? Will we do it by imposing a social development tax on those in the low and middle income groups who will
June 5, 1969

be hit the hardest? I do not know how it can be called a social development tax when it hits hardest those people who need opportunities to develop. Many of them live in economically depressed areas of our country. They need assistance in the field of culture, in achieving higher academic standards and so on. So once again I appeal to the Minister of Finance to consider seriously what he is doing before bringing in a tax of this sort. I appeal again to the minister to move away from the kind of philosophy the government has displayed in seeking to impose this tax.


Mr. Chairman, following the June 1968 election, the well timed arrival in the house of the present Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) had given rise to great hopes in many Canadians.
Following the adoption of new rules of procedure, together with the establishment of a more flexible procedure within the cabinet and a roster system designed to give ministers more free time, it was felt that deep changes were in the offing and that economic problems would at last be looked into for the benefit of the whole population. Unfortunately, an analysis of most bills which were amended and passed shows that it was only a dream.
The government has indeed dealt with some economic and financial problems. Regional disparities were pointed out and a series of bills designed to remedy those disparities were introduced and adopted. Nevertheless, for workers anxious to build their own home, for veterans who are looking for work or want to start a business, so as to end their constant shifting about, for fishermen and farmers, all the measures dealing with the working class, far from helping those people, have tied them down and made them increasingly dependent upon financial interests.
And the highlight of this session is, I think, Bill C-191 now under consideration, since it affects the taxpayers who had not been affected by the bills already mentioned. In fact, clause 27 stipulates:
Every individual liable by virtue of subsection (1) of section 2 to pay a tax under Part I for a taxation year shall pay a social development tax for the year equal to the lesser of
(a)	2% of his taxable income for the year as determined for the purpose of Part I, or
(b)	$120.
Mr. Speaker, the government levies a social development tax. As the fishermen's income
Income Tax Act
is too low to be subject to tax, Bill C-151 throttles them with the interest rates charged on the loans they raise in order to finance their operations.
In the case of farmers, who seldom pay direct taxes owing to their exorbitant operation costs, the situation is almost the same. As a result of Bills C-110, C-lll and C-112, which allow the government to juggle with interests rates every three months, the farmers, during the next years, will obviously pay their fair share to the financiers.
Government experts had a brilliant idea: to tax development. One can remember that the idea of a social development tax had been put forward with a view to balancing the budget and was supposed to be a temporary measure only.
This temporary tax is unfortunately in the process of becoming a permanent one, just like all the others, with this difference, however, that it is still more unjust.
Many hidden taxes have become public owing to the force of circumstances, such as the sales tax, the excise tax, and import duties. All such taxes are paid by purchasers. To some degree, we have become used to such taxes.
There are also direct taxes on workers' pay. That was the fairest form of taxation, as it was determined by income. I am not thinking of the fabulous amounts that some people may fail to mention, but I am thinking of the worker who receives only part of this pay after all levels of government and various organizations have taken a share of it.
Now, under clause 27 of Bill C-191-Part IB, Social development tax-this tax is limited to $120.
Mr. Chairman, I would say that this clause smells of blackmail and haggling even.
"Social development", those are two words used to designate a 2 per cent tax that cancels out on salaries exceeding $6,000 a year. Considering that $100 more or less is of little importance to the man who earns $10,000 or more a year, and that it is a social development tax, why put a ceiling of $120 on it, Mr. Chairman?
I believe that the economist, the lawyer and those who earn $20,000 or more a year, have made more progress than the man who earns only $3,000 a year.
When the government collects $120, from the man who earns $12,000 a year and collects the same amount of $120 from the man who

June 5, 1969
Income Tax Act
earns only $6,000 a year, it has one law for the rich and one law for the poor.
Mr. Chairman, can anything be more ridiculous than to collect $100 from a man with a family who earns only $5,000 and who already lacks purchasing power? With what obscure intention can one enjoy imposing such an unjust tax?
In view of the fact that the Canada Economic Council has established that a family whose income is less than $5,000 is living in poverty and that 75% of Quebec families earn less than $4,000 a year, why persist in collecting money from workers who already lack the basic necessities?
When we know that the personal debts, the finance loans of Canadians reach $3,500 per home, without considering mortgages, why overtax these people? Why tax low income groups who are not even solvent and with whom the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation refuses to deal?
This is rather strange, Mr. Speaker. Under the pretext that his income is insufficient, the person earning less than $6,000 a year will be turned down by Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation when he asks for a loan with a view to building a house. But this very same citizen remains solvent in the eyes of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Benson) as regards paying taxes.
There are tax increases, sales taxes, an 11 per cent tax on building materials, and when the government has taken right and left and has multiplied taxes of all sorts, the Minister of Finance makes statements like the one appearing in Hansard for June 3. The minister would have us believe too often that he does not know exactly why prices have risen.
Mr. Chairman, the Minister of Finance does not seem to know that two and two are four. If he cannot add, he surely has a talent for acting.
It is quite easy to ignore that taxes are added to the price of goods, but this Minister of Finance had plenty of nerve to disclose his plan of attack which consists in uniting all possible forces, public and private, to fight more aggressively than ever against inflation.
Mr. Chairman, is it possible to ask nearly 75 per cent of the families of the province of Quebec, who receive less than $4,000 a year, to the businessmen who go bankrupt, to farmers who sell by auction, to industrialists who go out of business, to the many who receive social assistance, to go on a crusade against inflation? Is it also possible to ask

those people to do something and fight in order to stop price increases?
Mr. Chairman, I think it is time for us to show some logic, and we have not won the war with taxes, but with capital.
The problem today is not one of inflation, since we are in the midst of abundance, and we are facing a lack of purchasing power. To legalize the collection of additional taxes would simply lead to a widening of the gap.
The extent of the tax increases and their consequences will have to be considered.
This government does much planning ahead about regional disparities. All those fine projects will prove unavoidably useless if some citizens are protected by taxes limited to $120, as provided for in the bill before us.
I know that government action is essential for the well-being and the survival of the people. However, because the Minister of Finance is trying, under clause 27 of the bill under consideration, to protect the ones most capable of paying, namely those earning $6,000 and over, I shall vote against this bill.
[DOT] (3:00 p.m.)


Mr. Chairman, I think this clause of the bill really makes a mockery of the concept of a just society. It makes a mockery of the words of the Prime Minister who, when he went across Canada from one coast to the other, raised people's expectations as to what might be done in Canada, what we can do together and what might be accomplished in our nation. If this measure simply resulted in disillusionment with that hon. gentleman, that would be one thing, but it seems to me it has a serious effect on the country as a whole in that it results in disillusionment regarding the expectations which were raised last year as a result of the particular type of approach used, with success, by the Prime Minister during the last federal election campaign.
We now have the Minister of Finance sitting calmly in the house, or at least he was a moment ago, like some form of Buddha or sphinx

I have not made up my mind which-and blandly placing this measure before us as one step toward the just society in Canada. I find it very difficult to see how he can possibly justify such a regressive form of taxation. This regressive tax will in fact bear most heavily on those people in the lower income tax brackets. They are the ones who will have to bear the burden of this tax. It will fall most heavily on wage earners and
June 5, 1969

people on, salaries, as well as others with a low level of self-employed income.
I should like to mention the situation which exists in respect of wage and salary earners. They are the people who are now discriminated against under our present income tax structure. They are the ones in particular who will now have to bear the burden of this new tax which the government has decided to impose to raise revenue.
We must ask ourselves this question: Is this tax based on the principle of ability to pay? I defy the minister to show me that this is in fact a progressive tax based on ability to pay. It seems to be ironical that we are discussing this measure now, a couple of days after the minister presented his new 1969 budget. The minister made public his social development tax proposal last October 22. That was when it was unveiled in this house. But it is only now, more than seven months later, that the government has brought this legislation forward for the consideration of the house. The government was unable to get this measure through the house before the new budget was presented.
It seems to me that if things are going as well as the Minister of Finance indicated in his budget the other night, he might very well consider withdrawing this tax measure and introducing some other more progressive measure to raise what he considers to be necessary revenues. We are not going to achieve any sort of a fair or equitable society by heaping injustice upon injustice. That is what is happening at the present time.
This new tax seems to further distort our tax system, which is badly in need of reform. This fact has been acknowledged and the subject has been throughly studied by the Carter Commission. We all know of the many inequities which exist under the present system.
The minister has indicated from time to time that he is going to introduce a white paper. The latest indication is that it will be introduced during the parliamentary recess. It seems to me it is not many weeks ago that the minister indicated the white paper would be introduced in June. A little later we heard that it would be made public during July. The minister is now saying it will be presented during the parliamentary recess, which means any time during July, August or September. I predict that we will see further delays in the presentation of this white paper. Certainly this will be the case if the present pattern continues.
Income Tax Act
When we are dealing with this particular proposal we must also consider the fact that we now have one tax which is related to the basic structure of the proposal now before us-the old age security tax. Some of the figures are different but the principles of that tax structure are similar to the tax measure now before us for consideration. We must consider some of the inequities of the tax system in our economy, and the fact that there is no provision for taxation on capital gains. There are all sorts of loopholes for the benefit of those people who now have high incomes. Many of these people escape taxation altogether.
I suggest that we need a complete reversal of practice in respect of our taxation policy. I also suggest that the evidence indicates that in practice such a reversal will not be forthcoming under the present government. We need a general change in both fiscal and economic planning which should be based on equity.
Let me draw to the attention of the minister the situation which faces many people in my own constituency of Regina East. Many of them are living on modest wages and salaries in the city of Regina, and many of them are having a very difficult time coping with the present economic situation. This measure, together with the measures proposed by the minister in his speech the other night, will do nothing to relieve the problems of these people. Similarly, this proposal and the proposals of the minister in his budget speech on Tuesday night will do nothing to relieve the serious problems facing the farmers in my constituency. It will do nothing to help the people living in the villages, towns and rural areas of my constituency.
It is certainly true that we are faced with the problem of inflation. I think the government has shown its unwillingness to tackle adequately the problem of inflation, and its unwillingness to correct the inflation which exists at the present time. We are not going to reverse some of the trends toward inequity in our economy by the tinkering the government is doing at the present time. In order to solve this problem we require a radical change in our approach to economic and social policy. I urge the minister to take such steps before it is too late to save the Canadian economy from a disastrous situation.


Shall clause 27 carry?


Carried.

June 5, 1969
Income Tax Act


No.
The Depuly Chairman: Those in favour of clause 27 please rise. Those who are opposed to clause 27 please rise.
Clause agreed to: Yes, 50; nays, 19.


I declare the clause carried.
[DOT] (3:10 p.m.)
On clause 28-Investment income tax.


Mr. Chairman, there is an amendment to clause 28. The main purpose of the amendment is to bring the bill into line with the resolution. The amendment is in the first line of the sheets which hon. members have. We used the words "term life insurance" in the bill and "group term life insurance" in the resolution, and we are bringing the two into line.


I move:
That Bill C-191 be further amended
(a)	by striking out line 10 on page 48 and substituting the following:
"(C) group term life insurance policies,"
(b)	by striking out lines 24 to 28 on page 49 and substituting the following:
"(b) the amounts required by subsection (4) of section 68a to be included in computing the insurer's income for the year, other than amounts deducted under paragraph (a) of subsection (3) of that section in computing its income for the immediately preceding taxation year;"
(c)	by striking out lines 6 to 9 on page 50 and substituting the following:
(b) int