Third report of Standing Committee on Veterans Affairs, in English and in French- Mr. Legault (Nipissing).
Second report of Standing Committee on Procedure and Organization-Mr. Blair.
[Editor's Note: For reports of Committees above referred to, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
Mr. Speaker, I wish to table copies in English and in French of the report of the second meeting of the Constitutional Conference held in Ottawa in February last.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, in connection with the Air Canada strike which continues to cause increasing inconvenience to Canadians, whether the government proposes to take any steps to encourage a settlement of this strike, and whether there have been any developments today or yesterday which encourage the government to believe that the parties can be brought together to continue the discussions.


Mr. Speaker, there are no developments or steps beyond those which were reported to the house yesterday by the Minister of Labour.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Are we to assume from the statements of the Minister of Labour yesterday that the government has abandoned the guideline which was laid down by the Prime Minister in the house prior to the strike taking place?


Order, please. I suggest to the Leader of the Opposition that the supplementary question is argumentative in nature.


Mr. Speaker, I am seeking confirmation or otherwise of an impression created by the Minister of Labour yesterday, and with respect I suggest that the Prime Minister might confirm or deny the impression that has been created.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member's understanding is exactly contrary to that which was said in the house. When asked a few weeks ago about guidelines, I said there were no guidelines, and I went on to add other things. The hon. member is implying that there are guidelines. Of course there are none.


I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Transport, if there is a Minister of Transport in the house. Due to the inconvenience and hardship caused by the Air Canada strike to certain people on the Atlantic side of this nation, would the minister check with his officials or with the officials of the Canadian Transport Commission to explore the possibility of the landing in Halifax of international carriers now taking off from Montreal. I have in mind in particular B.O.A.C., which flies from Montreal. At present people have to journey from Halifax and other parts of the Atlantic area to catch the plane in Montreal, and even so the service between Montreal and Halifax is not good.
April 29, 1969

Inquiries of the Ministry


I will be glad to have that suggestion brought to the attention of the Canadian Transport Commission.


should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. In the light of statements made recently by the minister, will he inform the house if it is the government's intention to institute a two price system for wheat and a program of compensation for acreage reduction on the prairies. Can he also inform the house of the government policy on these two matters.


In response to the hon. member's question as to the content of statements made recently, what I said, or what I intended to say, was that these proposals had been made to the government by the Canadian Federation of Agriculture and by other bodies.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister assure the house that it is not the intention of the government to say to the farmers of western Canada that it is abandoning any real effort to sell or dispose of stocks of western grain?


As has been indicated positively on a number of occasions, the government intends to do everything possible to be helpful.


have a supplementary question for the Minister of Agriculture. Does the government in this session intend to implement a two price system for wheat?


The government has received representations from provincial legislatures and a number of farm organizations. What I said last night was that these representations had been received.


If the
minister is not able to give the house any assurance about the two price system, is he able to say whether there will be a just price for farmers?


Whatever the government does will be just.


I suggest to the minister he should
IMr. Nowlan.l
go west and find out. He will then get an answer to that suggestion.


Order, please. Is the right hon. gentleman rising for the purpose of asking a question?


Mr. Speaker, it is gratuitous observations such as the minister has just made that result in the necessity of answers being given by the opposition.
What I wish to ask the minister is this: In view of the increasingly calamitous conditions in the prairies-the Minister of Finance bends his head in the negative, is he going to do anything about it-will the government provide emergency legislation to meet the serious situation, or will the minister have to set up himself as a task force to go out west to find out how serious the situation is?


As I indicated, we have
received representations-


Why don't you act?


-respecting the two price system, and I am sure my right hon. friend would want us to consider them very carefully. This examination ought to include the reasons why his government rejected this proposal on a number of occasions.


Hear, hear.


That statement is false. But my question is this-


Order, please.


The minister himself used to advocate the two price system; has he changed his mind?


Order, please.


I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Agriculture. In view of the fact that on television last night I heard him say, not that he had received these representations but that the government was giving serious consideration to a two price system for wheat and acreage reduction payments, can I ask the minister if this is being considered by the government as a matter of policy, and if the government is likely to carry out the commitment it made to the western farmers of a guaranteed price for wheat and a two price system for wheat?


What I said on television, disregarding the interpretations that were put on
April 29, 1969	COMMONS
what I said, was that responsible bodies such as the provincial legislatures of the three prairie provinces as well as the Canadian Federation of Agriculture, the Farmers Union and a number of other bodies had made these representations to the government. Certainly, if responsible bodies such as these make representations, this government takes them seriously.


I should like to ask the minister whether the government is now in a position to award an acreage payment to western farmers, something which the government headed by my right hon. friend from Prince Albert did.


That, also, is part of the representations which are under consideration.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
Since the minister has just said that whatever the government does will be just, does he not think that if the government waits too long before announcing its farm policy, the farmers will be led to believe that whatever the government does will be just for fun?


It seems to me the hon. member's question is rather argumentative and, therefore, is out of order.


I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. Could the Prime Minister have an appropriate member of his government contact the government of Australia and acquaint himself with the housing policies of that government which have made it possible for builders to sell first class three-bedroom suburban homes for $13,000 on a down payment of $1,200 and a mortgage at 5 per cent?


I do not think a question in this form is acceptable by the Chair.


With great deference, on a point of order: If I do not give the Prime Minister the background he will make an awful mess of the answer.
DEBATES	8099
Inquiries of the Ministry LABOUR CONDITIONS EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR STUDENTS


I have a question for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister any immediate and specific plan for providing summer employment for students who are now leaving our universities in great numbers?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Could the minister tell us what this plan is, and how soon it will come into effect?


Before the minister rises, may I point out that the hon. member is asking a question which is very general in nature, and that the type of statement he is inviting the minister to make would normally be made on motions.


Perhaps I could put it this way: Can the minister tell us how soon he will make a statement on motions providing us with this information?


No, Mr. Speaker.


should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. Has the Canadian government informed our NATO allies, or some of them, that Canada intends to withdraw all its forces from Europe except one battalion?


Not that I know of, Mr. Speaker.


Have the members of the military committee of NATO, who are responsible for military planning, been given information along that line?


I hope not, Mr. Speaker.


I have a question for the Minister of National Defence arising out of a statement made by the Canadian Teachers Federation. Can the minister inform the house whether he has refused to consult teachers, or the federation
Inquiries of the Ministry of teachers, before changing -a contract of employment for teachers under the Department of National Defence, and whether the contract has in fact been changed in the absence of such consultation?


First of all, the contract has not been changed. In the second place, I hope the hon. member understands that we are not employing these teachers; it is a tripartite contract between the school boards, the teachers and the Department of National Defence.


Mr. Speaker, I do understand, and that is the reason for my question. I should like to ask the minister whether there has been some change along the lines of making it possible for teachers to have a particular period of service extended, without discussion with them but after discussion with the school board concerned. In addition, have there been any changes relative to the provision of medical assistance and the like? If not, are these provisions in fact in the contracts?


Mr. Speaker, as far as medical services are concerned, the exercise of my ministerial discretion simply indicates that the minister is not responsible for medical services when they are available at the place the teachers serve. There has been no change in the contract regarding prolongation of the stay overseas. Our oversight might have been not to inform the teachers that, in the event of a prolongation required by national defence and the school board, obviously we would also consult the teachers.


A further supplementary question. Would the minister inform the house whether the teachers federation, or one of the teachers federations, sought an appointment with him to discuss the matter, and that the minister refused to meet them on the ground that it would serve no purpose? If that happened, or even if it did not happen, would the minister now assure the house that he would be ready to meet with the teachers federation to discuss the whole problem of teachers' contracts for overseas service?


Mr. Speaker, I have always received with pleasure representatives of the teachers federation. What I did refuse was a visit from Mr. Nason, who wrote me a letter and wanted to explain the letter to me.
I can read.

April 29, 1969


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Acting Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Has the National Energy Board requested the petroleum industry in western Canada to reduce voluntarily its exports of crude oil to the United States, and further has it indicated that if these reductions are not made voluntarily it will impose export quotas?


Mr. Speaker, I think the strict answer to the question has to be no. However, the National Energy Board has been in touch with various suppliers and buyers of Canadian oil in the light of the existing agreement between the United States and Canada. As I indicated in the house yesterday, no agreement other than that has been reached. Accordingly that agreement stands and we have certain obligations in relation to it.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In fulfilling these obligations, is the National Energy Board or the department indicating that they will impose export quotas?


Mr. Speaker, in discussing the whole situation between the United States and Canada in regard to oil exports, needless to say the question of alternative action in the absence of voluntary compliance is always1 an issue. It was indeed impliedly referred to in the agreement between the two countries.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder whether the minister would now make it clear that in his answer to the hon. member for Calgary South he was saying that what the National Energy Board has done is to implement government policy, which is to reduce the amount of exports to the United States and to introduce quotas.


Mr. Speaker, I believe my answer in fact dealt with that issue. The hon. member is carrying my answer to the question further, when he asks what in fact government policy is. It is government policy that, as long as an agreement exists between the United States and Canada, we are obligated to honour it.

April 29, 1969	COMMONS


further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In answer to a question that I asked either earlier this week or at the end of last week the minister said he would make a statement in reference to the new agreements that are now being made between Canada and the United States. Is the minister prepared to make this announcement either today or soon?


Mr. Speaker, I did not make any statement about making any statement and I will indeed not do so until there is something specific to say about any new agreement.


Mr. Speaker, that is the first honest answer we have had. The minister admits that he will make no statement.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the Acting Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources take the house into his confidence on the question of the establishment of a national oil policy for Canada under which western Canadian oil may gain access to markets in eastern Canada.


Mr. Speaker, the whole question of oil policy both in Canada and in the United States, and the question of the proper handling of oil in North America, is under review. As decisions are made in this regard statements of course will be made to the house. I could, indeed, make a statement at this time or at any time reviewing the tremendous progress that has been made in developing oil resources as a result of existing government policies in this field.


May I address a supplementary question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. As it is more than six weeks since he discussed oil policy with President Nixon and others interested in the subject, can he report on any progress which has been made that would indicate it will be possible for Canada to achieve in the near future a successful
DEBATES	8101
Inquiries of the Ministry national oil policy similar to that introduced by the former government in 1961.


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry. It relates to an announcement which he made in the latter part of February concerning a voluntary ban on the export of logs from British Columbia. Since the export of logs from Crofton and Chemainus on Vancouver island has increased sevenfold in March as compared with one year ago, is the minister now willing to consider imposing a ban and denying export licences for export of logs until domestic requirements have been met?


Mr. Speaker, the figures the hon. member has mentioned are news to me. I will check into the matter and let him know my answer.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister.
Since the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation has removed "Don Messer's Jubilee", the last program devoted to Canadian folklore, from its programming schedule, does the Prime Minister intend to suggest to the Secretary of State, responsible to the house for the C.B.C., to replace that program by another one on Canadian folklore, a tradition dear to millions of Canadians?


That could be a useful expedient for introducing television in the House of Commons, Mr. Speaker. There is quite a lot of folklore around here.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting
Inquiries of the Ministry Minister of Transport. I hope he has not been too busy with his new duties to provide an answer to my question of April 18 with respect to the future of Bill C-182 and the Maritime Freight Rates Act. I hope the minister can answer the question, in order to alleviate the fears of shippers in the maritimes.


Mr. Speaker, the government has introduced legislation in the form of Bill C-182 which has received first reading in the house, the purpose of which is to extend the freeze on rail freight rates until March 23,
1970.	Provisions are made in the bill to compensate the railways for extending the freeze on their rates.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the government house leader indicate when this bill is to come forward. There seemed to be a great rush a few days ago to bring it on.


Mr. Speaker, I could do that if I had some indication as to when we will finish with Bill C-150.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker. We gave an assurance in this house, which is indelibly recorded in Hansard, that we will pass this freight rates bill post haste, as soon as it is brought on. The government has held it up on three or four occasions.


FARM PRESS RATE INCREASES Mr. Heaih Macquarrie (Hillsborough): Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Postmaster General. I welcome him back from his western think-out. My question is based on information that the Canadian Federation of Agriculture has finally been granted an audience with members of the government. Can the minister advise if he or an acting minister gave any assurance that sympathetic consideration would be given to representations made on behalf of the farm press of this country which is now suffering from postal rate increases which are, in some instances, as high as 2,000 per cent.
Mr. Speaker, I did attend a meeting. I was accompanied by my colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, and we were able, at that time to discuss the problem quite fully. Since that time I have written a number of letters to individual papers suggesting 
April 29, 1969
they do come under a different classification. I understand they are quite happy.


Can the Postmaster General explain why the department has lifted the second class mailing privileges of the Canadian Legion magazine?


Because it represents the interests of a very important, but still a particular group.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister explain why his department, while lifting second class privileges from legitimate labour union publications, has granted such privileges to a whole string of communist and subversive publications, such as Canadian Tribune, Communist Viewpoint, Combat, American Exile in Canada?


The hon. member is asking a question-


Shame!


What about Playboy?


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that within the past few days the International Nickel Company of Canada and Imperial Oil Limited have announced plans for increasing the pensions of their retired employees, will the Prime Minister, as head of the government, expedite the cabinet's consideration of the question of increasing the pensions of retired public servants?


We are proceeding according to plan, Mr. Speaker.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact the President of the Treasury Board indicated on January 8 to an organization representing these people that there would be a report within a few weeks, can the Prime Minister say when there will be a statement as to the progress that has been made?

April 29. 1969	COMMONS


The plan is secret, Mr. Speaker.


Ten
o'clock, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Minister of Housing. Is the minister in a position today to answer a question I directed to him on Friday? I asked him if he would look into the matter of precedence in the making available of C.M.H.C. mortgage money for high rise apartment construction at Thompson, Manitoba?


No, Mr. Speaker. I do not have a specific answer to that question.


have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Can the minister advise if he received representations from the various federations of agriculture and other organizations in the Atlantic area stressing the need for the continuation of the present feed grain policy in that area? If so, what reply was given?


We have received such representations, Mr. Speaker.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister advise as to what reply he has made or what action he intends to take on this very important matter to the feeders and others in that area?


Mr. Speaker, we have indicated to them that this program, which has been in effect for a number of years, is under review, and that any adjustments which seem to be reasonable and positive will be part of that review.


A further supplementary, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister advise whether he endorses the apparent policy of the task force to the effect that these subsidies should be discontinued?


The views of the task force are completely independent of the government's views. I would like to advise my hon. friend
DEBATES	8103
Inquiries of the Ministry that, when we have completed the review of this and a number of other programs, government policy will be announced.


Mr. Jack McIntosh (Swift Current-Maple
Creek): I ask the Minister of Agriculture whether, in view of the serious situation in which western farmers find themselves, resulting from diminished revenues arising from reduced wheat sales, he will consider advancing farm credit repayments by one year as is done in the case of farm improvement loans, since these loans are always adequately secured?
I have announced on several occasions in this house that if an individual who has a loan from the Farm Credit Corporation would make application, along with substantial evidence that it is difficult or impossible to make the payments, they will be given consideration.


Could I ask the minister at this time what he will accept as evidence? Will he accept a low quota which is controlled by the Canadian Wheat Board as sufficient evidence that these payments cannot be met?


Mr. Speaker, the evidence is an indication of his receipts and expenses.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the fact the National Arts Centre Committee predicts a net operating deficit of between $400,000 and $500,000, depending on interpretation, for the two week opening festival of the arts, can the minister say whether Treasury Board has given approval to any such plans?


Order, please. I doubt whether the question is acceptable at this time. The hon. member might want to discuss this at the time of adjournment.


May I rephrase the question so that it will be in order? I ask the minister whether he will use his good offices and try to lower the operating deficit, and at the same time give Ottawa high society a treat by having Don Messer appear at the National Arts Centre?
8104	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry POST OFFICE DEPARTMENT


Mr. Question, I have a speaker for the-


Oh, oh.


You
are out of practice; you have been away too long!


I will try again. I have a question for the Postmaster General. I ask the minister when he intends to inaugurate in the city of Courtenay a letter carrier service, since that city has been qualified under the rules for a number of months?


I doubt if the question is in order, but in view of the very special circumstances perhaps the house will allow the minister to answer the question.


Miay I put it down for ten o'clock?


Possibly the minister would prefer to answer now.


Mr. Speaker, there is a freeze on introducing new letter carrier service. As soon as this is lifted, 1 think we will be able to give this service to Courtenay.


A supplementary, Mr. Speaker: Why this freeze?


Perhaps the supplementary might be considered at ten o'clock.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
In view of the deplorable and disturbed economic situation now prevailing in agriculture, would the minister inform the house if he expects new tendencies and an adequate policy so as to give practical assistance to the Quebec farmers and prevent a great many of them from going bankrupt?


The hon. member is now inviting the minister to make a general statement which should normally be made on motions.
[Mr. Schreyer.)
DEBATES	April 29, 1969


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister of Manpower and Immigration a question on an urgent matter. This is the time of year when many students of Canadian universities are at the stage of making career decisions. Is the minister satisfied in his capacity as Minister of Manpower and Immigration that a sufficient mechanism exists in the country so that our universities are aware of Canadian scholars available for employment in the universities?


Mr. Speaker, I am not exactly certain of what is meant by mechanism. We in the department, through our manpower centres and other devices, maintain fairly complete information respecting the university labour market. We do assist the universities in recruiting abroad by our retrieval program and I do not believe, unless the hon. gentleman has some specific obstacle in mind, that there is any difficulty in the flow of this information.


As a supplementary question, is there any machinery in the country specially for the purpose of making certain that Canadian universities are aware of the qualifications and availability of Canadian scholars, or is the minister simply relying on the normal machinery of his department in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, as the main network of service in the country, we have over 300 Canada Manpower Centres. We have over 3,000 counsellors who are informed as to the opportunities in Canadian universities, and we do maintain a close relationship with the Canadian Association of Universities on this and other matters.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask one further supplementary question. Last week the minister indicated that he was conducting some inquiries into difficulties that might be encountered by Canadian scholars seeking teaching employment in this country. Would he include in those inquiries the adequacy of the existing machinery in this country, so that Canadian scholars may have an adequate opportunity to have their services made known, and will his inquiries also include a determination as to whether the proportion of
April 29, 1969

Canadians teaching in our universities has fallen from roughly 75 per cent a few years ago to less than 50 per cent last year?


Order. The Leader of the Opposition has made a submission to the minister.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry. It is based upon his new statement of policy concerning the salt cod fish industry. In view of the fact that there is a great deal of doubt as to the efficacy or effectiveness of this new policy, would the minister tell the house when he proposes to set up the advisory committee which was announced in the policy statement?


Mr. Speaker, we are now in the process of setting up the advisory committee. It is a good scheme and I do not think we will have any difficulty getting it over to the fishermen.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister with respect to the program of dinners he is holding for his backbenchers. Is he going to extend an invitation to the hon. member for Trinity?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development My question relates to the proposal for self-government in the Territories, a subject that has been inquired about over some months now. Has his proposal yet received cabinet approval and when will he be making an announcement about it?


Mr. Speaker, these proposals have not yet been approved by the cabinet, but I hope that they will be very soon.
Inquiries of the Ministry AGRICULTURE


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister.
Is it a fact that the Quebec C.F.U. has
asked for a meeting with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion?
Would the Prime Minister also tell us whether the Minister of Agriculture will be invited to this meeting?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know exactly to what meeting the hon. member is referring. I have met representatives of some agricultural federations yesterday and I shall be seeing another delegation on Monday next. It may be that the C.F.U. will be a member of that delegation.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
In view of the fact that the Quebec Public Service Minister and the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion were to meet last Friday, could the minister tell the house whether or not such a meeting has taken place?
In addition, since I am interested in the development of this famed national park in the province of Quebec, could he tell us whether an agreement has been reached in this connection?


Mr. Speaker, there was a meeting last Friday between the Quebec Public Service Minister, the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion and myself, but we did not make much headway.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
Has he entered into an agreement with the province of Quebec about Forillon Park, in the Gaspe peninsula?


No, Mr. Speaker.
8106	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a supplementary question.
Has the minister received realistic counterproposals from the province of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, there have been counter-proposals but I am not in a position to talk about them at this time.


Mr. Speaker, while I am on my feet, I would like to answer the question which was put to me last Friday by the hon. member for Battle-ford-Kindersley (Mr. Thomson).
The answer is no.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Is the minister's proposed water act nearly ready for introduction to the house, and can we expect it this session?


Mr. Speaker, it is our intention to have the water act ready for introduction before the end of this session.


Mr. Speaker, I rise for the first time in my new position as a left-wing Conservative. In the absence of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce I have a question for the Minister without Portfolio from Sas-katoon-Humboldt. In view of the report of all-time high levels reached by shares of the Ford Motor Company on the Toronto Stock Exchange would he request the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce to make a statement to the house on the progress he is making with the Ford Motor Company in his attempt to achieve price parity-


Order, please.

DEBATES	April 29, 1969


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Minister of Transport. Would he give most urgent consideration to suspending the recent order of the Canadian Transport Commission withdrawing the port of Corner Brook from the coastal service of the Canadian National system, until such time as a full public hearing may be held to establish a true basis for decision?


Mr. Speaker, I will convey that representation to the Transport Commission.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport supplementary to an earlier question asked by the hon. member for Saint John-Lancaster, having to do with the freeze on rates in the Atlantic area. Do we understand from the minister's answer that there is also going to be a freeze on transportation policy in the Atlantic area, and when may we expect a statement of policy on that matter, now that the minister has received the opinions of the four premiers on Atlantic transportation problems?


The matter is being given very definite consideration, Mr. Speaker. We have still to hear the final report of the Standing Committee on Transportation but the matter is not being unduly delayed.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Government House Leader. As the government is not prepared to bring forward the legislation to deal with the Maritime Freight Rates Act would it give immediate consideration to bringing forward debate for concurrence in the fifth report of the Committee on Transport and Communications, so that we can get on with the committee's final recommendations, as mentioned by the Acting Minister of Transport?
April 29, 1969


Mr. Speaker, we are now
going into the 14th day of debate on Bill C-150 and I hope all hon. members will agree to reach an end to that debate as soon as possible so that we can get on with further business.


Would the Government House Leader give an assurance to the house that upon completion of the Criminal Code amendments bill the fifth report of the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications would be brought into the house for debate?


Mr. Speaker, at the current rate of progress on the Criminal Code bill I cannot give an assurance that we will ever get finished with it.


Mr. Speaker, while I am on my feet might I say that I have checked with the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation concerning the question asked me by the hon. member for Churchill. I cannot give him much more information than I could have had I been briefed before the question period, but C.M.H.C. advises that the application in Thompson to which he referred is under consideration but has not yet been approved.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. Has he received representations from yet another veterans organization, in this case the War Amputations of Canada, complaining about or protesting the length of time in getting the Woods Commission report before the Standing Committee on Veterans Affairs?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. This morning I received a brief and a covering letter from the War amputees, and I do agree with what the President of the War Amputations of Canada had to say in the covering letter, Padre Lambert, who is a very highly respected veteran. In his letter he said this:
We do not urge that the government should attempt to rush the preparation of the white paper.
Income Tax Act
The importance of this document justifies that sufficient time be taken to ensure its excellence.
I agree with that.


Did Padre Lambert not also state in that letter that the Woods report should be referred to the committee without waiting for the white paper?


Yes, he did. But we believe that it would be an advantage to the veterans associations to appear before the committee with the full knowledge of the government's policy as it will be expressed in the white paper, otherwise they will have to appear twice, once to confirm their support of the Woods report, about which we already know, and again to express their views on the white paper. We believe they should appear only once.


When will that be?


That a ways and means motion to amend the Income Tax Act, laid upon the table, Monday, April 28, 1969, be now concurred in.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the said motion?


On
division.
Motion to concur agreed to.
Mr. Benson thereupon moved for leave to introduce Bill C-191, to amend the Income Tax Act.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I might indicate for the benefit of hon. members that it will not be the government's intention to call this bill for debate before Monday, May 12, barring contingency in the meanwhile, to give hon. members of the house and various professionals the opportunity to examine this proposed legislation.


Another month will not mean much, as this has had six months already.

April 29, 1969
Criminal Code CRIMINAL CODE


The house resumed, from Monday, April 28, consideration of Bill C-150, to amend the Criminal Code, the Parole Act, the Penitentiary Act, the Prisons and Reformatories Act and to make certain consequential amendments to the Combines Investigation Act, the Customs Tariff and the National Defence Act, as reported (with amendments) from the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs, and motion No. 24, Mr. Woolliams (for Mr. Valade).
Mr. Speaker, last evening I was discussing the amendment before the house in reference to abortion and had almost concluded my remarks. I want to make one or two further references to this matter.
Before doing so let me say that as a result of the remarks made by the President of the Privy Council in respect of delay during this debate-and I only speak for this party-the minister would surely agree, were he here, that we gave full co-operation during the committee hearings. If anyone looks at the record he will note that the opposition members made very few remarks on this amendment. There was no delay so far as we were concerned. I made it my duty to explain this amendment as it appears on the order paper in the absence of the hon. member who put it on the notice paper.
In my opinion the amendment concerning abortion does not change the law very much. It was worded in the manner it was worded in order to catch two classes of people, those who are absolutely against any extension of the laws on abortion and those who think that abortion should be carried out in a wholesale manner. As far as I am concerned, the law as it is drafted in the new bill does not change the present law in Canada.
The bill proposes an amendment to Section 209, which I dealt with last evening, in that it adds the words "act of birth". This would mean that when a woman was in labour in the delivery room there would be no need for a doctor to go to a committee. If he could in all faith say it was necessary to cause a miscarriage for the purpose of preserving the life of the mother or the health of that mother it would be done without delay.
The second amendment the minister brought in was based on the opinion of the committee that if, in the act of birth, it was necessary to preserve the life or health of the

mother a doctor could perform the operation in an accredited hospital. I am at a loss to understand why the minister would suggest that Section 209 has nothing whatsoever to do with abortion. As found on page 333 of Crankshaw's Criminal Code, section 209 refers to the killing of an unborn child. This is the law as defined in Crankshaw or in any other book on criminal law dealing with this section. This is the law as referred to by Professor Mewett of the University of Toronto and other legal opinion. In other words, the killing of an unborn child would be caused by a miscarriage, and under that heading would mean an abortion.
It seems to me to be impossible for the minister or his officers to come to the conclusion that Section 209 has nothing to do with abortion. The killing of a foetus at any stage of development is really what is meant by abortion under the law today. This section has reference to the preservation of the life or health of the mother, and there really has been no change in that regard.
The hon. member for Peel South (Mr. Chappell) probably let the cat out of the bag in respect of the Liberal plan to satisfy everybody. I say the government is speaking out of both sides of its mouth in that it wants to get across to the nation that it is helping those who want whosesale abortion and those who do not want abortion extended. This is a policy adopted in order to get the votes of all these people by putting them in one basket.
I do not think anybody could have put this more clearly than that hon. member did in a letter he sent to a Mr. Edward O'Brien of 95 Roywood Drive, Don Mills. The letter is dated March 14, 1969. I will not read it all, but I think a part of it is of great interest. The hon. member said in the last paragraph:
Actually the laws of Canada now in respect to abortion and homosexuality are the most archaic in the western world. Although the expression "unborn child" is used by those who oppose the bill, this is not a life and no religion that I know of anywhere in the world recognizes or claims that the foetus has a soul. Rather than turning the clock back 1,000 years, the change will bring us forward from the laws of the middle ages.
I do not know what he means by that because it does not change the law very much. This letter really tells us what is going on in the Liberal caucus. That party embraces all religions and philosophies and it arrives at the same conclusion for everyone. The hon. member states in his letter:
As I said before, it was supported by all members of the Liberal party including Roman Catholics from every province with the exception of one.
April 29, 1969

I do not know who that exception is but that letter was signed by the hon. member for Peel South.
What I am really saying is that we should not for one moment believe that the new bill will change the law. The amendment in the bill really is a lot of window-dressing designed to satisfy that group of people who are against abortion while at the same time satisfying those who are in favour of abortion. As Professor Mewett says, this bill really does nothing for the girl who has been raped or for any individual whose case does not fall within the narrow interpretation of health or life.
I do not intend to say anything more on the amendment, but it does not change the law of Canada. It is just a vote-catching part of the bill. There are many other similar parts to which I could refer, but if I did so I would be ruled out of order so I will not go into them this afternoon.
[DOT] (3:00 p.m.)
I wish to re-emphasize the co-operation of hon. members during the committee hearings. We co-operated with the Minister of Justice and attempted to state our thoughts to the committee expeditiously. I suggest that the committee members worked in a non-partisan way. Since these amendments were introduced into the house members of the Conser-ative party have been brief and to the point, and we have co-operated with the minister. In spite of this, the President of the Privy Council has tried to leave the impression that our party has caused delay in the passing of this legislation. Let us have no more of this misrepresentation and fraud on the part of the President of the Privy Council when he talks about this debate or any other. He is always leaving that impression. In this way he creates bad will in the house. That is why he is not a good house leader.


Mr. Speaker, in speaking on this amendment in the abortion debate, I am sure that in the future this legislation will be referred to as the long talked of great step forward that resulted in a step backward. The Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) in his election promises stated that abortion would be legalized in line with 20th century thinking, and that our abortion laws would be modernized. What has happened? Nothing. There has been absolutely no progress in this respect. The new legislation is a step backward.
Criminal Code
Therapeutic abortion has been practised in Canada for many years. Therapeutic abortions have been condoned by the Bourne case of 1938 when Dr. Alex Bourne,, an English surgeon,, aborted a 14 year old girl who had been raped by soldiers.
The Criminal Code states that therapeutic abortion may be carried out when the life of the mother is at stake. This provision is open to wide interpretation. What is the rate of therapeutic abortion in Canada? A study of non-Catholic, Canadian hospitals shows that in 1967 there was an average of six abortions per 1,000 deliveries or live births. There is no wholesale abortion there.
How is an abortion carried out in Canadian hospitals? It is carried out by the patient's physician in conjunction with a consultant of his or the patient's choice. Now we are to set up a committee, none of whose members will know the patient or will be likely to interview her or her husband. This effectively removes from the patient and her physician the decision to abort.
If the abortion law has to specify indications for abortion, rather than leave the decision to a woman and her physician, as is done in regard to nearly all decisions to carry out a surgical operation, the indications should include all the physical diseases of the mother that would jeopardize her health or that of the baby should the pregnancy continue. It should include obstetrical indications if carrying the pregnancy to full term would be hazardous to either mother or baby. The law should include psychiatric indications where continuation of the pregnancy may result in psychotic episodes or suicidal thoughts.
The law should include provisions to cover the situation where because of an unwanted pregnancy there would be adverse effects on the emotional health of the mother, the existing child or children. It should include provisions to cover cases of rape or incest. A therapeutic abortion should be permitted if there is a reasonable possibility that the child, if born, would be physically and mentally incapacitated. Does the legislation do any of these things? The answer is no.
Another important factor is the safety of the abortion procedure. With a woman less than eight weeks pregnant, D. and C. carries little risk. Beyond eight weeks of pregnancy the chances of complication increase rapidly, especially after the tenth week, owing to the high risk of hemorrhage or perforation of the uterus. Legislation designed to keep down mortality must ensure that the period

April 29, 1969
Criminal Code
between application and abortion is the shortest possible.
The best way to increase the period is to insist upon mutiple consultations. The legislation will increase the danger and risk involved in the procedure more than has been the case in the past. It will increase the risk and danger to the patient. The committee will probably have a discouraging effect on both the patient and her physician. There is a higher mortality rate when there is an exasperating abortion committee system. Awkward abortion legislation tends to divert patients from orthodox health care systems to self-abortion or criminal abortionists. The morbidity of criminally induced abortions is substantial. Criminal abortions in the United States are estimated to be one million to one and a half million a year, with deaths running from 5,000 to 10,000. The figures for Canada are probably proportional to those of the United States because our laws are essentially the same.
Why is there a cloud over abortion, necessitating an abortion committee in addition to other hospital committees? Abortion is as old as history; it was practised in primitive cultures by the midwives and physicians of Rome and Greece. The definitive edict against abortion is only about 100 years old. Abortion was practised in England up until the early 1900's. It is restrictive legislation of this type that many countries are today attempting to revise.
Abortion should be taken out of the Criminal Code and placed in the hands of qualified medical practitioners. This legislation is not good legislation; it creates barriers of time in respect of patients who would benefit by abortion; it does nothing to define the conditions where an abortion is indicated. People living in sparsely populated areas of Canada will be denied the services of an abortion committee unless they travel great distances, involving time, expense and danger to health. This legislation discriminates against them.
The legislation before us is a great abortion hoax. It does nothing to bring our abortion laws in line with public desire or 20th century needs. It is a step backward into the 19th century; it is not a step forward in the 20th century. Any real change in our abortion laws has yet to come. The minister would be wise to remove from the bill the provision for a therapeutic abortion committee and substitute therefor the practice which has been adopted for many years, that of consultation

between the patient's own physician and a colleague.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to speak briefly to amendment No. 24. By the amendment the hon. member is attempting to insist that any means used to procure a therapeutic abortion be employed before the period of implantation. We must reject the amendment. I think the simple way of stating it is that implantation occurs about five days after intercourse. Therefore this amendment would in effect negative the whole aim of clause 18 relating to therapeutic abortions. The woman would not know she was pregnant, and even if that fact could be determined there would not be enough time for the therapeutic abortion committee to consider the case or for the doctor to perform the operation. Therefore I submit to the house that in strict medical terms, and in terms of the facts, it would be impossible to implement this amendment. That is the simple answer to it.
But since certain latitude was allowed the hon. member for Calgary North (Mr. Wool-liams) to reintroduce the argument he made before the committee as to the relationship between section 209 and section 237 of the Criminal Code, without repeating the legal arguments that I introduced on behalf of the government before the committee I want to state again that there is absolutely no relationship in fact between those two sections. With the greatest respect, Professor Mewett was in error when he suggested that if an abortion could not be legally performed under section 23