Third report of Standing Committee on Agriculture-Mr. Beer.
First report of Standing Committee on Procedure and Organization, in English and in French-Mr. Lambert (Edmonton West).
Eighth report of Standing Committee on Health, Welfare and Social Affairs-Mr. Emard.
Thirteenth report of Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs-Mr. Tolmie.
Third report of Standing Committee on Regional Development-Mr. Morison.
Fourth report of Standing Committee on Miscellaneous Estimates-Mr. Guay (St. Boniface).
[Editor's Note: For text of above reports, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
that the seventeenth report of the Standing
Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs, presented to the House on Monday, May 25, 1970, be concurred in.


Motion agreed to.
[DOT] (2:10 p.m.)
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. It is a very serious one which affects all hon. members and the administration of the committees of the House. I bring this matter to the House Leader's attention through you, Mr. Speaker. For example, this morning the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs was sitting at the same time as the Special Committee on the Constitution. Some hon. members are members of both committees, and it was impossible for them to attend both committee meetings because it is impossible for one to be in two places at the same time. We on this side of the House have heard criticisms from various sources that we are not the most effective opposition.


Hear, hear!


I am pleased to see that some hon. members who are suffering from similar difficulties with respect to committees approve of what I am saying. But there have been criticisms of that kind.
This government has always stood on words and phrases like "dialogue" and "viable force". How can one carry on a dialogue if one is supposed to be in two different places at the same time? How can we carry out our functions as Members of Parliament if the administration of the House is to be carried on in this fashion?
I draw your attention to something else, Mr. Speaker. The situation is even worse this afternoon. The Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections is to sit at the same time as the Committee of the Whole House will be considering a matter of concern to the members of the standing committee. The personnel of both committees is in part the same, and committees dealing with the same subject will

May 28, 1970
Committee Proceedings be sitting in two different places. No wonder the image of this place is such that the people of the country think it is a lit-up cemetery.


Oh, oh!


I am raising a serious point, and I hope Your Honour will bear with me because I will not be long. We cannot do our work and create an image of this institution as a viable force if we have to be in ten places at the same time. When the government was in opposition the standing committees were not entrusted with the function of dealing with legislation in the way they now do. They merely studied bills which then came back for further study in the House. I recall that when the right hon. member for Prince Albert (Mr. Diefenbaker) was Prime Minister the opposition of that day refused to allow the committees to sit while the House was sitting. What is goose for the gander-


Oh, oh!


What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. Perhaps the phrase I first used explains what has been happening to this institution. There should be some direction in our affairs and the House Leader ought to pay some attention to this aspect of our operations because right now the operations of this institution are a mess. We cannot perform our tasks.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker-


Here is the gander.


-I do not want to deal with the hon. member's misplaced goose. My impression of the hon. member is that even though he may be a member of two committees, if he speaks in one he can be heard in both.


Hear, hear!


It is precisely because of these problems that we have established a co-ordination committee under the chairmanship of my colleague, the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra (Mr. Deach-man) to co-ordinate committee work.


What are they doing?


I do not know whether the hon. member has brought this matter to the attention of the co-ordination

committee-I gather he has not-but the fact is that there will inevitably be conflicts in committee sittings and this can never be positively resolved in all cases. This is just one more argument for seeing that effective use is made by the official opposition of the co-ordination committee. I am sure that these representations will be taken into account.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. I hope we do not spend the afternoon on a point of order. I see quite a few hon. members who apparently want to take part in the discussion. I doubt very much whether we should get involved in a general discussion on the point of order, important though it is, raised by the hon. member for Calgary North. For the moment the Chair will recognize the hon. member for York South.


Mr. Speaker, without laying blame on anyone and without entering into the particular matter which was raised this afternoon, I wish to suggest to the House that there is a very real and serious problem with regard to committee meetings.
There is a large number of committees. They meet very frequently. There are many overlaps in the personnel of committees. Frequently a standing committee meets at the same time that the subject with which it is dealing is before the House. The members of the standing committee representing the various parties are obviously the people most concerned with the subject matter being debated on the floor of the House.
I wish to raise again for consideration by Your Honour, members of the House and the House Leaders of all parties something that members of my party have suggested on a number of occasions. We should organize our parliamentary work so that at least on one day a week the House would not sit and the committees would be busy.


Hear, hear!


In this way we could avoid this terrible timetable of rushing from one committee to another or from a committee to the House of Commons.
I have known committees to sit for an hour without a quorum. I have known them to start hearing evidence with only two or three members present. They have sometimes spent an hour or an hour and a half waiting for a
May 28, 1970

quorum in order that matters which had been discussed could be dealt with as motions of the committee. Then a quorum is reached at the last minute and members vote without having heard the discussion or in effect knowing what the matter is about. This is an inefficient and ineffective way of carrying on the business of this Parliament.
In saying that, it is not my purpose to lay the blame on the Government House Leader or on anyone else. I suggest that we ought to arrange the work of the House so that on at least one day a week the House will not sit, perhaps on occasion on two days a week. The committees could then do their work without the burden and the inefficiency which are now present.


Hear, hear!


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker, related to the point of order of the hon. member for Calgary North (Mr. Woolliams) with regard to committee operations. I wish to point out to Your Honour, the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Macdonald) and the House one serious problem with which the committees are faced. I do not blame anyone, but I hope a solution can be found to the problem.
The committees are sitting continuously. They have to make reports on their findings following their studies of given matters. However, the printing of the committee proceedings is running over a month behind. The last report we have of the Standing Committee on Agriculture covers the proceedings of a month ago today. The last report we have of the Standing Committee on Transportation covers proceedings of over a month ago. These committees are trying to draft reports based on the studies they have made. I understand that the situation with regard to the finance committee is just as bad. I suggest that the government should take notice of this problem. In light of the serious unemployment throughout the country, possibly some students could be hired so that the printing could be brought more up to date than at present.
Committees cannot deal with the legislation they have studied. They cannot present reports on the problems they are studying. I urge the government to take note of this problem and, if necessary, make use of job printing so that the job can be done. In this way the committees could present worthwhile, thorough and comprehensive reports on which the House could act.
Committee Proceedings [DOT] (2:20 p.m.)


Order, please. Hon. members will realize there is no formal motion before the House at the present time. There is a point of order, well taken I am sure, which has been raised by an hon. member and there has been comment on it by the President of the Privy Council. I am sure we could spend a whole day debating these points. The question is, of course, one which is very important, very material, but I am wondering whether hon. members, by agreement, might not decide that perhaps one of the supply days we have left between now and June 26 might be set aside for the consideration of this most important problem.


A government day.


Or a government day, as the hon. member for Edmonton West suggests. I doubt whether such an important matter should be discussed on the basis of a point of order. I think it might be better if due note were taken by the Chair and by all hon. members of the points made by those who have raised-to be more precise-the two points of order, one in the name of the hon. member for Calgary North and the other in the name of the hon. member for Crowfoot.
Perhaps the matter might be considered in consultation between representatives of the parties. However, the hon. member for Lotbiniere has not yet spoken-no one has spoken so far on behalf of his party-and for the moment the Chair will recognize the hon. member for Lotbiniere.


Mr. Speaker, your suggestion that representatives of all parties discuss the problem of committees is an interesting one. For our part, we approve of it heartily and wish to assure the House of our utmost co-operation.
I rose to indicate that we endorse fully the remarks of the hon. member for York South (Mr. Lewis) to the effect that committees should be given a chance to operate in a more efficient way. Mr. Speaker, we Creditistes are every day subjected to serious discrimination because of the way our committee system operates at the present time.
Due to the great number of government and Conservative members, these two parties have no difficulty in ensuring representation on the committees. Now since we are only 13

May 28, 1970
Committee Proceedings members-we will soon be 14-and as there are more committees than members our group, that means that each of us would have to sit on two or three committees, and that because of an obvious lack of co-ordination in the present committee system. Although each member of the Ralliement creditiste is eager to play an efficient role in committees, he cannot indeed sit on two or three committees at the same time.
Mr. Speaker, we want to request publicly that each hon. member be automatically entitled to appoint a replacement so that, in case of conflicting engagements, the replacement could sit on the committee and enjoy the same privileges and rights as the member he represents, that is, the right to speak and, above all, the right to vote. I consider that this suggestion is positive and important.
The New Democratic party and the Ralliement creditiste seem to suffer discrimination each day and the government, as it is always talking about participation, should take upon itself to accept this proposal.
We want to object to the present system and to invite the representatives of the different parties to positively and seriously study our suggestion at forthcoming meetings.


Obviously it will be judged from the contribution made by the hon. member for Lotbiniere that we are now getting into a discussion of a substantive nature on the question. A point of order has been raised. The objections made by hon. members have been noted.
Perhaps I should refer to the fact that some objection has been made by the hon. member for Crowfoot in connection with the printing of documents. This, of course, is a responsibility of the administration of the House. If there has been something lacking there, I am sure it is a matter which should be looked into by the Chair and by the officers at the table, and perhaps also in consultation with the Committee on Procedure and Organization.
This having been said, I respectfully suggest to hon. members that we leave the matter at that for the moment, because if we do embark on further discussion we will be having a general debate and, as I have said, I do not think this should be done without a substantive motion being before the House. I will take into due account the points made by hon. members, and perhaps we will have an opportunity very soon to hear representations

from other hon. members, who obviously feel as strongly as the two hon. members who raised these points feel. For the moment the Chair suggests to hon. members that we go on with the business of the House.


Mr. Speaker, while we are on motions I ask leave of the House to table the exchange of correspondence between the principal of Queen's University and myself, as requested by the hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby on May 26.


Is that agreed?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, there have been discussions between those responsible for the work of the justice committee, and I gather there is some hope that they might be able to continue their survey of the correctional institutions of Canada next week. On that basis it will be necessary to constitute them with an order of reference and also the power to travel. If there is general agreement, perhaps the following can, be made an order of the House:
That the annual report for the year ended 31st December 1968, made pursuant to Section 30 of the Penitentiary Act, contained in the third annual report of the Department of the Solicitor General, tabled in the House of Commons on 3rd November 1969, be referred to the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs; and that, during its study of the aforementioned report, the committee be empowered to adjourn from place to place in Canada.
As I say, if there is agreement, perhaps that could be made an order of the House.


Hon. members have heard the proposal by the President of the Privy Council. Is there agreement?


Agreed.


It is so ordered.
May 23, 1970


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the urgent need to have the present postal negotiations terminate without the dispute ending in a strike and the need to resolve the matter in a way that is satisfactory to both sides, would the government give consideration to placing responsibility for these negotiations under the Minister of Labour who has demonstrated that he, among the members of the cabinet, is best able to handle dealings with organized labour? I ask this question because of reports about the negotiations which indicate that particularly as a result of the uncomprising attitude of the Treasury Board the negotiations are leading to a stalemate and a national strike.
Hen. G. J. Mcllraiih (Acting Prime Minister): Mr. Speaker, responsibility for conducting negotiations with the staff of the federal government is fixed by statute.


Is it not true that in cases of national necessity changes can be made in government regulations? Since a strike would be a national calamity, could not the government bend a little, make a change in this regard and try as best it can to stop a strike taking place?


Mr. Speaker, I believe that the government does not have the right to overrule legislation.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a supplementary to the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the expression of opinion by postal workers that one of the major issues, if not the major issue, is the problem of job security and in view of the statement of the Postmaster General that there will be no lay-offs as a result of automation, would the President of the Treasury Board consider making a specific offer to the postal employees spelling out job security and placing that first in the negotiations?


Mr. Speaker, the Treasury Board staff have taken some pains to devise what 22375-52
Inquiries of the Ministry appears to be an adequate formula covering the problem of job security. This has been presented to the other side of the bargaining table. I do not think the presentation of this by myself would in any way enhance its virtues.


Mr. Speaker, would the President of the Treasury Board tell the House whether the offer is in accord with the statement made by the Postmaster General that there would be an increase in staff and therefore there would be no lay-offs?


I think the House would agree it is a little difficult to follow the suggestion of the hon. member and negotiate across the floor of the House.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister without Portfolio in charge of the Wheat Board regarding the statement by Premier Thatcher in which he indicated that his government will complete the current $3 million wheat barter deal with a Japanese firm for a power turbine. Are the minister and the Canadian Wheat Board giving full co-operation to the Saskatchewan government in the endeavour to complete this deal, and can he assure the House that the deal will be completed?


Mr. Speaker, I am not sure at what stage any contact between the Saskatchewan government and the Wheat Board may be in connection with this transaction. The Canadian Wheat Board, of course, takes every opportunity to sell wheat, particularly to the extremely good Japanese market. I would have to know whether there is any real prospect involved in the suggested deal and whether anything different would have to be done to move the maximum amount of wheat into that market.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that Premier Thatcher has said he will now drop several other barter deals, including one which is nearly ready for completion involv-

May 28, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry ing some three million bushels of wheat and other negotiated deals which altogether would involve 25 million bushels of wheat, may I ask whether the minister or the Canadian Wheat Board is in touch with Premier Thatcher to follow up these deals which he now proposes dropping in order to work out, if possible, a barter deal for the disposal of Canadian wheat?


Mr. Speaker, for some time we have made it very clear to Saskatchewan that the various deals referred to from time to time as barter deals in our view are not really barter at all and certainly do not in any way move any additional wheat. We have also made quite clear that in our view the only thing they do is constitute some threat to the stability of wheat prices. For that reason we have urged that they in fact withdraw from the practice of purported barter. I am very happy indeed that they have now done so.


Mr. Speaker, do I understand the minister correctly that he and the Wheat Board take the position that they will not negotiate any barter deals at all even though those barter deals are on the basis of a price for wheat in keeping with the International Grains Arrangement?


Mr. Speaker, I was not referring to any general policy concerning the basis on which the Wheat Board or the government might endeavour to move wheat. We are indeed endeavouring to move wheat on every possible reasonable basis. I was referring to some specific proposals which have been made which, as I said, in our view were not in any real sense barter at all, were not moving any additional wheat and only had the danger of threatening the price. We had previously taken the position with other exporters that barter was an undesirable method of competing for the sale of wheat because it in fact constituted price cutting and this, of course, could only lead to further price cutting on all sides with a weakening of prices which would have nothing but a bad effect on the income of farmers.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister without Portfolio. In view of the fact that it seems it might be possible that sufficient grains will not be moved to fulfil the quotas 
anticipated by the government, could the minister inform the House why these shipments were not started earlier? It was the view of one of the witnesses who appeared before the agricultural committee that their terminals could have handled much more grain much earlier than they were supplied with it.


Well, Mr. Speaker, the only delay which occurred essentially in the shipments out of Thunder Bay, to which I presume the hon. member is referring, took place mainly because of delays in the complete opening of navigation and availability of shipping, although it was necessary for the terminals stocks to drop down to more convenient working levels. I am happy to report that at the present time the carloadings for the Thunder Bay region and the unloadings there are beginning to hit the target figures, and I am hopeful that all the grain can in fact be moved there which it is necessary to move.


Mr. Speaker, I should like the minister to assist us by explaining to the House when barter is not barter. When there is a trade of Canadian wheat for machinery from Japan, that is not barter, according to the minister. Will he explain when in fact barter is barter?


Order, please. I wonder
whether the question is quite in order. As I understand the question, the right hon. gentleman is asking the minister to explain when barter is not barter. I have the impression that is perhaps an exercise in semantics. I wonder whether the question as asked is in order. I am sure the right hon. gentleman is very anxious to rephrase the question and the Chair is anxious to give him the opportunity to do so.


Mr. Speaker, I am always anxious to do that if I can get an intelligent answer. What explanation does the minister give for the proposition that when $25 million worth of wheat can be disposed of from Saskatchewan the farmers are to be denied the benefit because of government-I could use an expression-


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!
May 28. 1970


I never use a strong word when the word "stupidity" is sufficient.


As usual, Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentleness of the right hon. member for Prince Albert in his choice of language. It would probably be more appropriate for me to write out in long story form the history of the recent transactions which have been referred to as barter in a little economic treatise for the right hon. gentleman so he can better understand what is and what is not barter.
Som


Hear, hear!


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. I was about to suggest that the debate between the minister and the right hon. gentleman did not seem to be too conclusive one way or the other. I think that pretty soon we should move on to another subject. There are a number of other hon. members who are anxious to ask questions. Is the right hon. gentleman rising on a supplementary?


Yes, surely. When the minister was out west did any of the people state to him that he was about to write his autobiography because of the way in which he has treated the western farmers?


Oh, oh!


Order, please.


MONTREAI____INVESTIGATION OF MAIL SERVICE
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. Can he advise if it is the intention to initate an inquiry into or investigation of the handling of the disruption of mail delivery service in Montreal, and particularly the already announced expenditure of over $2 million in connection therewith and the purchase by the government of over 400 trucks of varying ages?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister without Portfolio in charge of housing. In view of the minister's admission that the government program for housing this year will have a 25,000 short-fall on the present arrangements, will the minister advise the House what other arrangements are envisaged by the government in order to get closer to the target, or does he anticipate that there will be a further short-fall?


This was not an admission that there would be a "downage" of 25,000. It was an estimation of the projection of the present rate of building and of the intentions of the approved lenders. I would hope that the actual performance would exceed those projections this year. I would also draw the hon. member's attention to the great emphasis we are placing on the real shortage in the housing field, which is in the low income sector, and on that score our performance in two years 1969 and 1970 will be equal to 75 per cent of the production in the previous 20 years.


Hear, hear!


Will the minister state whether or not there will be a short-fall of 25,000 houses for residential accommodation in this year's program?


Mr. Speaker, our stated objective was one million new homes over the five-year period 1970 through 1974, and I can assure the hon. member that the government will take all measures necessary to achieve that objective.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. Was the Minister of Justice enunciating government policy when, in his position paper to the Conference on Privacy and Freedom of Information at Queen's University, he stated that the government's need for privacy may well be a denial of the public's right to knowledge, which is fundamental

May 28, 1370
Inquiries of the Ministry to any participation in democracy? If this is now government policy, when was the change made?


Mr. Speaker, I assume the minister was stating a position on this subject that is well known to all hon. members, and it does not represent a change in government policy.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Justice. Will the minister convey his views in this regard persuasively enough to the Minister of National Health and Welfare to induce the latter to make public the interim report of the LeDain Commission on the use of drugs which, having been paid for by the public, should be made available to the public?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. In view of the glowing tributes which no doubt the government will be paying to our veterans at the forthcoming convention of the Royal Canadian Legion, is the government in a position to back up these tributes by announcing that legislation respecting veterans will be introduced in this session?


I am sure the hon. member will recognize that this question was asked yesterday. Again I cannot remember whether it was answered, but it seems to me the question was asked of the Acting Prime Minister yesterday. It may be that the hon. member is asking it because the minister is in the House today. If that is the case, perhaps the minister might reply.


That is correct.


Mr. Speaker, the government has already backed up its glowing tributes by allowing me a budget of close to half a billion dollars, the highest in 20 years.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, yesterday I asked the question in the absence of the minister and I now ask him whether, when he represents the

government at the national convention of the Royal Canadian Legion beginning next week, he will announce a fair and reasonable increase in disability pensions and war veterans allowances because veterans everywhere across Canada, despite the half billion dollars available to his department of which he boasts, are today in a very serious condition?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to assure the right hon. member that I do share his sympathy for the needs of the veterans. However, these matters of disability pensions and war veterans allowances are before the government now and are receiving consideration. When announcements are to be made they will be made in due course. However, I shall be very pleased to forward to the right hon. member a copy of my address to the Legion on Monday.


The question was simply this: are you going to act now instead of still procrastinating and postponing action?


Order, please.


wonder if the minister is now in a position to answer my original question as to whether any veterans legislation will be brought in by the government at this session of Parliament?


The hon. member is of course reiterating the question which has already been asked. He may feel that the answer was not an answer to the question he asked, but the question has been asked and an answer has been given, and the Chair has to recognize-


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, the minister has given answers to other parts of the question that has been posed, but he has not answered this question or given any indication of answering it. The question was asked yesterday when he was not here. It is asked now out of courtesy because he is here, and I believe we are entitled to an answer.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the minister. Would he induce the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Veterans Affairs, if the department has half a billion dollars to spend as a nest egg, to reconvene the committee because we have been delayed over a month now, and
May 28, 1970

war veterans allowances are so miniscule and minor that they could use some of this half billion dollars?


Mr. Speaker, the very competent chairman of the committee was away from this country on duty. He is now back and I am sure he will want to resume the writing of the committee report very quickly.


Does the minister plan to announce any special interim pension benefits at the Legion convention, to apply until the time the Woods Report legislation is ready?


Mr. Speaker, does the minister intend to bring in legislation for increases to these pensioners before the white paper is brought forward by the Minister of National Health and Welfare which he is now preparing on the matter of welfare payments generally?


Mr. Speaker, I do not believe it is necessary to bring down legislation to increase pensions or war veterans allowances, but it will be necessary to enact legislation to carry out the white paper proposals, and I presume this legislation will be before the House next fall.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State. In view of the actions of certain individuals last night inside the National Arts Centre, is the minister prepared to assure the House and all Canadians that individuals, organized or otherwise, will in future be prohibited from the distribution of international political propaganda within the confines of the National Arts Centre in such a manner as to imply the concurrence of the National Arts Centre management in their actions?


Mr. Speaker, that is already prohibited. The National Arts Centre advises me-I obtained the information in advance, because the hon.
Inquiries of the Ministry member gave me notice of his question-that any distribution of booklets or tracts is prohibited, without the manager's special authorization, at the entrance or in the foyer as well as on the grounds of the Centre. People are warned. Transgressors are evicted and the RCMP is called when they refuse to comply with the regulations.
The occurrence last night must have been of short duration because the manager was not even aware of it. No authorization had been granted.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry.
We have heard about a wave of protests on the Magdalen Islands about herring fishing. Government authorities are blamed for not having intervened in the matter of seine-equipped foreign boats. Could the minister indicate to the House what is his position in that matter?


Mr. Speaker, as soon as legislation currently before the House is passed we will be able to take appropriate action.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry and ask whether he has any statement to make on Canada's position on the catching of deepsea Atlantic salmon and whether he is satisfied with the counter proposals put forward by the Danish Fisheries Minister this morning and what Canada's stand will be at the forthcoming conference on high seas fishing to be held in St. John's, Newfoundland, next week?


Mr. Speaker, in the conversations we had with the Danish Minister of Fisheries this morning, Denmark put forward the proposal that Denmark itself should limit its own salmon catching capacity in the North Atlantic. While this is a welcome suggestion I

May 23, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry do not think it is sufficient in itself to cause us to depart from our stand of a total ban on Ashing for salmon on the high seas.


1
have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In the absence of such an agreement from Denmark for a total ban on the harvesting of Atlantic salmon, is the minister prepared to recommend to his cabinet colleagues that economic sanctions be imposed against Denmark?


Mr. Speaker, that is an interesting suggestion from a member of the opposition.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if the minister would accept an invitation, while we still have Atlantic salmon, to join me for one week's Ashing on the Gander this year. It is a beautiful place to spend a week's holidays.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister indicate whether Denmark is also prepared to limit its Atlantic salmon catch within its own territorial waters off Greenland as well as on the high seas?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, the limitation it proposed applies both to its own territorial waters off Greenland and to the high seas.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry.
Has he read the book of Mr. Carter, from the International Atlantic Salmon Foundation, on the problem of salmon Asheries in waters adjacent to Greenland, and does he intend to implement the recommendations of the author?


Some of these suggestions merit close attention, Mr. Speaker.


have a question for the Minister of Transport, [Mr. Davis.l
Mr. Speaker, but in his absence perhaps I could ask the Acting Prime Minister who is no doubt right up to date on the matter. Was any serious damage done in a reported collision between the icebreaker St. Laurent and the tanker Manhattan and, if so, is an investigation under way?


If the hon. member is referring to last week's incident, Mr. Speaker, the department has advised me that damages incurred were not extensive and that the collision was not likely to cause any pollution.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask the Parliamentary Secretary whether there was any underwater damage?


No, Mr. Speaker. As I have just said, the damage that occurred to the Manhattan has no relation to the possibility of pollution.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Secretary of State. In view of complaints by various groups and individuals across Canada that they are unable to have a complete tour of the National Arts Centre even when no functions are in progress, would the minister state whether he will conduct an investigation into the touring arrangements at the all-Canadian National Arts Centre so that all Canadians may have an opportunity to see the complete facility?


Mr. Speaker, similar complaints have already been reported to me and I personally referred them to the National Arts Centre. Additional costs are involved in this matter, but the Centre has assured me that, within its means, it is doing everything possible to satisfy all visitors.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address my question
May 28, 1970

to the Minister without Portfolio from Saskatchewan. In order to facilitate a greater turnaround of boxcars, is the Wheat Board actively promoting sales through the Port of Churchill over other ports, or will the block offer of January constitute the volume of grain to go through that port this year?


Mr. Speaker, I do not have anything to add to the recent exchanges in the House on this subject to the effect that probably the greatest amount of wheat that can go through Churchill has in fact been placed, in practical terms. The turnaround of boxcars, of course, is being facilitated in addition by the increase in the number of boxcars being made available for the movement.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the minister's statement that some 375 million bushels of wheat will still be sold this year, can he indicate to what extent Churchill will share in this increase in wheat sales over last year?


I do not have the exact figure at the moment, Mr. Speaker, but I do know from the Wheat Board that it is in the order of the figure for last year.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the Minister without Portfolio in charge of the Wheat Board. With regard to the question of grain movement and the study that he is proposing for the rationalization of the complete grain movement, will he also study some methods to be developed to promote the building of more boxcars? This seems to be a perennial problem so perhaps we need more of them in order to facilitate complete grain movement from the prairies to the shipping points.


Of course, Mr. Speaker, the study of transportation and handling includes all aspects of the transportation and handling system including the best ways of moving grain from one point to another. The question of boxcars being available at the present time if often one of their being available as against hauling other goods. At the moment there is nothing to indicate a shortage of boxcars for moving grain.
Inquiries of the Ministry ANNOUNCEMENT OF INCREASE IN BARLEY QUOTA FOR MANITOBA AND SASKATCHEWAN


I have a question for the Minister without Portfolio, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister indicate to the House whether an announcement will be made in the next day or two by the Canadian Wheat Board or by the minister or his office, in or out of the House, with respect to a substantive increase in the barley quota for the three prairie provinces?


Mr. Speaker, I believe such an announcement by the Wheat Board of an increase in the barley quota for the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan of ten additional bushels per seeded acre was made yesterday. This special quota, of course, indicates the very rapid movement of barley which will be required. The immediate part of this movement is required in most rapid fashion for Thunder Bay and therefore is being called forward from the eastern portion of the prairie region with the expectation that later good sales will allow a similar movement from the western portion.


A supplementary question. Could the Minister without Portfolio tell the House whether there is a termination date for this new barley quota or whether it will last for the balance of the crop year?


Mr. Speaker, this is a fairly large quota and it is called in a way which will allow the Wheat Board to terminate it if the barley which comes forward into the system is adequate for the need.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a supplementary question for clarification as the minister misunderstood my original question. I was not referring to delay in shipments out of Thunder Bay but delay in shipments to Thunder Bay in the early part of this year when the terminals could have been filled.


The problem, Mr. Speaker, is that without an adequate unloading and return of cars for reloading there is a slowdown of the movement generally. This did certainly take place in the earliest part of the season after the official opening of navigation. The number

May 28, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry of cars in the movement has increased very rapidly recently. For the last two days for which I have a record, on May 25 there were 1,199 cars loaded and on May 26 there were 1,359 cars loaded for Thunder Bay.


Order, please. Five or six members are rising for supplementaries on this very important question but 1 suggest we might pursue supplementaries tomorrow or later during the question period if there is time. There are a number of members who have been waiting for an opportunity to ask questions.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address my question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In view of the major lay-offs at the Dunlop and Canadian General Electric plants in Toronto and the report that less than 10 per cent of the men laid off were placed in alternative employment or retraining courses, would the minister make a statement on motions and set forth how many people were placed in alternative employment or retraining courses so that we may evaluate his manpower policies?


Mr. Speaker, I think I can clarify part of my hon. friend's concern by stating that at the earlier stages the workers at Dunlop, for example, were not prepared to take alternative employment or to take training-at least some of them-because of an expectation that the plant might be kept in operation. That possibility having been removed, it may now be easier to facilitate the entry of these workers into other jobs or training'.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Recently, the Federal Trade Commission in Washington has been reported to be undertaking anti-trust and anti-combines investigations of certain very large cereal companies which also operate in Canada. Is the Depart-

ment of Consumer and Corporate Affairs conducting any investigation into the affairs of any breakfast cereal companies in order to ascertain if excess profits are being made and if excess prices are being charged?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of any anti-trust action that is being taken in the United States. I am aware of a study that was conducted by the commission in the United States with regard to the relationship between concentration and levels of expenditure on the part of certain food, breakfast food, retailing and manufacturing companies. If that is what the hon. member's question refers to, may I say that we are studying the report to see of what use it may be in Canada.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Did I understand the minister to say that we are studying the report, or are we investigating the corporations?


All that was published in the United States, if that is what the hon. member's question refers to, was an economic study that raises some rather interesting questions and shows a rather interesting relationship between the levels of advertising and the degree of concentration in certain manufacturing industries and their dominance of the market. It is a rather interesting report which we are studying to see whether it is of use to us in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs a question about another product. The United States has banned the importation of Australian mutton. On its arrival at the docks it was found that 9.5 per cent of that mutton was not properly slaughtered and that percentage has, therefore, been rejected. Is the government of Canada aware of this and is it prepared to take similar action, because a great deal of Australian mutton is used in the processing of wieners and prepared foods in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I am confident that as a result of the work of inspectors under our health services, the Food and Drug Directorate and the Department of
May 28, 1970

Agriculture, mutton that enters Canada and is sold in Canada meets Canadian health requirements.


Perhaps the minister had better look at Canada's health requirements.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Postmaster General and Minister of Communications. In view of the problems of some sections of the communications industry, is the minister considering making grants to selected sections of Canada's electronics industry in order to help them keep abreast of current developments?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member ought to be more specific.


Perhaps that question could be placed on the Order Paper, with specifics.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion which arises out of a question asked yesterday. The minister referred yesterday to the fact that his department had made an offer to the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation in Manitoba. Does this proposal, applying to a possible plant in Selkirk, amount to more than $1 million and does it still stand?


Mr. Speaker, it still stands.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Justice. Does the action of the Federation of Quebec Egg Producers, a provincial marketing board, in controlling the entry of eggs into that province constitute a barrier to interprovincial trade? If so, has the minister
Inquiries of the Ministry consulted anyone to ascertain whether this action is contrary to Section 121 of the British North America Act?


About which the minister had so much to say this morning.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is asking for a legal opinion. I will certainly look into the matter.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Postmaster General. Would the minister say what steps, if any, have been taken to deal with the complaints of postal workers on a part of Vancouver Island that between $60 and $70 in back premiums for medicare was deducted from pay cheques in a lump sum instead of, as originally planned, spreading these deductions over several months? I suggest that this is an urgent matter in light of the feelings of the postal employees toward their employer.


Mr. Speaker, I will take that question as notice.


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary to the previous question I directed to the Minister without Portfolio regarding the barley quota announcement. I wonder if the minister could assure the House and producers in Alberta that the delivery points in Alberta will be granted similar quota provisions to those which have been granted delivery points in Manitoba and Saskatchewan, as recently announced by the Canadian Wheat Board? I wonder if this additional quota will be granted prior to the current crop year?


Surely that should be before the end of the crop year.


Mr. Speaker, as indicated earlier,
in the announcement, I understand that the Canadian Wheat Board made clear that the movement to the west would require additional barley for that area as well. Of course, the quota that has been opened is one, as has

May 28, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry been indicated in answer to the question of the hon. member for Assiniboia, which is terminable depending on the movement of barley into the system. This indicates that the important thing the Canadian Wheat Board has to bear in mind is to bring forward into the system and to the terminals the barley which is required immediately for marketing.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder if the minister would indicate what special provisions have been made to have boxcars spotted at many of these elevators that could possibly take in the barley but have no space at these points and have no boxcars available to them?


Mr. Speaker, as indicated earlier, the number of boxcars in the movement to Thunder Bay, which is the relevant movement for a large part of this question, has been increased rapidly until earlier this week I had indications that there were now 8,000 boxcars in the movement. Certainly the objective of the Wheat Board will be to use the block system in such a way as to spot the cars where the barley comes into the system because the barley is very badly needed.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the minister in charge of the Wheat Board without portfolio-he might as well be without a portfolio. Since he has stated that there is no shortage of boxcars and that barley is urgently needed, is he aware that over 50 per cent of the barley is produced in Alberta? Why has Alberta not been given some of the huge delivery quota that has been announced for Saskatchewan and Manitoba?


Order, please. The hon.
member seems to be going beyond the limitations of a question. Perhaps the matter might be pursued tomorrow. Perhaps the hon. member for Qu'Appelle-Moose Mountain might be allowed to ask a supplementary question even though the question period has expired.


Mr. Speaker, I have a related or supplementary question to direct to the minister with respect to the movement of grain. Is it a fact that a substantial sale of wheat has been made to Brazil and will an announcement be made within a short time regarding this sale?


In or out of the House?


Mr. Speaker, as hon. members know, announcements are made about sales from time to time as they are completed.


And from place to place.


I would say in answer to the asides from hon. members opposite that, as I have indicated earlier, it will by and large be my intention to make these announcements outside the House rather than in the House.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I might make the weekly announcement of the business of the House.


Agreed.


Tomorrow, the order of business will be as follows. The first item will be Government order 97, the amendment to the Canadian Labour (Standards) Code. The second item will be Government order No. 100, the amendment to the Aeronautics Act. The third item will be Government order No. 6, Bill C-4 with regard to the Canada Corporations Act. Monday will be an opposition allotted day. On Tuesday next, we shall be considering the Canada Water Act, to be followed on Wednesday and Thursday by the Arctic Waters Bill, Government order No. 87, and the Territorial Seas Bill, Government order No. 88.
It might also be of some assistance to the House if I indicated our intention of calling opposition days