Order. I have the honour to inform the House that a message has been received from the Senate informing this House that the Senate have passed Bill S-5, an Act respecting weights and measures, to which the concurrence of this House is desired.


First report of Standing Committee on Justice and Legal affairs-Mr. Tolmie.
[Editor's note: For text of above report, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
Mr. Speaker, there have been some discussions between representatives of the parties with respect to tomorrow's business. As I think most hon. members know, arrangements have now been made so that members of the House of Commons from all parties may attend the funeral of our former colleague from Cham-bly, which will take place in that community tomorrow afternoon. On that basis it would be necessary to depart from the House at 11.45 a.m. and we would not return until almost five o'clock tomorrow afternoon.
There have been a number of discussions with regard to the possible timetable for the House, but I think there is now agreement that rather than attempting to meet for any part of the day it would be more appropriate if we do not have a sitting tomorrow at all. On that basis an order in the following form would seem to be appropriate:
That when this House is adjourned this day, it shall stand adjourned until 2 p.m. Monday, November 23, 1970.
As I say, there have been discussions about an order in this form. If there is found to be general agreement, I wonder if unanimous consent to that order could be sought.


Yes.


Agreed.


Hon. members have heard the suggestion put forward by the Minister of National Defence. Is it so ordered?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to move a motion under Standing Order 43 to discuss a matter of urgent national importance-the report of the Dominion Bureau of Statistics yesterday that during the third quarter of this year, which has just ended, the country experienced the highest rate of unemployment it has had in any similar period since the latter days of the great depression of the 1930's; and particularly, the refusal of the government to introduce positive measures to stimulate the economy, and the refusal of ministers, particularly those with economic portfolios, to be present in the House when this important matter is being discussed to listen to the suggestions put forward by the elected representatives of the people for combating serious and rising unemployment.
[DOT] (2:10 p.m.)
I therefore move, under Standing Order 43, that this matter be brought before the Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs, where expert witnesses from the fields of industry and labour can be called to make positive suggestions to the government for dealing with this very serious situation, in the hope that these suggestions will be paid attention to and acted upon without delay.


Hon. members have heard the motion proposed by the hon. member for Prince Edward-Hastings. The motion requires the unanimous consent of the House under Standing Order 43. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity, so the motion cannot be put at this time.

November 19, 1970
Canada Corporations Act


for leave to introduce Bill C-196, to amend the Canada Corporations Act (Not Agents of Her Majesty).


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour of introducing this bill the purpose of which is to place Crown corporations on an equal footing with private enterprise. More precisely, this bill has the following objects: to submit public corporations to municipal taxation in the same way as private companies; in a case of bankruptcy, to provide payments to public corporations in the same way as to others, without privilege; to deny them any privileges in the matter of patents; to permit that a writ of mandamus be sought against a Crown corporation in the same way as if it were a private company; and finally to provide that criminal legislation apply to Crown corporations in the same way as it does to private companies.
Mr. Speaker, in other words this bill intends to subject government corporations to private corporation legislation and to take away from them the rights-


Order. I regret to interrupt the hon. member, but he knows that under Standing Order 68 explanation of a bill must be succinct. In any case, I consider that the hon. member has concluded.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
On the order: Introduction of Bills:
November 16, 1970-Mr. Howard (Skeena)-Bill Intituled "An Act respecting the Canadian Book Publishing Development Corporation".
The House may remember-


Could this stand, Mr. Speaker?


-that the Chair raised a matter of procedure in respect of this bill. In view of the fact that the hon. member is not here at the moment, perhaps the bill might be allowed to stand.


Stand.


Stand.


should like to direct a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, Mr. Speaker. In view of the several price increases in rather basic materials in recent days, which will tend to work their way through the economy, does the minister, on the basis of studies that I am sure he has been making, believe that these constitute part of a pattern and that we may expect further increases in the prices of these basic materials in accordance with this pattern, or does the minister feel that these are simply isolated instances?


I made it clear in the House yesterday, Mr. Speaker, that the Prices and Incomes Commission had already launched inquiries into the steel price increases and now into the fabricated aluminum price increases. We have no particular studies that would indicate that this constitutes a pattern. With the Leader of the Opposition, I hope it is not a pattern and, if it were, I would hope that the Prices and Incomes Commission and other policies of the government would make sure that it was not a pattern.


Am I to understand from the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs that he has no knowledge or that his department has no knowledge whether there are likely to be further increases announced in the prices of other, similar products? Am I to understand that the minister has not even conducted such a study?


Mr. Speaker, I am not sure just what other products the Leader of the Opposition is speaking about. Does he mean other steel price increases, or does he mean increases in the prices of things made of steel? If he were more specific in his question I could be more specific in my answer.


Mr. Speaker, by similar products I mean similar products of basic importance in the economy. In view of the increases that have taken place, would the minister not take the trouble at least to make some inquiries to find out whether they constitute a pattern and whether we may anticipate more of such increases, so that we can govern ourselves accordingly in our judgments?


Mr. Speaker, the Prices and Incomes Commission and other departments of government are observing these price movements, some up and some down, all the time. We have no specific study under way to determine whether this is a pattern or not or whether those particular price increases constitute a pattern. Copper prices have gone down in some instances, for example. The cost of living index on a year-to-year basis is at the lowest level it has been for a number of years.
November 19, 1970


Only because of lower food prices.


So we have that pattern being
established-


Order, please. I regret to interrupt the minister but it seems to me we are engaging in the field of debate.


Since not one inquiry by the Prices and Incomes Commission has led to a finding that price increases in the steel industry, of which there have been many, have not been more than they ought to be, would the government give serious consideration to the repeated suggestion of the steel workers' union that a public inquiry be organized to which all sides involved in the price increase dispute could make their submissions?


Mr. Speaker, the hypothesis of the question is not entirely correct. The last inquiry by the commission into steel price increases was conducted before the pricing criteria the industry is expected to operate under had been laid down. Whether any particular inquiry is held in public or not is a matter for the commission itself. It has the power under the Inquiries Act to hold public inquiries if the circumstances warrant it. I trust that the United Steel Workers Union will be as helpful and co-operative as it can possibly be in the enforcement of the policies of the commission and the enforcement of the pricing criteria that the steel companies are expected to live up to.


May I direct a further supplementary question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. In view of the evidence which has already appeared, particularly in the white goods industry, that any increase in steel prices is going to be reflected in higher prices of other commodities, would the minister ask the steel industry to withdraw its price increases until the Prices and Incomes Commission can report?


Mr. Speaker, I believe that question was answered yesterday by the Prime Minister.
# * *


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources may I direct my question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the February 13, 1970, statement by the Secretary of State for External Affairs that before any dam construction can begin which would result in the flooding of the Skagit Valley approval must first be granted by the Department of Energy, Mines and
Inquiries of the Ministry
Resources, may I ask whether any such application from Seattle Power and Light has been received by the government?


Mr. Speaker, this is the sort of question that should be directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources when he is in his seat.


Have there been any dam talks?


May I ask the Acting Prime Minister if the government has received any information from the legal officers of the Crown supporting the contention of the Secretary of State for External Affairs that first, such an application must be submitted to the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources?


I would like to take that question as notice, Mr. Speaker, since it involves a legal opinion.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The people of British Columbia would like the minister to assure the House that the government will take whatever steps are necessary to prevent the flooding of the Skagit River valley.


Mr. Speaker, the whole situation has been under most urgent consideration by the government.


A supplementary question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. This is a very vital problem in British Columbia. Is the government prepared to renegotiate with Washington the provisions in the 1942 agreement of the International Joint Commission relating to the Skagit River? If not, and if all other methods fail, will the government be prepared to introduce legislation to stop this flooding?


I have a question for the Secretary of State. Is the recent directive of the Quebec government that communications with Ottawa institutions and municipal governments be unilingual only in accord with the federal government's program to assist bilingualism in all provinces?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot say there is agreement or disagreement, since I am not fully informed of the decision the Quebec government has taken. I will just say that, as far as the

November 19, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry
policy of the federal government on bilingualism is concerned, I don't see how that decision can help its implementation.


My
question is directed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. It is in connection with a matter that is close to the hearts of all Canadians, namely, the terrible catastrophe in Pakistan. The extent of the catastrophe in this Commonwealth country seems to be mounting from day to day. By today's estimates there is the possibility that close to half a million people have died and 235,000 are homeless. Will the minister say whether the government is considering a substantial contribution? Fifty thousand dollars is merely a drop in the bucket compared with what is needed. Indeed much more assistance has been given to countries outside the Commonwealth. Is provision being made for a lead to be given by the government to enable private citizens to engage in a crusade for funds with credit being given to them in connection with their income tax returns?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, the right hon. gentleman has asked two questions. The first relates to the contribution that the government of Canada might make to the relief of the victims of these great tragedies in East Pakistan. The other relates to the larger question of the organization of a fund to which the public might contribute. We have now received a request from the government of Pakistan for substantial quantities of relief supplies. It has only just arrived. This matter is under consideration at the moment, and it may be that a decision will be reached some time today. I am quite confident it will involve a very substantial sum.
With regard to the second question, I hope that I or officials of my department will shortly have discussions with those who are considering the organization of a fund to which the public might contribute. I hope that some means can be found to facilitate it because I share with the right hon. gentleman the view that the people of Canada are deeply touched by this great tragedy whose dimensions seem to grow from hour to hour.


That is the answer I expected from the minister. The catastrophe seems to be as great as was the flood during the days of Noah. I should like to ask whether anything is being done to mobilize helicopters from across Canada to enable them to join the fleet which the United States is preparing, to the end that Canada shall make a substantial contribution to transportation in this connection, bearing in mind that helicopters

are the only means of transporting supplies to certain of the areas affected?


The gift which I hope the Canadian government will approve could be available for this purpose. The immediate request we have received, however, is for blankets, medicines and so on, and we feel we should give priority to the request of the Pakistani government itself.


On the basis of such a request would the minister tell us what will be the value of the contribution which Pakistan has suggested that Canada should make? I am not trying to pin it down within $10,000, but approximately what would be the value of the assistance requested?


The request is for supplies of various kinds. It is my hope that the donation will be in the millions of dollars.


In view of the fact
that students at the University of Ottawa have been gathering materials of the kind the minister has been describing, will the government give favourable consideration to providing some form of transport so that goods collected by citizens groups in Canada can reach East Pakistan in the quickest possible time?


Yes. This is a problem we have in connection with our own supplies and it will be looked at in the light of any voluntary contributions which are made.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. In view of the urgent appeal addressed to the government by the President of the Royal Canadian Legion on behalf of the veterans organizations of Canada for interim increases in disability pensions and war veterans allowances, will the government consider responding to this appeal at an early date?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, as I have said many times we are giving this matter our most sympathetic consideration and I hope that in the very near future I will be in a position to respond more specifically.


That has been the answer for a year.


Would the Minister of Veterans Affairs take up with the Government House Leader the possibility of arranging with the various groups in the House for action to be taken with a minimum of debate in order that there might be no delay in dealing with this matter?
November 19, 1970


I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Considering that Canada has been a contributor to UNRWA for a long time, can the minister advise whether his department has obtained a report on existing conditions in the refugee camps in Jordan? If so, can he indicate whether any new initiatives are in progress or in prospect to minimize the hardships in these camps and, hopefully, to make some assault on the solution of this too long existing refugee problem?


As the hon. member knows, Canada has been one of the largest contributors, proportionately, to the funds available to UNRWA. The latest reports we have received are to the effect that the organization is in very serious financial circumstances. We have not yet decided whether it would be appropriate for Canada to make another contribution, since our contribution is already, proportionately, very substantial, but we are very much aware of the problem and we are considering it at the moment.


My question is for the Minister of National Health and Welfare, Mr. Speaker. Further to questions posed to the minister yesterday with reference to the inclusion of optometrists in medicare on a cost-sharing basis, is the minister aware that in the September 21 issue of Key Man Bulletin, a publication of the Canadian Association of Optometrists, it is reported that the hon. member for Fraser Valley East was advised on September 14 by the minister's executive assistant that the subject of federal cost-sharing of optometric services was not only under consideration but that, in fact, it was under way. Would the minister care to elaborate on this statement by his assistant?


Order, please. The hon. member is asking the minister whether he is aware of a reply given by his Parliamentary Secretary. I would not think that a question in those terms is in order.


Then may I rephrase it, Mr. Speaker. May 1 ask the minister whether the statement made by his executive assistant is correct, and is he now ready to include optometric services, on a cost-sharing basis, in medicare?


Order. I would think that the second part of the question might be in order. The hon. member knows he cannot ask whether a statement is correct. If the minister wishes to reply directly to the second part of the question, that would be in order procedurally.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I have endeavoured to answer this question several times before, namely, that this matter will have to be discussed with the provinces. There are no plans to extend medical coverage, until all provinces are in and Quebec, the last province to come into the plan, only did so recently. The whole question of to what degree coverage will be extended and to which professions it will be extended will be discussed with the provinces over the course of the next several months.


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask a question of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.
Has he noticed that some companies, like Husky Oil, have just increased the price of their crude and refined oil by about 25.4 per cent, and does he contemplate asking the Prices and Incomes Commission to determine whether this increase is justified since oil products are in abundance in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I have only noted the press reports, which I take it are what the hon. member refers to. They have been brought to the attention of the Prices and Incomes Commission, but I have had no response from them at this moment.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a supplementary question to the minister.
In the light of the facts he has just agreed to, does he intend to order an inquiry or ask some of his officials to get in touch with the Prices and Incomes Commission on this subject?


Mr. Speaker, the oil companies, like other companies, are expected to adhere to the pricing criteria that have been agreed to and which are being enforced by the Prices and Incomes Commission. If the oil companies are not abiding by those criteria, of course the commission will be inquiring into the matter.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a supplementary question.
Considering the answer the minister has just given, would he check with the officials of the Prices and Incomes Commission in order to find out if these companies were consulted by the Commission before the increase was put into effect?

November 19, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the hon. Secretary of State.
Could he suggest to the CBC that photos of FLQ members now wanted by the police be flashed on the screen several times a day?

Mr. Speaker, if I may have your indulgence, I should like to ask a second question that is unrelated to the one asked of the Secretary of State.


Order, please. The Speaker is very indulgent but perhaps my indulgence can be shown by seeing the hon. member a second time later in the question period.


Mr. Speaker, I shall gladly suggest this to the CBC.
Since I already have the floor, I should like to answer briefly a question directed to me by the hon. member for Annapolis Valley-


Order. The hon. minister will appreciate that I have just reminded the hon. member that he should not in the same instance, direct two questions relating to different issues. In my opinion, the same rule applies to the hon. minister and as much as possible I intend to recognize the hon. minister presently.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister which he may wish to deal with as Secretary of State for External Affairs. Does the government intend to make a statement or to publish a white paper on its energy resources policy before discussing the matter with United States authorities?


Mr. Speaker, I would have thought that it would be very useful to have as wide an exchange of views as possible on this subject, including discussions with the United States secretaries, before the government does announce its policy.


Could I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether, in view of the varying statements being made by different ministers on this subject, it would not be possible to have at least a paper correlating to some extent the various statements of ministers?
there is some difference of view at the moment, and perhaps this will help to stimulate discussion. The government is very concerned that it should arrive at a decision that is in the interests of all the people and that all points of view should be considered. I think that some difference in view among ministers before the government has made up its mind is really quite useful.


A further supplementary question.


Order. The hon. member for Simcoe North.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. On January 28 and March 24, 1970 I asked the minister whether he had met with his provincial counterparts to discuss extending financial assistance to persons discharged from hospitals to nursing homes. Can the minister tell the House whether he did discuss this matter with his provincial counterparts, as he promised, at the last federal-provincial ministers conference or on another occasion? If so, will the government be announcing new policy regarding this question, and when?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member will be aware that since he asked the question there has not been a formal federal-provincial conference of ministers. One is anticipated within the near future-I am talking in terms of the next couple of months-and this question will undoubtedly be raised at that time.


May I ask the minister whether the government is going to present a positive and specific response to the Canadian Hospitals Association when they raise this matter with the government shortly?


As the hon. member may be aware, we are already sharing with the provinces the cost of nursing homes under the Canada Assistance Plan. Extending assistance in this area under hospitalization right across the board would, I think, be a very serious matter in terms of discussion with the provinces who are very concerned with rising health costs. Just how far they would be prepared to go along with us-and we would need their agreement to extend coverage in this area-is very questionable. As I say, this is a prime area of discussion; it has been raised on several occasions over the last year or two, and I expect will be again.


Mr. Speaker, I think it is probably a measure of the complexity and difficulty of the problem that


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and

November 19, 1970

Commerce. It arises out of the government's undertaking to consider the position of industries adversely affected by the change to a floating exchange rate last summer. I understand that the minister received representations from such industries. Could the minister indicate whether the government has taken action in response to such representations? If so, would the minister undertake to make a statement on motions at an early date outlining what action was taken?


Mr. Speaker, our position was to receive representations from each of these companies that could claim it had been hurt by revaluation and try to render assistance on a very practical basis. I do not know whether I could provide an analysis of the information that was given, because it has taken the form of services and advice of all kinds. I presume that there would be too many categories to try to report on that particular matter.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the minister whether any consideration was given to the adverse effects of the revalution on the grains industry which is already suffering from a combination of bad situations and conditions? Has any action been taken by the government in that regard?


Mr. Speaker, I seem to recall reading a copy of a letter sent to the hon. member on that subject in which it was explained to him by the acting minister or the minister in charge of the Wheat Board that the effects of revaluation had been compensated by the increases in prices.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce whether it would be correct to infer from his difficulty in making the statement requested by the hon. member that a substantial number of industries have found themselves in difficulties as a result of the change in the value of the Canadian dollar?


That is very well known, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. The Chair will recognize the hon. member for Regina East on a supplementary question. However, I must bring to the attention of hon. members that there are only a very few minutes left, and I suggest we should have no more supplementary questions.


I should like to make a correction first, if I may. The letter I received was from the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.


Order, please. The hon. member has the floor for the purpose of asking a supplementary question.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I was going to ask the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce whether he would give special consideration to the fact that in spite of the limited recovery in grain prices these prices are still depressed and that there was a particularly bad effect upon the grains industry, which should be taken into account by the government.
Inquiries of the Ministry POST OFFICE


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the minister responsible for the Post Office. In view of complaints from postal workers that sums approaching $165 in income tax have been deducted from retroactive pay amounting to $574 awarded to postal workers, will the minister undertake to determine if the amounts deducted at source are excessive?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. Was the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry revealing government policy when he indicated yesterday that Canada will try to use United States demands for Canadian resources to persuade Washington to make a greater effort in cleaning up pollution along the border, specifically in the Great Lakes area, and, if so, will an official statement be made soon in Parliament?


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the hon. member that we are using every possible means in trying to persuade the United States to clean up pollution.
[Lateril


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the attention of the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the strong statements made yesterday by the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry on pollution control, has the minister any report to make to the House on the measures that will be taken by Washington to help clean up the pollution of Lake Erie resulting from the use of detergents, or the pollution of the Saint John River as a result of the use of starch and fibres or, for that matter, the pollution of any other body of water on the border between Canada and the United States?


Mr. Speaker, I have no intention of making such a statement at the present time. As the hon. member knows, it was mainly as the result of the initiative taken by Canada and the International Joint Commission that we are now seriously engaged in dealing with these problems on both sides of the border. We are trying to attain co-ordination of effort, and to get the United States to play its full part in the measures we have been taking.

November 19, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence.
The Quebec Minister of Financial Institutions stated on November 17, in a speech to Loyola College students, that the government of Quebec would pay for the services of the armed forces only for the day preceding the implementation of the War Measures Act. May I ask the minister whether this statement is in accordance with the objectives of the current negotiations between the two governments?


Mr. Speaker, I have seen this report. I suggest that the hon. member is asking for an opinion of a legal nature, which is out of order.
May I say to the hon. member that the discussions on the matter have not yet been completed, and that we hope to get a favourable answer in the near future.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture. In an area in northeastern Alberta of approximately 1,000 square miles adverse weather conditions have prevented farmers from picking up hay and harvesting grain. I wonder whether the minister would be willing to give consideration to the establishment of low-interest loans to these farmers to enable them to buy, first of all, feed for their animals and, second, food for their families?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the hon. member knows we have cases similar to this in many localities in Canada almost every year. For a number of years the response of the federal government has been consistent, that after we introduced and paid for a very large portion of the crop insurance program requests for this kind of assistance should be directed to the provinces.


Let them eat white papers.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State.

Could he use his influence with the CBC so that the football semi-finals being played over the coming weekend might be televised over the French network in the province of Quebec? They are now being broadcast only in English.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the growing opposition to certain aspects of Bill C-190, would he and his colleagues agree to have the Whips taken off at the committee stage of the bill so there will in fact be no inhibitions on the part of all hon. members on both sides of the House in joining to defeat this most iniquitous legislation?


Order, please. The hon. member is attempting to resume a debate initiated yesterday during the question period.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. Has the government under consideration any amendment to the legislation which allows the establishment of special areas with a view to making federal financial assistance available in fast growth areas, with particular reference to what has been referred to as community infrastructure? I ask this question particularly in view of representations which have been made by the government of British Columbia.


Mr. Speaker, I do not think it would be
necessary to amend the act, since it allows us to designate special areas by order in council, when there are good reasons to do so and it is agreeable to the various levels of government.
# * *


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Has he had an opportunity of ascertaining from the White Motor Company whether it in fact intends to introduce price increases? Has the minister in his discussions with offi-
November 19, 1970

cials of this company been able to convince them that it they had not been so negligent in sending out parts, sometimes taking more than three weeks-


Order, please. The hon. member's question is more of a submission to the government and I would not think it is acceptable in that form.


Could I ask if the minister has been able to ascertain whether this company will in fact introduce its price increases before the price of steel is increased?


Mr. Speaker, I have not been able to ascertain that.
* * +


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State. Is the minister in a position to inform the House what action will be taken by the CRTC to provide the residents of northern Nova Scotia with television coverage that contains Nova Scotia news content, which is presently not available, or will he obtain this information and report to the House?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot answer the question straight off. I do not know whether the CRTC has taken decisions or made plans in that regard, but I would be happy to inquire and transmit the information to the hon. member.
[Later:l [English]


My question is in line with the question asked by the hon. member for Cumberland-Colchester North. When the secretary of State is checking with the Canadian Radio-Television Commission, will he ensure that cablevision applications for the Pictou County area, which is northern Nova Scotia, will be heard at the Maritime hearings of the commission which are slated for early in the new year.


Yes, Mr. Speaker.
* sfc sj:


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the minister of the Crown responsible for Information Canada.
Inquiries of the Ministry
Could he tell the House whether he intends to establish other Information Canada centres elsewhere in the country? If so, could he tell us which areas or cities will have priority?


In my opinion, this information could be given to the House in a statement on motions. If there is some urgency in that respect, the hon. member could notify the Chair so that the matter could be discussed at the time of adjournment.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question.


Order. Perhaps the hon. member could then also discuss the supplementary question at that time.


Ten o'clock, Mr. Speaker.


I have a question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce regarding the announcement this week that the Eaton automotive plant in London, Ontario, will be closed early next year throwing about 300 men out of work. I ask this question because the London plant is located on the edge of the constituency of Huron and many people from Huron are employed there. Will the minister look into this and see whether anything can be done?


I have already done that. Indeed, a decision has been taken by the United States parent company to transfer the heavy duty truck transmission operation to a U.S. subsidiary. This is bound to happen in a qualified free trade agreement, and when it is in our favour complaints are made by employees in the United States to their government. We expect transitional assistance benefits to be requested in the near future. I might complete my reply by saying that plants of the same company in Toronto, Scarborough, Wallaceburg, Woodstock, St. Catharines, Hamilton and Chatham are not affected by this decision.


I would like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare of which I believe he has notice. It has to do with solid waste disposal in Canada. In view of the fact that the public health engineering advisory committee made a strong recommendation to the Department of National Health and Welfare that a preliminary study of this serious problem be undertaken, can the minister advise whether such a study has been undertaken and, if

November 19, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry
so, would he be prepared to make a statement on motions as to the results of the study?


I do not think a statement is necessary, and I thank the hon. member for giving me notice of the question. The advisory committee on public health did set up a subcommittee under Dr. Jones of the University of Toronto. He went into the extent of the problem and the needed areas for further research. That brief is going to be approved by the health committee and then taken up with the science secretariat. It is still very much in the study stage within the department and within the government.


I have a question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Would the minister use his influence with General Motors and join with Premier Bourassa and the United Auto Workers Union in trying to persuade that company to agree to make French the language of work at its Ste. Therese plant so the strike may be settled as quickly as possible?
Hon. Jean-Luc Pepin (Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce): I would be very pleased to do so, Mr. Speaker, now that I have been requested to do so.


My question is for the
Minister of Public Works. Is it his intention to include in the next set of supplementary estimates amounts to provide for capital expenditures in the Atlantic provinces to alleviate unemployment during the upcoming winter months in view of the fact that this area of Canada seems to have been carefully omitted from the present estimates?


It
would be our hope and intention to include votes in the estimates for the Maritime provinces. Over a five-year period the Maritimes have done better than any other part of Canada.


That is not very good.


God help the rest of Canada.


It would be our intention, however, to build installations there that are conducive to continuing employment rather than merely to provide employment in the building thereof.


My question is directed to the minister in charge of housing and urban affairs. In view of the recent agreement between the city of Toronto and CMHC making loans available to home owners for rehabilitation purposes at low interest rates in areas not designated as urban renewal areas, would the minister consider making money available to urban renewal areas in a similar way so we could avoid the bulldozer approach to those areas?


There is a great deal of merit in the suggestion of the hon. member, and indeed it is the thrust of the experiment we are negotiating with the city of Toronto, and I hope to be able to extend that general idea into next year's operations with some funds behind it.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order to ask my usual Thursday question of the Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the Privy Council regarding business of the House for next week from Monday to Friday.


Today, of course, will see the conclusion of the debate on the opposition motion. Pursuant to the order made today the House will not sit tomorrow. On Monday it is the intention of the government to complete the temporary emergency measures bill, following which we will proceed with government order 36, the surtax on shirts. We will then proceed to the young offenders bill, Bill C-192, followed by the CNR finance bill and the omnibus bill, C-191, to renew several loans programs, followed by the statutory instruments bill, the Buffalo and Fort Erie Bridge bill, and the anti-dumping legislation.


The House resumed from Wednesday, November 18, consideration of the motion of Mr. Stanfield:
That this House condemns the government lor increasing the economic inequalities between different regions of Canada by its opposition to full employment policy and its refusal to use short term and long term programs in a timely and effective manner to prevent the resulting recession-level poverty and social injustice now widespread in Canada.

November 19, 1970
and the amendment thereto of Mr. Douglas, (Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands) (P. 1298).
Mr. Speaker, without question we are faced with the most difficult winter that we have had in years, both from the point of view of employment and the economy. The realization just now seems to have hit the government, probably too late. Despite the growing promises in the Speech from the Throne and in the hundreds of speeches that cabinet ministers have made all over the country, Parliament and the government are in neutral gear. We have done nothing but talk about the situation in Quebec, urged on by rumours originating from government sources.
Even if we had set all that aside, there is practically nothing on the Order Paper for us to consider that would do anything to meet the emergency situation. Just now we had an outline of the business to be dealt with within the next week, and it is a dismal effort as far as any measures to improve the economy or to relieve the employment situation are concerned. Just look at the 20 pieces of legislation on the order paper right now. There is hardly one job creator in the whole lot. There are bills concerning the labelling of products, statistics publication, cutting the powers of the Auditor General, amendments to the Customs Tariff, and so forth. Then, we should look at this week's accomplishments so far as this Parliament is concerned. Monday and Tuesday we spent on the public order temporary measures bill. Yesterday and today, we have the special debate to urge some action to relieve the unemployment situation. Tomorrow, we will not be sitting. That does not give any feeling of confidence to those who are watching this government and Parliament in our ability to meet an emergency situation.
In my opinion the time has come for us in the House to face up to the ridiculous and tragic situation to which we and our country have been brought. A couple of dozen revolutionaries in Montreal have made fools of the Canadian government and the Canadian people. They have panicked the government into declaring a state of war or insurrection. They have frightened the life out of everyone in Quebec. They have given the rest of Canada a national emotional binge. They have eluded the police for six weeks, although apparently they are still around the city of Montreal. They have caused Canada to lose its high standing internationally, and Quebec to lose millions of dollars economically. The government of Canada has played into their hands right down the line, and we look more foolish as the days go by.
[DOT] (3:00 p.m.)
We have spent six weeks of Parliament's time in discussing the War Measures Act and the temporary public order bill while the nation's economy is crashing down around us, the unemployed are walking the streets in increasing thousands, and pollution is continuing to choke us and ruin our heritage. Sitting in this House during the six weeks since the session began has been among my most saddening and frustrating experiences here.
Employment Programs
As we watch unemployment and misery in Canada mount, as the number of letters sent to members looking for help and jobs increases, and as the economy deteriorates the government has sat apparently helpless, and without policy or action. The Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) has concerned himself almost entirely with the political situation in Quebec. The rest of Canada must wait.
The Prime Minister has indicated no concern, in any remarks he has made in this House or outside it, about the human misery, or unemployment. They are only figures on a chart. I do not know when the people of the country are going to wake up to the fact that they are being distracted from their misery by a series of confrontations in the province of Quebec. Probably that will come when the Prime Minister's opponents in Quebec become tired of being the whipping boys every time he wants to bolster his image in the rest of Canada.
Within the past few days, the government has indicated that it will allot extra money for the creation of employment this winter. But it is well known that suddenly making money available will not create jobs. You cannot just go out and build a new factory, or create a demand for goods and services in a few weeks. It takes not weeks but months, and in some cases years. The demand for goods and services, for increased production and the reversing of lay-offs in industry, cannot be met unless money is available to the public to buy goods. The tight money policy of the past few months has left less money in people's pockets with which to buy goods and services. Certainly, Mr. Speaker, you do not increase your purchasing power from unemployment insurance or welfare cheques.
So far as inflation is concerned the government itself may be a strong contributing factor. Just today the Miscellaneous Estimates Committee was presented with supplementary estimates for the current year showing an increase of $457 million, almost an extra half billion dollars. Our total federal spending is now $13,355,000,000, but so far as we could learn this morning only $60 million is for job creation this winter, that is $60 million of that $457 million. The $17 million was for student employment last summer. This large increase in government spending can do nothing but increase the inflationary trend unless it is used substantially for job creation, and that certainly does not appear to be the case from the figures presented to that committee. The government is now forecasting a budgetary deficit of some $400 million this fiscal year instead of a surplus of $200 million. It is finally recognizing, to some degree at least, the desperate situation we face this winter.
The extra money being spent would be justified if it were shown that it was being used to create jobs, but this does not appear to be the case. So, the increase in expenditure of half a billion dollars is not to fight unemployment, as is often recommended, but is merely an increase in general spending by the government, an increase which the public will have to meet by way of taxes, which will reduce by that amount the money they have available for purchases.

November 19, 1970
Employment Programs
I would like to look for a few minutes at unemployment prospects for this winter. Unemployment affects the different regions of Canada differently yet, as obvious as that might be, government policy is not tempered by this reality. Apparently the government is obsessed with controlling inflation. However, that applies to everybody else except the government. So far as its expenditures are concerned inflation continues to rise.
British Columbia at present has a rate of unemployment which is higher than the national average. The rate there is predicted to peak this winter with over 13 per cent of its work force unemployed. The highly seasonal nature of employment in the forestry sector accounts for some of this unemployment, and recently the Economic Council has cited the heavy incidence of industrial strikes as another reason for the unemployment picture. Yet this province rightly boasts of one of the best educated work forces in the country, and the highest per capita income in Canada.
The Prairie region traditionally has the lowest level of unemployment of any area in the country. It is worth noting then, Mr. Speaker, that the forecast actual rate of unemployment, set at 8 per cent for this region this winter, is almost double what the area normally experiences. In addition, there is reason to believe that there is considerable hidden unemployment in the Prairies, since the labour force figures omit farmers idled by a slowdown in farm production. Furthermore, it is obvious that the "government's left hand doesn't know what the right's doing"; regional policy has been particularly lamentable for this region.
The government of Manitoba has estimated that that Province has lost more jobs because of the government's closing of certain military bases and the moving of Air Canada's repair facilities to Montreal, than the province has gained through the government's regional incentive programs. The government is trying to pump funds into certain areas to repair the damage it has done itself. As I said previously, Mr. Speaker, pumping money into an area cannot create jobs immediately, or even in the near future. It seems that the quickest way of producing work for people has always been, and will continue to be, through the municipalities and local governments. All of these governments have on their shelves many projects which could usefully be done during the winter months.
[DOT] (3:10 p.m.)
In previous years of high unemployment, special projects or winter works have been undertaken with federal and local co-operation. This means that even if a man does not have a permanent job he will be able to go out and do something, giving himself the satisfaction of earning money to keep himself and his family. This could very easily be done through a winter works program but the government has rejected it time and again-perhaps because it was originally a policy of the former Progressive Conservative government. If that is the reason it is a most lamentable situation, because this is where some help could reach those badly in need this winter.
To come now to Ontario, which is the traditional beneficiary of government money and fiscal policies, this centre, under the government's national policy, wi