Mr. Speaker, I regret that I must again rise on a question of privilege. I do so with reference to a document that has come to all of us. It purports to be from my friend, Bruce Phillips, president of the National Press Club.
At the outset I should like to make it clear that all of us in this place know the difference between the National Press Club and the Parliamentary Press Gallery. As I say, this matter relates to the National Press Club which has its quarters in a government building located at 150 Wellington Street. This letter starts off as follows:
Honourable Members of the Senate and the House of Commons,
Gentlemen:
All of us received a copy of this letter. I checked with my friend the hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway (Mrs. Maclnnis). She received it although it was just stuck in the box with no envelope. She does not know whether she is invited or not. She received the document but she is no gentleman. I understand the same dilemma obtains in respect of women members of the other place.
I know that in grammatical terms the masculine includes both masculine and feminine. I know that in the Interpretation Act the masculine is to be read both ways. But in the context of current events and in view of the fact that the National Press Club has in its constitution a ban on the admission of women to its membership and in view of the fact that this matter has been raised several times recently in Parliament, it seems to me this document is either an act of gross discourtesy to Members of Parliament, particularly the hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway and women members of the other place, or it is a calculated insult because of the questions we have raised about this matter.
The document is an invitation to all of us to attend an event which I should like to attend, for it has to do with recalling the anniversary of the night the House burned, but how can I? I point out that one reason for this question of privilege is that in the letter there is a specific request that the Speakers of both Houses and the leaders of all parties be in attendance. It seems to me that so long as the National Press Club practises discrimination we should consider seriously whether with propriety any of us, including Your Honour, can accept this invitation. I have not drafted a motion-


You are seeking publicity.


-because it could be that this document is a fraud. It could be that we should assume that the National Press Club would not be so stupid as to send this out. In that case maybe what is necessary is an investigation to find out how this document came into our possession. In any event, I believe the matter should be considered by all of us.
[DOT] (11:10 a.m.)


Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to be able to advise the House that most of the delays and difficulties which have recently been experienced in the government pay system have now been resolved.
In making this statement I would like to express my thanks to several hon. members who have brought particular pay problems and particular cases to our attention.


It is our pleasure.


At this time I would like to report on the present position in the Central Pay Office and also on the government's plans for continuing to improve the pay process.
January 30, 1970
3018	COMMONS
Public Service Retroactive Pay Cheques
During the past year the government has signed 78 collective agreements covering 185,000 of its employees. In addition, the government has negotiated another 36 collective agreements for employees in Crown Corporations, boards and agencies. Most of these agreements include retroactive pay increases back as far as two years or more. This enormous volume of pay changes imposed an unprecedented burden on the departmental personnel officers and also on our paying offices. The size of this burden is made evident by the fact that during the last nine months of 1969 the Central Pay Office alone issued over 100,000 cheques for retroactive pay increases.
It should be emphasized that at no time did the government pay offices fail to process and to issue regular salary cheques on time. The delays which have been of concern to the government and understandably frustrating to some of its employees have been with respect to the delays in receiving increases in pay.
When the backlog of pay changes began to climb as a result of the increasing flow of collective agreements, a number of steps were taken. We employed 75 additional personnel, we worked an average of 3,000 hours a month overtime, and we strengthened the management of the paying offices.
The result of these actions was that by last November we were able to meet our initial objective of having the paying offices in a current position with respect to the implementation of collective agreements; that is to say, if some employees were not receiving on time retroactive pay increases due them under a collective agreement, the problem was not in the paying offices but in other areas of the pay process. Every effort has been made through the personnel offices of the departments and through the staff associations to identify such cases and to take immediate action.
As soon as we were up to date with the implementation of collective agreements we were able to turn our full attention to the processing of normal pay changes, that is, pay changes for employees who are promoted, who go on leave without pay, who retire, or who change their medical or other deductions. Every month our paying offices receive more than 75,000 pay changes of this type. The backlog of these normal pay changes had built up to a serious level, but I am pleased to be able to report to the House that it has been reduced steadily in recent weeks and
IMr. Richardson.]

that within the next few days the backlog will be down to a very small number of unresolved cases.
Now that the current difficulties have been overcome-I want to emphasize this-because of the hard work of many people in the departments and in the paying offices, we have an opportunity to undertake a fundamental examination of the pay system. To make the most of this opportunity, and to help make certain that the recent difficulties will not recur, I intend to engage a firm of Canadian management consultants to examine all aspects of the government's pay system.


Here we go again, more Liberals on the pay roll.


My intention is that our pay system should be re-examined in terms of its responsiveness to the present system of collective bargaining in the Public Service, in terms of its relationship to over-all government personnel policy, and in terms of the ease with which an individual can understand how his salary cheque is calculated. It is my hope that representatives of the staff associations will be actively involved in this examination to express the point of view of their members.
I hope I have made it clear, Mr. Speaker, that we intend to do everything possible to ensure that the pay system measures up to the high standards of the government and to the understandably high expectations of its employees.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to note the minister now feels that the Central Pay Office is in a current position with respect to the implementation of collective agreements. I wonder whether the minister is referring to agreements affecting employees in the Ottawa area or across Canada, for I was informed this week that 13 employees in my constituency have been waiting since last May for both their retroactive pay and increases under a collective agreement and, unless they received them in the mail today, are still waiting to secure the increases agreed upon.
The minister points out the large volume of collective agreements and the tremendous volume of changes in the amount employees have received both in pay increases and retroactive pay, but there can be no excuse for the very substantial delays that have developed between the signing of agreements and the date on which such increases have
January 30, 1970

been effected. The government knew what would transpire when the system was altered but, like everything else this government does, they did not prepare themselves for the situation that did in fact develop and as a result people have suffered and continue to suffer.
Now the minister informs us that the future will be bright because another firm of management consultants will be hired by the government to examine all aspects of the government pay system. At this late date the minister has decided that the whole pay structure system should be examined. If the government continues to hire management consultants at the present rate we will soon be informed that they are hiring a firm of management consultants to study the work of the multitude of management consultant firms they have retained to study the oversights they have failed to anticipate when they undertook changes. If management consultants were required by the Department of Supply and Services, they were required before and not after they got into this mess, and surely they should be able to determine now within the government service, and without the additional expense of outside consultants, what should be done. The Department of Supply and Services should be setting an example for other departments in examining and solving problems rather than shifting the onus to agencies outside the government to solve problems that should not have been allowed to develop with such severity and dislocation in the first place.
The minister must know that his explanation is far from satisfactory with regard to the inability of his department to deal with the situation that developed. Certainly the 185,000 employees know this to be the case.
Because of the inability of the government to anticipate the problems that would ensue the taxpayers of this nation have been burdened with the expense of an additional 75 employees and payment for 3,000 hours of overtime. This, Mr. Speaker, is just not good enough and indicates the inability of this government to cope with the problems of the day.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the Minister of Supply and Services for providing us two or three hours ago with a copy of this statement and I thank him for making it in the House this morning.
DEBATES	3019
Public Service Retroactive Pay Cheques
[DOT] (11:20 a.m.)
Whether or not the delays and difficulties which have been experienced recently have been resolved will be established, I imagine, within hours. If it is true, we will not hear anything about the matter but if it is not true we will continue to hear from those who have not got their retroactive pay cheques.
Other than that initial comment, there are three brief remarks I should like to make. First, I join with the Minister of Supply and Services in criticizing the other areas of government that have been far too slow with respect to the matter of pay increases. As the minister has said on two or three occasions, he is only at the end of the pipeline. It is somewhere downstream, or upstream, that the delay has taken place. I earnestly hope that the business of getting collective bargaining going and pay increases put into effect will be speeded up and that the Minister of Supply and Services will not have to level this criticism against other areas of government.
The second of my three comments I suppose has been made for me by the preceding speaker. I, too, am afraid that this firm of management consultants will get in the way. We shall have to have more of them. In the end a white paper will have to be put out and, eventually, we shall have to have a reference to a committee. It seems to me that there ought to be a simpler way of straightening out this problem.
My third comment is that the paragraph I like best in the statement is the penultimate one which says:
It is my hope that representatives of the staff associations will be actively involved in this examination to express the point of view of their members.
I trust that the minister will turn that hope into an assertion. I have noted with interest the comments on this question which have been made, notably by the Public Service Alliance of Canada and the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada. They have made it clear that the main trouble is not with those who are working in the Central Pay Office but with the system, and they have ideas as to how the system can be improved. Their approach to this question is much more practical than that of management consultants. I hope the minister will not just hope that these people can get involved but will bring them in very actively and obtain their assistance in straightening out this situation so that these delays may be a thing of the past.
Public Accounts

January 30, 1970


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the minister lor sending us the French version of the statement he has just made.
We are pleased with the improvement mentioned by the minister and with the fact that the Treasury Board has always performed his task well. In his statement, the minister points out that the complaints by hon. members were given careful consideration. It is to the credit of the minister and for us encouragement to keep on asking for justice in Parliament.
We must, however, deplore the delay in payment of the 7 per cent premium to all bilingual employees. This delay, to my mind unjustified, does not further the cause of good understanding in Canada. I therefore urge the minister to give this problem special attention, particularly in the case of members of the House of Commons Protective Service who receive no recognition for being bilingual. It is so satisfying to French-speaking visitors to be welcomed in French in the parliament buildings that I feel special attention should be given to these guards who have long been deprived of something to which they are entitled.


Mr. Speaker, there have been discussions among the representatives of the parties with respect to a possible order of the House which would permit the Public Accounts Committee to complete the work it had under way during the previous session. I think there might be found to be general agreement for an order of the House in the following terms:
That a copy of the Minutes of the Proceedings and Evidence of, and all papers produced before, the Standing Committee on Public Accounts during the first session of the twenty-eighth Parliament in relation to the committee's inquiry into paragraph 101 of the Auditor General's report for the year ended March 31, 1967, be laid before the House and referred to the Standing Committee on Public Accounts.
If there is agreement, Mr. Speaker, perhaps that could be made an order of the House.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.
[Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg North Centre) .1


Mr. Speaker, there have also been discussions among representatives of the parties in respect of the work of the Maritime Forces Subcommittee of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence. I think there might also be agreement to the following order:
That the members who comprise the Subcommittee on Maritime Forces of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence be granted leave to travel outside Canada between February 15 and February 17, 1970, namely to Norfolk, Virginia, for the purpose of visiting the Supreme Allied Commander Atlantic, and Washington, D.C., and that the necessary supporting staff accompany them.
Perhaps that could also be made an order.


Does the House agree to the order in the terms proposed by the President of the Privy Council?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege affecting the rights and privileges of every member of the House.
At nine o'clock this morning the Minister of Fisheries held a press conference outside this House, and at that time he made a statement on the Atlantic coast seal fishery and the outcome of discussions he has held on this important matter with the Norwegian Minister of Fisheries. I contend that the Minister of Fisheries, in following this course, has been discourteous to the elected representatives of the people of Atlantic Canada and to the House of Commons.


Hear, hear.


We are thereby prevented from replying to his statement. By making the statement outside the House the Minister of Fisheries has held Parliament in contempt. This is not the first time the minister has acted in an arbitrary manner with regard to announcing regulations of concern to the sealing industry. In fact, he completely ignored a
January 30, 1970

unanimous recommendation by the Standing Committee on Fisheries and Forestry in respect of this industry which is of vital importance to the economy of Atlantic Canada.
In our opinion, if the Minister of Fisheries had any respect for Parliament he would have waited two hours more and made his statement in the House.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I am rising more on a question of privilege than in response to what one might call the substance of that charge. The hon. member has said that I have completely disregarded a recommendation of a committee of this House. Nothing could be farther from the truth. That committee recommended that the sealing hunt continue and it is continuing.


You have destroyed the industry.


It recommended protection by certain conservation measures. These precautions have also been incorporated in the arrangements we have made in recent months. We have followed the recommendations of the committee of this House to the letter.


Oh, oh.


Hear, hear.


Order, please.


A misleading and false statement.


Order, please. The hon.
member for South Shore has raised a matter by way of a question of privilege. I think he will recognize that there is not a question of privilege. In any event there has been no motion proposed.


Oh, oh!


Order, please. In connection with the hon. member's purported question of privilege I would make the ruling that it is not a question of privilege and I should not think the matter should be pursued further.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to rise on a point of order in reference to statements made on motions. In doing so I would refer to page 9 of the Standing Orders where the kind of statements that can be made is outlined. It is my personal view as a member
Inquiries of the Ministry of the House that the Minister of Manpower and Immigration yesterday and the Minister of Supply and Services today did not follow the rules of the House in respect of making brief and succinct statements of government policy. Nor did the members of the opposition follow the rules in commenting upon those statements. I believe it is most important that regulations affecting sealing on the east coast and salmon on the west coast are not dealt with at all times in the House. We have other things to deal with that-


Oh, oh!


Order, please. I have some doubt whether that is a point of order. It is my impression that the hon. member is seeking to initiate a debate on a substantive question, and I feel that cannot be done either by way of a question of privilege or a point of order.
[DOT] (11:30 a.m.)


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Finance I should like to direct a question to the Minister without Portfolio from Windsor West. It relates to the promised paper to supplement the white paper on tax reform. This supplementary paper, which it was promised would be issued before the end of January, has not arrived. Can the minister indicate to the House when the supplementary paper will be available to the House and to the people of Canada? I ask this question because of the obvious absurdity of the people of Canada having to consider the question of tax reform without knowing what the government's proposals are.


Mr. Speaker, my recollection of the minister's words before the committee is that the paper in question could be expected probably by the end of January. Work is proceeding on it. I am sure it will be presented at the earliest possible date. I recall the minister saying that the paper was to set out various factors to be taken into account in considering one particular aspect of the white paper.


I am disappointed that the minister cannot give us any idea when it will
3022	COMMONS DEBATES	January 30. 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry be received. May I ask the minister also whether it is the intention to present a supplementary paper relating to modifications in the white paper consequent upon discussions with the provinces, it having been indicated that this might happen? Can the minister give us any information concerning when we may expect such a supplementary paper?


Mr. Speaker, I would think it would be more appropriate to hear evidence before the committee before proceeding along the lines my hon. friend is suggesting.


I wonder whether the minister could say whether it would be proper for us, until we receive these supplementary papers, to pretend that the white paper does not really exist or, indeed, whether the minister would encourage us to believe that eventually the government might withdraw the white paper and start all over again?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question on the urgent and important matter of housing. The Minister without Portfolio in charge of housing has not been in the House for three days. I suppose I should address my question to the Prime Minister, or to any other minister who can answer a question on housing. When the minister makes his promised statement on public housing shortly, will he include a statement on the government's reaction to the proposal of the Ontario Housing Corporation for a study of revision and reduction of rentals for public housing?


Mr. Speaker, first of all I should like to inform the House that when the Minister without Portfolio in charge of housing is not present during this question period it is my responsibility to appear on his behalf, and I have been here on occasions earlier this week when he has been away on government business. I will certainly be pleased to draw the hon. member's question to the minister's attention. I am sure his question will be given consideration along with other important matters pertaining to this area of policy.


Does the minister propose to make a statement to the House on Monday dealing with an increase in funds available for low-cost public housing?


Mr. Speaker, I have not yet had an opportunity to check with my colleague concerning the exact date of an announcement in this area. I believe it will come forward very shortly and I think will indicate the government's intention to give emphasis to this area of housing need.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the hon. Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
Can he tell us whether the agreement with the Province of Quebec concerning the transfer of land for developing a national park in the Gaspe Peninsula is final, and whether work on the project is to start as planned?


Mr. Speaker, the arrangement is final. However the Quebec government has not yet transferred that land to us and we can only start work if and when we are in possession of such land.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question. Could the minister advise the House whether or not he has met with members of the Quebec government with a view to arriving at an agreement concerning the mining rights inside the park?


Mr. Speaker, that problem was settled at the time of the agreement. In a national park, no mining or oil operations are allowed. That point should not have been raised recently for the agreement had provided for that.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development whose remarks on strategy I listened to with interest this morning over the CBC. Is action being taken or has action been taken by the government of Canada to protect the interests of its wards, the Eskimo-Canadians at Fort Chimo, in respect of the transferring of authority over them to the
January 30, 1970

provincial government, particularly in respect of their right to the language of their choice in the schools and, generally, to what degree are these people being given the opportunity as Canadians to determine their course rather than being placed in the position of being pushed around like chattels?


Mr. Speaker, may I point out to the right hon. member that negotiations are under way and that the first condition we make, with regard to any transfer, is that the people who live in the New Quebec territories be free to worship as they please and to speak the language of their choice.


Would the minister say with whom the negotiations are taking place, and will he also answer the question concerning why it is that decisions of this kind are being made without the consent of these Canadians of the Eskimo race who are entitled to be consulted and not to be pushed around?


Mr. Speaker, it is not true that decisions have been taken. Discussions are presently in progress and I am pleased to inform the right hon. member that a team comprised of one provincial and one federal official is now travelling through Canada. This team will visit New Quebec in order to consider what formulas could be adopted to ensure that the Eskimos will participate fully in Quebec and Canadian life.


Have these Eskimo people at Fort Chimo consented to being pushed around in this way?


Oh, oh!


If they are not being pushed around, then why are they going up north to the Northwest Territories?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think the right hon. gentleman knows the situation very well.


I have all the facts here. [Translation]


A few years ago we concluded an agreement to the effect that no
Inquiries oj the Ministry change of jurisdiction would take place unless the Eskimos participated in the discussions. That is exactly what we are doing now, by sending two officials to that region.


Order, please.


Unless they agree.


The hon. member for Abitibi. [Translation]


Mr. Speaker,
I should like to put a supplementary question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Has he received representations from parents in other New Quebec communities expressing their fear about the language in which their children will receive their education and can he assure us that Eskimos are kept well informed by Quebec authorities?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to point out to the hon. member that last summer, I visited four Eskimo and Indian villages in New Quebec. I heard the grievances of those citizens and I assured them there would be no jurisdictional transfer unless the protection of their language and religion was guaranteed.
We have undertaken other action to keep them better informed. We have invited Eskimos to meetings held in Quebec city, where federal and provincial officials were present. The proceedings have been translated in Eskimo, English and French, and have been sent to Eskimos for study. Discussions are going on at the moment, with the participation of one federal and one provincial official.


Why are they leaving there in such numbers?


have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister have his department make inquiries as to why a relatively large number of Eskimos have moved from Fort Chimo in view of the assurances given by the minister to the Eskimos that they would not be forced to change the language of their education?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know the exact number of Eskimos who have emigrated from Fort Chimo to the Northwest Territories, but I shall try to get it. I know
Inquiries of the Ministry that two or three families left Suglic last winter, and all of them, except one, returned to Suglic last summer, to start living again in their community and with their fellow-citizens.


['I may indeed have opportunities to discuss the very important question of agricultural policy in England, Mr. Speaker, and the access to that market for Canadian wheat under a variety of circumstances in the future. I thank the hon. member for making the suggestion.']
I have a supplementary question to the minister regarding the rights of individuals to determine their own course of action. Is it still the intention of the government to force Indian children in Stony Creek, British Columbia, to attend the public school rather than the Roman Catholic school they have been attending for a number of years?


No, Mr. Speaker. By the way, an official from my department stated yesterday before the committee, that the Indians had the right to attend the school of their choice. Of course, a particular situation will soon develop there because of the increasing number of school-age children. Since there may be a shortage of school rooms next year, department officials have given to understand that it might be desirable that some pupils attend public school, but I can assure the hon. member that no family will be forced to have their children attend this school.


I should like to address a question to the right hon. Prime Minister. Would he take the first opportunity on motions to advise the House of the results of the foreign policy review which he initiated nearly two years ago, in addition, of course, to the government's policy on NATO which was announced some time ago?


Thus far the results are evident in the great deal of work done by the Department of External Affairs and by the ministers who are members of the cabinet committee that is studying the recommendations and reports.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does the Prime Minister expect to take the House into his confidence in the

January 30. 1970
near future as to what the actual results are, and is he confident that the policy which members of the government are studying at the present time will be equally successful in antagonizing our principal allies and trading partners as our policy of withdrawing troops from NATO has been?


Order, please.


I should like to direct a question to the minister in charge of the Wheat Board arising from the press release issued by the minister's office yesterday in which the minister stated:
I am going to England next week to consult with our principal buyers there, not as a grain salesman, mind you.
My question is: What is the purpose of the minister's trip, or is he just going as a tourist?


Order.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question arises out of the question asked by the hon. member for Marquette. During the minister's stay in Britain, will he take the opportunity to discuss with that government the concern of Canadian farmers about the possible loss of markets, and will he report back on the stance the British government will take during negotiations for their entry into the European Common Market?


I may indeed have opportunities to discuss the very important question of agricultural policy in England, Mr. Speaker, and the access to that market for Canadian wheat under a variety of circumstances in the future. I thank the hon. member for making the suggestion.


I have a question for the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the fact that Dr. Solandt has obviously come to the decision that he intends to remain as chairman of the Science Council of Canada, has the minister had any indication that Dr. Solandt is currently considering divesting himself of his

January 30, 1970

interests in the Electric Reduction Company of Canada as an alternative means of freeing himself from conflict-of-interest charges?


No, I have had no such
indication.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Are members of this House to conclude that Canada is so poverty-stricken in the field of science that Dr. Solandt is the only competent and capable scientist available to occupy this very sensitive post?


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member that her question is argumentative.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the President of the Privy Council. Is it the intention of the government to move shortly to implement the very important proposals and recommendations of the Special Committee on Statutory Instruments?


We have had the proposals under consideration, and a draft proposal is now being completed which I hope will be available to the House before the end of the session.


I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister use what influence he has with the President of the Privy Council to speed up the process, and would he take into account the very alarming and dangerous increase in executive dictatorial powers contained in recent government legislation and the need to provide countervailing supervisory powers to Parliament?


I wish to inform the hon. member that I do not have that much leverage with the House Leader. He is always threatening to resign if I make him do that.


Oh, oh.


have a question for the Minister of Indian
Inquiries of the Ministry Affairs and Northern Development. Can the Minister advise the House if and when he will be making a statement regarding the government's participation or non-participation, as the case may be, in the Panarctic Oil consortium?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for giving me notice of his question. I am unable to say when I shall make a statement, but the government is ready to make public its opinion on the matter. I hope to be in a position to make such a statement in the House next week.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development whether the government has had any firm offers for its share of Panarctic Oils Limited?


Mr. Speaker, I replied a moment ago in answer to a question by the hon. member for Kamloops-Cariboo that I would have a statement to make next week in this connection.


My question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the appointment of persons holding positions at the so-called regional desks in the Prime Minister's office to positions in departments in spite of the freeze on personnel hiring, will the Prime Minister advise whether the regional desk positions will remain vacant or does he contemplate making new appointments?


Order, please. I am not sure that this question is urgent or that it should be asked at this time. I wonder if the hon. member might not consider the advisability of placing his question on the Order Paper.


LISTING OF INGREDIENTS ON FOOD PRODUCTS Mr. P. V. Noble (Grey-Simcoe): I should like to direct a question to the Minister of
January 30, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry Consumer and Corporate Affairs, but in view of his absence perhaps I can direct it to the Acting Minister, the Solicitor General. How soon may the Canadian people expect ingredient listing on food products?
1 will be very glad to take the question as notice and bring it to the attention of the minister.


My question is for the able and cooperative Minister of Transport.


He must feel lost over there.


In
view of the fact that only one icebreaker, the Wolfe is at present on the east coast where ice conditions, I am informed, are very hazardous, whereas the bulk of the icebreaker fleet is at present located on the St. Lawrence, will the minister investigate the situation and have it remedied in view of its urgency?


We are reassessing ice conditions on a daily basis, and if it should prove necessary to put some vessels into the area in question we will be glad to do it. In the meantime, let me assure the hon. member that I will be delighted to keep the "Wolfe" at his door.


have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, but in his absence perhaps I might direct it to his Parliamentary Secretary. In view of reports following yesterday's meeting between the minister and the Ontario Minister of Energy and Resources Management, does the minister propose, in addressing the Standing Committee on National Resources on Monday, to announce amendments with respect to the Canada Water Act and particularly the payment of effluent fees?


I will be glad to bring the hon. member's

representation to the attention of the minister so that he can make an announcement on Monday if he so desires.


On
Monday last the hon. member for Cape Bret-on-The Sydneys asked a question about the marine services of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and I undertook to bring forward further information. The situation is that the method of control of these services both as to personnel and the responsibility for the use of the boats is being re-examined. The services will now report through the divisional command in the region in which the boats are being used. I might add that in addition two of the boats will be taken out of service this spring because they are obsolescent and not suitable for the purpose for which they are being used.


A supplementary, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the minister if he would go further and assure the House that the mounties will be able to get their man on sea as well as on land?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister without Portfolio in charge of the Wheat Board. In view of reports that practically all of the wheat for the port of Churchill shipping season has been sold, will he consider making representations to his colleague the Minister of Transport to immediately extend the Churchill shipping season from its present short length of time?


Mr. Speaker, I believe the hon. member knows that my colleague, the Minister of Transport, has this matter in hand for consideration. Certainly on our part we are always concerned to see that the port of Churchill is used to the maximum extent possible for the shipment of wheat.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of this and other indications that the port of Churchill will be used more extensively than was suggested in the recent report tabled by the minister, will he consider
January 30, 1970	COMMONS
using his good offices, particularly as a cabinet minister from the province of Saskatchewan, to urge that the development plan for the port of Churchill be speeded up from what is proposed in the report?


The hon. member is making a representation; it is hardly a question.


I have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. During his discussions with the Prime Minister of Great Britain did he bring to the attention of Prime Minister Wilson the serious effects on Canadian agriculture that are bound to follow if the United Kingdom enters the European Common Market unless similar provisions are made to those agreed to by Prime Minister McMillan during my administration as Prime Minister to protect Canadian agriculture as well as that of Australia and New Zealand?


Mr. Speaker, we did raise this general subject with the Prime Minister of Great Britain and I was greatly assisted in this endeavour by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. The subject was discussed at some length and during the discussions the Prime Minister of Great Britain said that there had been no guarantees of that type given at the time of previous negotiations with the Common Market.


Mr. Speaker, I say there were. They are fully set out and express rights were protected.


Mr. Speaker, I would be very interested to find out where they were set out. If they were not verbal, perhaps they were in documented form and if so I would like to have the reference.


All you have to do is look it up. So Canadian agriculture is to be sacrificed.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister without Portfolio from Windsor
DEBATES	3027
Inquiries of the Ministry West whether he is in a position to answer the question I asked earlier in the week following a question addressed to the Minister of Finance a week ago on the attitude of the government toward the increase in Quebec-Ontario trucking rates and whether the government proposes to take any initiative at all in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to apologize to my hon. friend for not having the information here for him at this time but I will have the answer for him on Monday.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the genial Minister of Transport. The minister's Parliamentary Secretary took notice of this question on Tuesday during his absence. In view of current reports from the United States that the tremendous grain boxcar shortage in that country may result in legislation to rectify the situation, would the minister indicate if he is taking any steps to make sure that Canadian boxcars in use in the United States are being returned to Canada within the prescribed time limit?


Mr. Speaker, I have a large number of figures on the boxcar situation at the moment and I would be glad to make them available to the hon. member. I would also inform him at this time that the continuing discussions with the presidents of the two railways will go on. I should like to emphasize, as has my colleague the Minister without Portfolio from Saskatoon-Humboldt, the importance of getting as many cars back as possible.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the minister consider a materially increased daily rental or demurrage charge on Canadian boxcars being used in the United States to ensure the speedy return of our rolling stock?


Mr. Speaker, this is a matter for the railways in the first instance, but I shall be very glad to discuss it with them at my next meeting which should be Monday or Tuesday.
3028	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry


A supplementary question to the Minister without Portfolio in charge of the Wheat Board, Mr. Speaker. In view of the serious shortage of boxcars at many points in Saskatchewan and the serious lack of diesel units available to haul boxcars, could the minister now state whether there are any orders on hand issued by the Canadian Wheat Board that the Canadian Pacific Railway and Canadian National Railways have not been able to fulfil at this time?


Mr. Speaker, the question does not permit a simple answer. First of all, the area is divided into two parts, the part fully within the block system and the part that is not. Within the block system orders are met on schedule according to the program laid out from week to week. In the case of the nonblock system, orders may be outstanding for some time before cars are spotted. The block system will be fully in effect, I think, by the end of February and at that time there should be complete order in the way in which cars arrive to pick up the orders.
The question of motive power available to the railways is one of very serious concern to us. We have had discussions with the railways to ensure that they will take steps to bring their motive power into position to handle the very large number of carload orders which-


Order, please. The hon.
member for Saint-Hyacinthe.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport.
Could he advise the House if an agreement has been reached with the Quebec government respecting the international airport at St. Scholastique?


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the airport is entirely within the competence of the federal government there is no necessity for such an official agreement. In

DEBATES	January 30, 1970
terms of our working agreements and relationships and in terms of the development of various parts of the land that has been acquired, I can say that negotiations are going forward amiably and, I think, profitably, and I would hope to be able to make a full statement on the matter on Tuesday or Wednesday of next week.


Mr. Speaker, my question could have been supplementary to that asked previously by the hon. member for Dartmouth-Halifax East and the answer provided by the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on the possible lack of accommodation for Indian children. I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence if the Canadian government is providing funds for the building of a military college in Tanzania or any other foreign country?


Not to my knowledge, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries. Now that the minister by his arbitrary decision has effectively destroyed the Canadian seal industry contrary to the unanimous wishes of the Fisheries Committee-


Oh, oh.


Order, please. The hon. member should not make a statement, he should ask a question.


Mr. Speaker, I consider it to be a very serious question and not at all frivolous as some members across the way may think. My question to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry is: what steps will the government of Canada take to compensate the fishermen of the Magdalen Islands and Newfoundland who will suffer economic hardship as a consequence of the minister's arbitrary decision to ban the harvesting of white coat seals?


Mr. Speaker, after a record
January 30, 1970

number of ships have returned from the seal hunt this spring, we will see how they made out.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a couple of supplementary questions. First, can the minister indicate the extent of the seal herd in the North Atlantic, especially since he has indicated that an increase of one million seals will reduce the incomes of Newfoundland fishermen by about 25 per cent? Also, could he indicate what will be the result of the conservation measures on the increase in the seal herd?


Mr. Speaker, scientists tell us that the present seal population is of the order of 2.5 million. If there were no harvesting of seals it would increase by 1.5 million. That increase would seriously affect our other fishery activities in the North Atlantic.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the minister make a statement on motions to indicate what measures will be taken either to increase or control the size of the seal herd, in view of the detrimental effect on other fisheries? Will he also indicate what negotiations have taken place with the Soviet Union in order that we may be assured that benefits to be gained from conservation measures will not end up in the pockets of the Russians, since its fishing fleet could conceivably prosecute the North Atlantic fishery?


Mr. Speaker, as a result of the continuation of the seal hunt, and because only older seals will be taken, there will not be any difficulty in maintaining the herd at its present level. There will therefore, be no detrimental effect as a result of any recent steps taken. The Soviet Union participated, as late as 1964, in this fishery but we do not expect that it will in future.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Solicitor General. He was here a moment ago. Perhaps if I ask my question slowly he will return to his seat in time to answer it. In view of the forthcoming visit of Her Majesty to Canada this year, will any arrangements be made to grant a special amnesty to inmates in federal prisons? Will their time be reduced as a result of the exercise of the royal prerogative?
Inquiries of the Ministry Hon. G. J. Mcllrailh (Solicitor General):
Mr. Speaker, I will be very glad to consider the hon. member's suggestion.


Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In his absence, however, may I direct it to the right hon. Prime Minister?
Since Canada has received an invitation from Mauritania to attend the forthcoming conference on education, can the Prime Minister tell us whether he has decided to send a delegation and, if so, what its make-up will be?


Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to add to what the Secretary of State for External Affairs told the House in that respect. Federal officials, in co-operation with the provinces concerned, are now considering the make-up of a Canadian delegation.


Mr. Speaker, could the Prime Minister indicate to the House whether provinces other than Quebec have hinted that they would send some of their own representatives to that conference?


Mr. Speaker, I could not tell. There were representatives from two or three provinces in the previous Canadian delegations. That is likely to be the case this time, but I cannot give any assurance to the House. That will of course depend on the provinces themselves.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Revenue. Will the minister look into a rather rare coincidence involving officials of his department? It seems that certain taxpayers recently visited by his tax officials were people who, just previous to the visits, had criticized the white paper on tax reform.


Perhaps that will explain why our western farmers have not been left free from the same course.
January 30. 1970

Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary to the one asked a moment ago by the hon. member for Saint John-Lancaster. If all those who have criticized the white paper on tax reform are being investigated by officials of the Department of National Revenue, I wonder if the minister would consider asking the Minister of National Defence for troops to cover the whole job?


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport? Is the hon. gentleman in a position to table the decision of the CTC on improved air service for the prairies which he indicated last night would be available at ten o'clock this morning?


Mr. Speaker, I have both the judgment and the press release here and, if it is so wished, I will be glad to table them. Other copies will be available. However, if the hon. member wishes me to I will be glad to table a copy of the judgment.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Since the President of Air Canada made it known publicly a couple of days ago that Air Canada is pressing very hard for lower transatlantic fares for the ordinary travelling public, is the government pressing Air Canada to make lower fares available to Canadians travelling in this country as well?


Mr. Speaker, I have not discussed this matter with the chairman of the board of Air Canada, but I am sure this is something that will come up in the near future. Of course, we must also make sure that the fares do not descend to the point where they become a drain on the general public. We must not reduce fare