I have the honour to inform the House that a message has been received from the Senate informing this House that the Senate have passed Bill C-12, an Act to establish the International Development Research Centre, with amendments, to which the concurrence of this House is desired.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. This question of privilege is twofold. It arises as a consequence of the fourth report of the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections which appears in Votes and Proceedings for last Thursday.
One of the main considerations of that committee was the question of qualifications of electors and candidates in elections. I had presented a bill, C-120, similar to a bill which had been presented by the Minister without Portfolio from York-Scarborough and to two other bills which were on the Order Paper. All these bills, which were referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections, provided that all people who vote in elections or who are candidates in elections should be Canadian citizens. The idea was that the Canada Elections Act would be changed so that British subjects who were not Canadian citizens would no longer be entitled to vote in elections or be candidates in an election.
Apparently this matter was considered by the Committee on Privileges and Elections and in its fourth report under item 9 of Part I of the recommendations the sense of those bills has been completely reversed. It states in effect that only Canadian citizens would be qualified as electors and then in parentheses these words are added:
for this purpose British subjects, other than Canadian citizens, who were ordinarily resident in Canada on the 25th day of June 19G7, be deemed to be Canadian citizens.
Mr. Speaker, one cannot be deemed to be a Canadian citizen. Either one is a Canadian citizen or is not. This whole thing is a mockery of the bills that were referred to the committee. Under the guise of saying that one must be a Canadian citizen in order to qualify as an elector the committee has added in parentheses that a British subject is to be deemed to be a Canadian citizen.
[DOT] (2:10 p.m.)
My question of privilege is twofold. First of all, the committee has no right to take bills and turn them around.


Why not?


Second, a committee, when considering a bill of an hon. member, should at least invite the hon. member who presented the bill to be present at the hearing.


Hear, hear!


Who else is more qualified to speak about the bill than the author of the bill? This was not done and is never done. I suggest that these are two points of privilege which must be considered, and I am prepared to move a motion accordingly if Your Honour will accept this question of privilege.


May I first thank the hon. member for his co-operation in agreeing yesterday to postpone the consideration of this matter until this sitting of the House. The delay has made it possible to give additional consideration to the interesting point he has raised for determination by the Chair. The hon. member reminded the House that Bill C-120 standing in the hon. member's name was removed from the Order Paper some time ago after the subject matter thereof was referred by consent, to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections. Eventually, the committee reported to the House. The committee report does refer to the hon. member's bill and submits recommendations which the hon. member suggests differ from the proposals contained in his bill.
The hon. member suggests that he has a question of privilege on two counts: first, that the committee report does not conform with certain aspects of his private bill and, second,
March 24, 1970

Treatment of Private Bills that he was not notified when the committee proceeded with the consideration of Bill C-120.
I wish I could say that as a result of the additional time I have had to consider this matter, due to the hon. member's forbearance and courtesy, the Chair has been able to conclude that he has a legitimate question of privilege. In my view, whether the committee's findings and recommendations conform or do not conform with the proposals contained in the private bill cannot constitute a question of privilege. There are no rules and no precedents to support the hon. member's contention.
The second difficulty raised by the hon. member for Cochrane to the effect that he did not receive advance notice of the consideration by the committee of the subject matter of the bill, while it may amount to a legitimate grievance, does not justify a prima facie question of privilege. All hon. members will agree, I am sure, that as a matter of courtesy an hon. member whose bill or motion is to be considered by a committee should be notified by the committee chairman, the committee clerk, or someone on their behalf. I believe that this is the normal practice. I believe that in normal circumstances, when a private bill, or more often the subject matter of a private bill, is referred for consideration by a committee, either the committee chairman or the committee clerk gets in touch with the member or the member himself takes the initiative to communicate with the officers in charge of proceedings in the committee to ensure that he will be available when the matter is considered and discussed in the committee. In any event I would like to suggest that the procedure should be reviewed so as to ensure that advance notice is always conveyed to the sponsors of private bills and resolutions which have been referred to committees so that the unfortunate incident of which the hon. member has been a victim cannot be repeated.
This having been said, I have to rule that although the hon. member would appear to have a very legitimate grievance, there is no question of privilege on which a motion could be founded and put to the House at this time.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 17 I rise on a question of privilege. Notice of this question has been given to Your Honour to fulfil the conditions of Standing Order 17(2). My ques-

tion of privilege relates to the mail addressed to, and I quote, "My Member of Parliament, P.O. Box 4430, Ottawa, Ontario."
I raise this question at the earliest opportunity because it has only come to my attention that mail intended for myself was forwarded to another Member of Parliament, and because of other details regarding this case of which I was not aware prior to now.
I believe that Members of Parliament have the right to expect free access by their constituents to themselves without going through an outside intermediary, and I maintain that the action taken by those responsible for the dissemination of information indicating an improper address for Members of Parliament is a direct violation of my privileges and the privileges of all members of this House.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, as much as I laud the actions of those responsible for these advertisements in so far as they are attempting to involve more people in the democratic process and to advance the goal of participation in the Governmental Process, I feel that their ill-conceived actions have resulted in a backward step for genuine participation. It does not further the cause of participation to publish a misleading and erroneous address for all members of this House.
I further contend that no individuals or groups have the right, however lofty their motives, to place themselves as an intermediary between the public and their elected representatives, and to do so is to violate our exclusive rights as members of this House.


Hear, hear.


I further contend that no one has the right to intercept my mail and remove it from the post office for any purpose whatsoever. This is not only a violation of the Post Office Act, section 8, which gives the Postmaster General the sole and exclusive privilege of collecting, conveying and delivering letters within Canada, but it is also a violation of the privileges of this House in so far as this mail was directed to Members of Parliament. Furthermore, the Post Office Act, section 39, indicates that "mailable matter becomes the property of the person to whom it is addressed when deposited in a post office."
I further contend that the very act of establishing this post office box is a contravention of my rights as a member of this House and the Post Office Act, section 69, which makes it
March 24, 1970

an offence for anyone other than the postal authorities to "undertake to collect, convey or deliver any letter within Canada."
It is my understanding, Mr. Speaker, that not only was this mail removed from the post office box but that in many cases such mail was redirected to Members of Parliament on an arbitrary basis without due consideration to determine to whom it should have been directed. Consequently mail intended for one Member of Parliament was misdirected to other Members of Parliament.
I believe, Mr. Speaker, that all hon. members have the right to know what happened to this mail following its removal from post office box 4430 and prior to it being delivered. Were tabulations prepared as to quantity, or was any attempt made to prepare mailing lists? If either of these things was done I feel, with all respect, that our rights have been most seriously violated.


Hear, hear!


There is one last point, Mr. Speaker, regarding the use of P.O. Box 4430. Many people in Canada may well believe that this is the official way to contact their Member of Parliament. How many may have set that address aside for use at a future date? There is enough alienation in our society without misleading the public as to how to communicate with the members of this House. In view of the importance of this matter I hereby move that the subject matter of this question of privilege be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections for report thereon.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I just want to say in regard to the question of privilege that has been raised that I have received hundreds of letters and coupons and they have come to me directly because my constituents know who I am.


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!
[DOT] (2:20 p.m.)


On a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. There is now a question of privilege before the House and we cannot have two questions of privilege at the same time; the one before the House is complication enough. The hon. member seeks the
Use of Post Office Box 4430 floor either on a point of order or on a question of privilege but I wonder if it is a matter of urgency. If he has a legitimate point of order perhaps I should hear it.


A point of order, Mr. Speaker, which will not take very long. My point is that I believe the hon. member for Ontario did a disservice to this House by not reading that message nearly as well as the Minister of Finance who wrote it out for him.


Oh, oh!


On a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker, the hon. member-


Order,	please.	The	hon.
member for Ontario already has one question of privilege. He cannot have two questions of privilege at the same time.


Mr. Speaker, I demand an apology-


Order,	please.	The	hon.
member has to wait until the Chair has had his say. For the moment the hon. member has to be patient. I wish I had followed my original intention and not recognized the hon. member for Prince Edward-Hastings.
I am sure the hon. member for Prince Edward-Hastings was not seriously suggesting that the statement made by the hon. member for Ontario was not his own or that he was not himself the author of the question of privilege which he has submitted to the House. I am sure the hon. member, who has long experience in the House, knows that he has no right to make this suggestion and I would invite him to confirm the understanding of the Chair.


Withdraw!


With all due respect, Mr. Speaker, you may be right in imputing to the hon. member rather facetious motives but I know that neither I nor anyone else in the House has the right to impute motives and I feel that on the basis of what he has said I deserve an apology for an absolutely inaccurate and insulting statement by the hon. member.


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I do not wish to impute motives in any way. All I did was criticize the hon. member's mode of reading a message that had been prepared for him by another hon. member.
March 24, 1970

Use of Post Office Box 4430


Oh, oh!


Order, please. Order, please.


I will say it was well read and then everybody will be happy.


The Chair would not be happy. The hon. member cannot make this suggestion and he has to agree that when an hon. member has made a statement or a speech no other hon. member has the right to suggest that it has not been prepared by himself and is not an expression of his own views and thoughts. That is why I have invited the hon. member to indicate to the Chair that my understanding of his thoughts is correct.


Mr. Speaker, as always I will be very glad to agree with your ruling and withdraw my remarks.


He could not write that well.


Mr. Speaker, I am rising on the same question of privilege to say very briefly that while I do not mind getting coupons which should be sent to my colleague the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre and I do not even mind getting coupons from that part of the area which is now in the constituency of Selkirk, I do object to having to answer people who live in the constituencies of Winnipeg South Centre, Winnipeg South or St. Boniface. I think those members should deal with their own coupons and I wish they could be sent to the right members and not to me.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on the same question of privilege. I need not mention names or name places because I think Your Honour is aware of the situation I am alluding to. Not only is there outside interference but there has been inside interference, so to speak, which has been drawn to Your Honour's attention. Not only is there interference with the mails but also with the operations in my own office. This matter, which has been brought to Your Honour's attention, could very well be tied in with any vote on the question of privilege raised by the hon. member for Ontario.


Order, please. As hon. members will remember, yesterday the right hon. member for Prince Albert raised as a question of privilege the fact that the box in question had been closed. Today the hon. member for Ontario has raised his question of privilege on the grounds that the box has been opened. This leaves the Chair in a box.

I will search for the key to the riddle and try to give an answer. I will consider the matter very seriously. I realize this is a matter of very serious import and have wondered myself for some time whether, in one way or another, the rights and privileges of hon. members were in any way adversely affected either by the opening of the box or by the closing of the box or by the operations which are related in some way to this question. I am pleased the matter was raised earlier by the right hon. member for Prince Albert and today by the hon. member for Ontario.
I should say that I have some procedural misgivings about the way the matter was raised today by the hon. member for Ontario. We all know that one of the most important considerations to be taken into account by the Chair in determining whether there is a prima facie case of privilege is whether the matter was raised at the first opportunity. The hon. member is really complaining that this box was opened some time ago. It seems to me that, so far as all hon. members are concerned, this has been common knowledge or should have been common knowledge for some weeks now. I therefore wonder whether the matter being raised now is being raised at the first opportunity. That is an aspect of the matter that the Chair cannot overlook. With this reservation, the matter will be looked into and tomorrow perhaps or on Thursday, if the House is sitting then, the Chair will give a decision.


Don't scare us, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have tabled today copies in the two official languages of volume I of the Report of the Auditor General to the House of Commons for the fiscal year ended March 31st, 1969.
As the House is aware, the Financial Administration Act requires that the report of the Auditor General be laid before the House on or before December 31st or, if Parliament is then not in session, within 15 days after the commencement of the next ensuing session. The Auditor General has asked me to
March 24, 1970

extend his apologies to the House for the lateness of his report which has been caused by circumstances beyond his control.
In order to reduce the delay to a minimum, the report is being submitted in two volumes. Volume I contains the introduction followed by the usual summary of expenditure and revenue and comments on expenditure and revenue transactions. Volume II, which will be completed and tabled later, will contain the summary of assets and liabilities and the sections on Crown Corporations, departmental operating activities and special audits and examinations.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday it was requested of me, and the House agreed, that I should table certain figures relating to wages, salaries and supplementary labour incomes and also figures relating to corporate profits before taxes for the last 20 years. I am prepared to do that now.


Mr. Speaker, some time ago you kindly informed me that there was some delay in supplying hon. members with copies of the Canada Year Book and the handbook "Canada". You also suggested that I table those publications so that they could be distributed more quickly to hon. members. In accordance with your wish and with Standing Order 41(2) of the House, I am happy to table today copies of the Canada Yearbook and of the handbook "Canada" in the two official languages.
[DOT] (2:30 p.m.)


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 41(2) I wish to table in the two official languages copies of a feasibility study of tidal power development in the Bay of Fundy.
Inquiries of the Ministry


I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. As the Prime Minister was obviously well satisfied with the results of the six days he spent recently in the Arctic examining first-hand the living conditions of our native peoples, is he planning to spend an equivalent period of time during the parliamentary recess visiting the slums of our major cities, examining first-hand the living conditions of those living below the poverty line?


The hon. member for Nanai-mo-Cowichan-The Islands.


A supplementary question.


Order, please. I will return to the hon. member in due course.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Defence regarding the announcement that United States military aircraft will undertake an exercise over the province of Saskatchewan? In view of the concern which has been expressed by people in that province because of the lack of information, can the minister tell the House the purpose of the exercise? Can he also tell the House at what altitude these planes will be flying and whether any Canadian planes will be participating in this exercise?


Mr. Speaker, I have to contest the assertion by the hon. member that there was a lack of information. We did issue a very comprehensive press release in which the altitudes, routes and everything were spelled out. The purpose of the exercise is, within the arrangements we have with the government of the United States, to help SAC pilots practise on different routes than what they are accustomed to. With regard to the last part of the question, there are no Canadians participating except with reference to the ground arrangements so that we have control of the operation.
5396	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry


A supplementary question. Will the planes in question be carrying any explosive bombs, incendiary bombs or any other explosive devices that could constitute a danger to the civilian population in the event of any of them meeting with a mishap?


No, Mr. Speaker. I believe this was stressed in the press communique. There will not be any weapons aboard.


A further supplementary. In view of the fact the minister has explained that the purpose of the exercise is to familiarize pilots with unfamiliar terrain, could this exercise not be held as well 100 or 200 miles north where there is less population and where it would be less likely to cause any concern on the part of the population?


Mr. Speaker, if I might again be allowed to refer the hon. member to the press release that was made, we did indicate that the routes which have been selected are the most sparsely populated in that particular area.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Agriculture, I wish to ask his Parliamentary Secretary a question.
Has the government changed the policy of the Canadian Dairy Commission which had been established by the former Minister of Agriculture who said that the Canadian Dairy Commission could hardly operate without a commissioner representing milk purchasers and concerned with the sale of dairy products, since the recent appointment to the Canadian Dairy Commission indicates that no commissioner has been named to represent purchasers?


I take the liberty of suggesting to the hon. member that his question is rather argumentative. He could perhaps rephrase it, so that the Parliamentary Secretary may answer it.


With your leave, Mr. Speaker, I should like to rephrase my question.
Could the Parliamentary Secretary tell the House whether the Canadian Dairy Commis-

DEBATES	March 24, 1970
sion now intends to deprive itself of the services of a commissioner representing milk purchasers?


Mr. Speaker, at the present time as in the past years, three commissioners are members of the Canadian Dairy Commission. One resigned some two months ago. His post was filled and a press release was published to that effect. So nothing is changed.


I should like to put a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
Can the Parliamentary Secretary indicate whether the surpluses of fluid milk which have been mentioned yesterday, when the government policy was announced, will also be submitted to a policy of penalization?


Mr. Speaker, the representatives of milk producers associations have undertaken a study with the milk producers in order to solve this problem themselves, since it lies outside the federal jurisdiction, but is within the provincial jurisdiction.


Mr. Speaker, I have a complementary question.
Can the Parliamentary Secretary explain why, according to the new policy, the sum of $1.25 per hundredweight will be deductible at the plant on surpluses, even if the producers do not receive a subsidy?


My question is directed to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. It has to do with the judgments by the Supreme Court of Canada in the Queen v. Walker and the Queen v. M. E. Clark and Son Ltd., by which judgments the Supreme Court of Canada decided that the arbitrary order of the department that a 42-year perpetual lease could not be renewed were beyond the powers of the government or the department. Under the circumstances, will the minister say what will happen to those people who have lived either in Jasper National Park or in Banff National Park and who, under coercion, signed renewals and thereby through misunderstanding did away with their rights? Is the government going to place
March 24, 1970
them in the same position as those who fought successfully against the orders that were made?


Mr. Speaker, last Friday the Supreme Court handed down a judgment and the officials of the Department of Justice and of my department are now studying it. I will certainly have comments to make in the House as soon as a policy has been established following the judgment of the Supreme Court.


The Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the government cannot do this kind of thing. I ask the minister whether in view of this judgment, important in trimming down bureaucratic tyranny, the government will now give consideration to the orders respecting shack camps and temporary habitations in the national parks so that these places will not be subject to the orders which have been made during the past two years?


I should like to point out to the right hon. gentleman that the order in council relating to this matter of perpetual leases was passed by his own government. We are studying the matter now in all its aspects.


Oh, oh!


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. If the hon. gentleman was endeavouring to make a statement precisely opposite to the truth, he succeeded admirably today.


Hear, hear!


I should like to address a question to the Minister of Transport. I see he is not in his place today, though he is supposed to be here, and neither is the Minister of Supply and Services who sometimes answers for him.


Author!


I should like to make an apology. I have just been told that the minister's brother has died. Perhaps I can direct my question to the Prime Minister and he can take it as notice. Has the Minister of Transport received letters or briefs protesting a 21774-64
Inquiries of the Ministry threatened cessation of railway passenger service over a wide area of western Ontario, and will he use his good offices to have the service maintained until a thorough assessment of the situation can be made by the people concerned and by the transport department?


I will see that the question is conveyed to the minister responsible and that the hon. member is notified of the information we have.


I have a question for the minister in charge of the Wheat Board. Having regard to the widespread opinion among western farmers that the "lift" program will be largely ineffective would the minister consider withdrawing this plan either in whole or in part or making major alterations to it?


Certainly not. I believe the hon. member is altogether wrong in his assumption that farmers will not participate in this program. In my view there will be significant participation leading to a reduction in wheat acreage. This is very important in view of the fact that a recent report of the Dominion Bureau of Statistics indicates there might have been too great a switch into other grains.


Bearing in mind the situation of farmers who have already diversified and reduced wheat acreage, and the fact that farmers on one section or less would suffer severe loss of income under the proposed acreage reduction program, would the minister revamp this program in order that the quota might be more realistic in these cases?


Order. It seems to me the hon. member's supplementary is essentially a repetition of the original question.


In
view of the fact that the acreage reduction program as a whole is not being accepted by the farmers, and since there is a great deal of confusion about the regulations governing it, despite the nearness of the planting season,

5398	COMMONS
Inquiries of the Ministry can the minister tell the House whether he and his colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, will publish these regulations and let the House and the farmers know where they are heading?


Very full information about this program and its application to individual farmers was made available in a mail-out to every permitholder in the prairie provinces. It is, of course, not possible to put the regulations themselves in place until the items which are before this House, on which they would in part be founded, are approved.


Since the minister has himself changed the regulations by public announcement at public meetings since that pamphlet was produced, I again ask him if he will move with all speed to get these regulations into the hands of the public?


The minister indicated that an appeal board would be set up. Since many farmers propose to make their plans on the basis of any decisions which the appeal board might reach, may I ask whether the board will be established before seeding time and whether the cases before it will be disposed of in time for plans to be formulated?


Provision along those lines will be made in the regulations which are being developed. Adequate information has been made available to farmers which should guide them in their plantings, and of course the appeal board will be dealing only with difficult and particular applications of the regulations to certain factual situations. I do not think that should lead to any uncertainty on the part of the farmers.


What would happen in the case of a farmer who was hailed out last year, put his land into summerfallow the previous year, and is going to put a crop in this year? Is he going to sell no crop at all? Will no consideration be given to his needs in these critical circumstances?


In
light of the answers given by the minister, and of the letters and petitions which many

DEBATES	March 24, 1970
of us have received protesting against the acreage reduction program, would the hon. gentleman, in formulating these regulations, consider making provision under the new delivery quota system for farmers who had no wheat carried over, and is further consideration being given to the situation of farmers who reduced their wheat acreage and increased their summerfallow last year?


As far as the second part of the question is concerned, it has already been made clear what action will be taken to recognize additional summerfallow put in last year. Farmers without surpluses are at least in a position where they can grow non-wheat crops with some security, knowing that there will be less acreage in these crops and therefore the likelihood of a better market. Should they feel they must grow wheat, they can do so in secure knowledge of what the quota will be on the balance of their land.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question on the grain trade for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
In view of the fact that the Wheat Board has been selling barley, since the fall of 1969, for 78 cents and even for 76 cents per bushel, whereas they charged $1.07 per bushel in eastern Canada, could the minister tell the House whether or not the province of Quebec may expect to benefit from preferential export prices if it becomes independent as a result of the elections of April 29?


The Department of Transport has written to the chief engineer and to the owners of this ship asking for their full co-operation in having a Canadian officer of the Department of Transport on board during the trip.
We should also like to have a man responsible for the company in Ottawa during that trip in order that communication between the department and the owner of the ship will be established so that each will know what is happening.


I have a supplementary to the Parliamentary Secretary. Along with the information that the Parliamentary Secretary has provided the House, which was very welcome, I am wondering whether he might also tell us the exact date on which the Manhattan will be commencing its voyage, and also whether the Humble Oil Company has accepted full responsibility for any possible pollution damage, and what is the amount of the bond the company is putting up?


Mr. Speaker, I do not have all
the information requested by the hon. member right now. I know the department has asked the company to carry insurance of $6,500,000 in respect of responsibility. As to the other considerations, I will inform the hon. member.


I have a very brief supplementary. Perhaps the additional information that the Parliamentary Secretary does not have at his fingertips now could be provided to the House during the question period tomorrow, or perhaps the Parliamentary Secretary or the minister could make a statement on motions.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question to the Parliamentary Secretary. Can he advise the House also whether officials from the Department of Transport or other government departments will be accompanying the Manhattan on its voyage into the north and through the passage?


Mr. Speaker, as I have just said, an officer of the Department of Transport will be on board ship during the trip and a responsible representative of the company will remain here in Ottawa to establish communications.
DEBATES	5399
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, could I ask the Parliamentary Secretary whether the Humble Oil Company has informed the Department of Transport that it is prepared to accept all of the 24 conditions laid out by the minister as contained in the appendix to Hansard of Tuesday, March 17?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. The list of the conditions laid out by the Department of Transport was submitted to the company which has agreed to fulfil all of them.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the right hon. Prime Minister. May I ask him whether the government has received the report of the LeDain inquiry into drugs yet and, if not, how soon will it be forthcoming?


I understand, Mr. Speaker, that it will be forthcoming forthwith.


Mr. Speaker, I hope that the question I have for the Minister without Portfolio from Windsor will also be answered by forthcoming forthwith. Can be inform the House whether he has completed his study on foreign ownership in Canada, which I understand he was instructed to make by his colleagues in Cabinet, and whether he has already presented recommendations to cabinet to deal with the subject?


Mr. Speaker, earlier in the House the Prime Minister said a minister would be presenting a document in this area to the cabinet for study within a month. I understand that it is not proper to discuss matters in the
March 24, 1970

Inquiries of the Ministry House involving the business of Privy Council. If the Prime Minister feels it is appropriate to say more I am sure he will he happy to do so.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker-


He is right in line-yes, daddy.


Mr. Speaker, I was perfectly aware of some of the things the minister has said, but I do not appreciate his saying them in answer to the question, which was rather carefully worded. I did not ask him to tell me what happened in the Privy Council. I asked him whether he has completed the study and whether he has already presented recommendations to cabinet. I am not asking him what the recommendations were, what the conclusions were of what happened in cabinet; I just want to know whether it was done.


Mr. Speaker, even though I do not appreciate the form of the hon. member's question, I will attempt to give him a further answer. I think I can say there will be no problem in meeting the date that the Prime Minister mentioned in the House.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Revenue. In view of the statement by government customs officers that there is a dispute over holiday work schedules which could stop all traffic at the Peace Bridge this Easter weekend, I should like to ask the minister what steps he has taken to prevent customs officers from walking off their jobs at the Peace Bridge, leaving everything in chaos?


Mr. Speaker, officials of my department and of the Treasury Board as well as representatives of the Public Service Alliance of Canada will meet later this afternoon in order to find a solution to that problem.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the

Minister of Fisheries and Forestry. Has he been made aware of reported mercury contamination of certain types of fish in Lake St. Clair, Lake Erie and their tributaries? If so, is the contamination level high enough to be dangerous to humans, and has the source of the contamination been found?


The very brief answer is yes, Mr. Speaker. We have received an official report from the Ontario Research Foundation that there is mercury in certain species of fish, notably pickerel, in Lake St. Clair, and that the level of mercury is unacceptable in so far as human consumption is concerned. We have moved immediately to ban the export of these fish since all of it was going to the United States. We have determined two sources, both of them ehlor-alkali plants on the Canadian side in the vicinity of Sarnia. One has finished its conversion program and the other is in the process of correcting its cleanup procedures.


Mr. Speaker, this is a supplementary question-you might call it related; I do not know-to the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry. In view of the widespread public concern to get phosphates in detergents replaced by a non-polluting substance, would the minister make an early statement on motions about preliminary findings of the Fisheries Research Board as to the possibilities of sodium nitrilo tri-acetate, better known as NTA?


Order, please. I suggest the question is not supplementary and that it is only distantly related. Perhaps the minister might indicate whether he is prepared to make such a statement.


Mr. Speaker, we can make information along these lines available at a very early date.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister without Portfolio responsible for housing a question concerning the bid of the city of Montreal for the 1976 summer Olympic games. Would he please indicate to the House
March 24, 1970
whether Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation has agreed to provide up to $120 million for the construction of housing for athletes and officials of the games as intimated on page 48 of the city of Montreal brief to the International Olympic Association?


Mr. Speaker, no such agreement has been made. As a matter of fact, there has been no communication, to the best of my knowledge, with me or any of the officials of the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation about this proposal.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. From time to time he has reported that discussions were going on between the Eskimos of northern Quebec and representatives of the government of Canada, and I think the government of the province of Quebec. Can he now give a report on those discussions, because the Eskimos are greatly aroused and fear being transported to another jurisdiction?


Mr. Speaker, I know that Mr. Neville, representative of the federal government, has come back to Ottawa during the weekend. He is making his report. As soon as I get it I shall be pleased to make comments to the right hon. member for Prince Albert.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the widespread opposition toward this move, which is almost unanimous among the Eskimos in northern Quebec, and the fact that they do not want to be removed in any way, shape or form from the jurisdiction of the federal government, will the minister give consideration to having representations made by way of a submission to the Supreme Court to ascertain whether or not the government of Canada has the power to do what it is endeavouring to do to these Eskimos who are under the jurisdiction of the federal parliament? Will he have a reference made to the Supreme Court of Canada, in order to protect the rights of these people, concerning whether such action is legal?
Inquiries of the Ministry [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, it is a very important question. We are consulting the Eskimos, as I explained it several times. It is important to ensure that the basic rights of Eskimos regarding their language and their religion are protected. I can assure the right hon. gentleman that the aim of the policy followed by the government is to protect these rights. However, it should be recognized that these people are at the same time citizens of Quebec and this province being a part of Canada, they have rights both as Quebec and Canadian citizens.


Mr. Speaker, may I now ask the minister to answer the question. In view of the aroused feeling on the part of these Eskimos, will he be prepared to consider a reference to the Supreme Court of Canada to determine whether or not they can be legally turned over to provincial control, in whole or in part, against their wishes?


Mr. Speaker, I have already said to the House that we are considering the problem now and that we have sent a team to discuss the matter with the Eskimos. This team has returned during the weekend and will soon present us with a report. We will then tell the House what their findings are.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the fact that former employees of the Bank of Canada-and I am referring to ordinary employees, not to former governors-will not have their pensions increased under the Supplementary Retirement Benefits Act, will the minister discuss this matter with the officials of the Bank of Canada in the hope that their employees will be given the same treatment being given public servants generally?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance.

March 24, 1970

Inquiries of the Ministry In view of the recent cases involving bribery and corruption in the Royal Canadian Mint, will the government assure the House that a thorough investigation of the operations of the Mint will be started immediately and, if necessary, that a royal commission will be set up in order that the public interest may be fully protected?


Mr. Speaker, I think if my hon. friend will check the record he will find that a thorough investigation was carried out immediately that the possibility of some defalcation came to the notice of the Minister of Finance. As a result, two or more persons have been prosecuted. There has been a complete reorganization of the accounting procedures of the Mint and as a matter of fact, as the hon. member knows, it is now to be operated by a Crown corporation.


It is on that precise point, Mr. Speaker, that I wish a further investigation to be made. There seems to be some great discrepancy-


Order, please. The hon.
member should ask the question if he has a supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, would the minister look into this matter further to find out, if such is the case, why very strong steps are being taken to discipline minor members of the Mint when half a million dollars in gold currency disappeared and apparently the real parties have not been brought to justice?


Order. The hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond.


Mr. Speaker, I also have a question for the Minister of Finance. Is the minister aware that the Liberal leader in Quebec is attempting to ride into office on the back of the white paper on taxation?


Mr. Speaker, lots of people, like the Leader of the Opposition, ride on the back of the white paper.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. I do not think the original question was in order and I do not think a supplementary would be in order.


Mr. Speaker, may I take it that the answer was also out of order?


By all means.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address my question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the fact that United States accounting firms are advising clients not to invest in Canada because of the proposed tax reforms, will the minister advise the House if and when he will be withdrawing or changing those proposals in the white paper that are driving away investments in Canada?


In
the first two months of this year the exchange fund had to buy over $200 million in excess foreign exchange coming into Canada.


Order, please. May I bring to the attention of hon. members that it might not be appropriate at this time to embark on a debate on the white paper. Quite a few members appear to be anxious to ask questions.


['Mr. Speaker, I did discuss this matter earlier with the Secretary of State for External Affairs who had raised it with me. At that time we had received no information as to the mode and amount of compensation which is envisaged and this we are trying to establish. As of a few hours ago, however, we did not have it.']
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister without Portfolio from Saskatoon. In view of the fact that thousands of farmers will not survive economically under the "Lift" program introduced by the government, is the government now developing alternative programs for these people?


It seems to me we have a repetition of the question asked originally. Many members seem to be anxious to ask the same question. It has been asked on a number of occasions now. I suggest that perhaps we should go on to another subject.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister
March 24, 1970	COMMONS
say whether the government of Trinidad has been in touch with the government of Canada regarding the possible nationalization of the Bank of London and Montreal and, if so, have assurances been given that this would be done with full compensation?


Mr. Speaker, I did discuss this matter earlier with the Secretary of State for External Affairs who had raised it with me. At that time we had received no information as to the mode and amount of compensation which is envisaged and this we are trying to establish. As of a few hours ago, however, we did not have it.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Communications. We have heard a great deal in recent months from the Minister of Communications about his handling of the Post Office, but we have heard surprisingly little about Telesat Canada.


Order. The hon. member should ask his question.


Has the minister now a definite timetable for the launching of the satellite portion of the system and for implementation of the system itself? If he has a timetable, is the program on schedule?


I wonder whether this is not the type of question which might be placed on the Order Paper.


Mr. Speaker, this question is for the Prime Minister. Due to the present six-year record of high and acute national unemployment, will his administration now ask for more frequent reports from the Dominion Bureau of Statistics indicating the week-by-week level of unemployment instead of monthly reports as at present?


I am not sure this question is in order at this time. It would seem the hon.
DEBATES	5403
Inquiries of the Ministry member is making a request of the government which would normally be done by way of a question on the Order Paper.


I have a supplementary, Mr. Speaker. It would seem to me that I could receive a yes or no answer. I just asked if he would not do so.


The hon. member for
Cochrane.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State, I should like to put a question to the Prime Minister.

I wonder whether the Prime Minister would tell the House what the intention of the government is, particularly in view of the fourth report of the committee on Privileges and Elections, and whether or not Canada is to deem anyone to be a Canadian citizen whether he is a British subject or any other foreigner?


The hon. member is asking a question about a matter which relates to an order now before the House.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries. Now that the legislation to set up the Canadian Saltfish Corporation has completed its legislative passage through the other place, is the minister in a position to announce the name of the chairman of the corporation before the beginning of the new fiscal year? Can the minister also assure the House that the corporation will be established in time for its officers to establish our markets and market requirements for the current season?


Mr. Speaker, if the Saltfish Corporation legislation receives royal assent tomorrow, I hope we can name the chairman of the board before the end of the week.
March 24, 1970

Inquiries of the Ministry
HISTORIC SITES	Mr. Orlikow: I wonder if the minister
would give consideration to making a state-PRINCE EDWARD island-reported desig- ment on this subject in some detail after the nation OF province house AS	Easter recess, in view of the importance of
national shrine	summer employment to students?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. It is based on news reports following discussions that his Parliamentary Secretary had with ministers of the government of Prince Edward Island and specifically the report that the federal government is considering designating Province House as a national shrine. Can he advise if the Prince Edward Island legislature will still be allowed1 to function and also what other provincial Houses he has in mind for federalizing and enshrinement?


What about the one in
Quebec city?


Order.


have a question for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration arising out of the survey of summer employment which he tabled yesterday. I wish to ask the minister whether, in view of the finding that a very substantial percentage of the students who found employment last year were not able to find employment for the whole period for which they were available for work, and the serious effect this had on their ability to continue their education, the department is giving consideration to establishing programs to increase the possibility of providing full employment for the summer period?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we have that point under consideration. I mentioned it in reply to a previous question that the hon. member asked. We are attempting to accelerate our program of publicity and to work with employers in every way we can to extend the period of employment. My hon. friend will realize that with such a large influx of students into the labour market as will take place this summer, it may be very difficult to provide all the students, or even a high proportion of them with full-time employment.


I would be happy to consider making a statement after the recess.


Mr. Speaker, this is a related question which has to do with unemployment. Can the Minister of Manpower and Immigration tell us whether the department has now studied the effects of the closing of the Dunlop plant in Toronto on related industries, particularly the Yarmouth textile mill, and in the event of the closing of such plant can he tell us what alternative employment will be offered to the Dunlop employees and to those in related industries such as the Yarmou