Mr. Speaker, I would like to table, in both official languages, copies of a report on the establishment of mail delivery services to private homes in some localities.


Mr. Speaker, has the Minister of Finance yet made any decision on whether he will produce an early budget with a view to indicating the measures that the government proposes to take to fight unemployment and get the economy moving forward?


Mr. Speaker, no such decision has been made at this time.


May I ask the Minister of Finance whether he proposes to make an early decision and bring some plans forward shortly, or are we to go through the winter unemployment first before he decides to move?


Mr. Speaker, as usual-


Order, please.


As usual-


Order, please.


Apart from deciding whether to bring in a budget, has the government decided to decide on whether to get the economy moving?


Mr. Speaker, last week when the Steel Company of Canada announced price increases ranging up to 5.3 per cent I asked the Prime Minister whether he would consider asking the steel companies to withhold any increases until an investigation had been made in order to decide whether these increases were justified. The Prime Minister said he would consider the proposal. Has he given consideration to that suggestion, and what decision has been reached?


I am afraid not, Mr. Speaker. I asked that the question be followed up, but I have not given consideration to any suggestion which might have come my way. I have not seen any yet.


Since Algoma Steel has announced that it is raising its prices and other steel companies have indicated that they will follow suit, and in view of the announcement yesterday indicating that the profits of the four leading steel companies have increased by 27.8 per cent in the first nine months of this year, will the Prime Minister undertake to have this profit position investigated to see whether or not any price increase at all was required by the steel industry of Canada?


It was my understanding, subject to correction, that the Prices and Incomes Commission said it would investigate these rises in prices.


Will the Prime Minister urge the steel companies to withhold these price increases until the Prices and Incomes Commission has completed its report, and will that report be made public?


Mr. Speaker, as I answered in the first part of my reply, it depends on what consideration has been given. The element which I think would need to be elucidated is whether or not these prices increases are compatible with the principles accepted earlier this year by all that sector of the economy, to wit, whether they would increase the margin between their price increases and the cost increases. I do not as yet have that information. I know that their costs rose considerably because of the labour factor, but I am not aware of the increase or otherwise of the discrepancy.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister.
Does the Canadian government intend to ask U Thant, Secretary-General of the United Nations, to act as media-

November 24, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry
tor in order to obtain an agreement providing for the release of James Cross in exchange for that of the so-called political prisoners, as required by the FLQ?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think that the question raised by the hon. member for Shefford is of direct concern to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The latter has indicated that he was available to act as intermediary in some cases, but that the request should come from a government and not from a criminal organization.


Hear, hear.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
Since such a request can only come from the British or the Canadian government, does the latter intend to ask for the intervention of the Secretary-General of the United Nations?


I have already answered the question, Mr. Speaker.


Would the Prime Minister be prepared to make a statement on motions as to what further steps may be taken in order to secure the release of Mr. James Cross in view of reports in recent days that he may still be alive and that, hopefully, his freedom might be secured?


Mr. Speaker, the offer which was made much earlier by the government of Quebec and by this government to ensure the safe conduct of the kidnappers out of the country in return for the safe release of Mr. Cross still stands. If through one mediator or another the FLQ wants to discuss this with the government, we are still prepared to discuss it.


In
view of the apparent difficulty in establishing and maintaining effective liaison between the various police forces involved, has the Prime Minister personally checked into this to assure himself that there is effective liaison between the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the provincial police? Can he assure the House that this type of liaison exists and that the various police forces are working together as a team?


I discussed this with the Solicitor General and he might be able to report in greater detail in reply to a question directed to him. It is my understanding that an increased effort is being made to co-ordinate the work of the three police forces and that a special group has recently been constituted for this purpose.


I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. According to reports last week, the department will have to spend $1,200,000 on construction at Canadian Forces Base, Kingston, to facilitate the establishment there of the radar and communications school now housed on the Canadian Forces Base at Clinton. Will the minister not consider having this school remain at Clinton where there are already adequate facilities, along with other training programs which are being considered by various departments, both federal and provincial?


I suggest to the hon. member that his question is in the form of a submission or representation to the minister; I do not think it is acceptable as a question at this time. If there is urgency, the hon. member might give notice of his intention to discuss the matter at ten o'clock.


Ten o'clock, Mr. Speaker.


A supplementary question-


Order. The hon. member obviously
cannot ask a supplementary to a question which has been ruled unacceptable.


My question is quite urgent, Mr. Speaker, because some of the facilities are being transferred at the present time. Could the minister give us an assurance that no more fixtures will be moved from the Canadian Forces Base at Clinton until a final disposition concerning the base has been made?


Order. I have already suggested to the hon. member that his important question might well be debated at the time of adjournment. I am sure he would wish to ask his supplementary at that time.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence whether, in light of the use of the armed forces in the province of Quebec, his department has reached any conclusion that the standing forces as they now exist are inadequate even for the purpose to which I have alluded?
Hon. Donald S. Macdonald (Minister of National
Defence): No, sir, we have not come to that conclusion. However, an assessment has now been made in connection with that operation, and the results of this assessment will undoubtedly find their way into the white paper on defence policy some time next year.


I have a supplementary question for the Minister of National Defence arising out of the minis-

November 24, 1970

ter's earlier answer. He says there will be an assessment of the adequacy of the armed services. Can he advise the House whether this is a result of some criticism by NATO or the result of what has taken place in recent days in the province of Quebec?


I can confirm there was no criticism from NATO.


Oh, oh!


And there was no criticism from any part of the country about the response of the armed forces. In fact, even Claude Ryan thought they had done rather well.


Hear, hear!


I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. Is the minister in a position to announce any plans, if such plans exist, with regard to an increase in training for the reserve forces during 1971, either in numbers or in the length of courses given?


No, sir, not at this time.


Now that we know the two destroyers will be launched in the St. Lawrence in the next few days, can the Minister of National Defence tell us how much additional money is involved and, if not, when will he be able to give the House this information?


The program is currently being reviewed. As a matter of fact, negotiations are taking place between the representatives of the government and the two contractors concerned with regard to the contracts. It is expected that the result of the negotiations and the final assessment in this regard will be available by about the end of the year.
* *
*


My question is directed to the Minister of Finance. In view of reports that the banks have made tremendous profits, more especially the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, up by 13 per cent in one year, and the Canadian National Bank, up by 15.7 per cent, will the minister ask the banks to roll back their interest rates so that their profits may fall within the 6 per cent guideline suggested by the government?

Inquiries of the Ministry MANPOWER


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration.
With a view to enabling farmers' wives to contribute to a larger extent to the success of agriculture, has the minister looked into the possibility of purchasing for those ladies training courses from the province of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, I shall have to take this question as notice.


Mr. Speaker, my question was for the Minister of Transport who I thought was supposed to be in the House today. In his absence may I redirect it to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development since he may have a personal interest in the matter. My question arises out of statements made at the International Aviation Council meeting last week with regard to the alleged lack of navigational and landing aids in the northern and Arctic regions. Would the minister confer with his counterpart to ascertain what action the Department of Transport is taking to provide adequate navigational and landing aids to ensure the safety of those travelling by air in Arctic regions?


Mr. Speaker, we passed legislation concerning control of navigation in the north last winter. I am also very much aware that the Minister of Transport is devoting a lot of his attention to the problem of navigation in the north, and I will convey to him what the hon. member has said today.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Now that the ministerial committee meeting with the ministers' counterparts in the United States is over, I wonder whether he would indicate when he, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce and the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources will be making statements on the various subjects dealt with in the intergovernmental talks during the last two days?


Mr. Speaker, I believe that the Secretary of State for External Affairs will be tabling a communique tomorrow.

November 24, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry NORTHERN AFFAIRS


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. When are the regulations respecting land use operations in the Yukon Territory and Northwest Territories coming into effect?


Soon, Mr. Speaker.


Does the hon. member have a supplementary question?


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the required posting of $100,000 performance bonds by the two oil companies doing work on Banks Island in the Arctic, why has this regulation not been applied to all companies doing similar work in the Arctic area?


Order. I would not think that this question as asked is in order.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, who is doing so well today, whether he has had discussions with the government of the province of Alberta with a view to providing either a dam or other works in the Athabasca-Peace delta to compensate for loss of water caused by the Bennett dam?


Mr. Speaker, this is a very complex problem in which two provincial governments are involved as well as the federal government since it is responsible for Indians who live in this area. We have initiated consultations with Indians. I personally met with their counsel who intends to take action against the British Columbia Hydro Commission about damages they suffered and I think this may be the procedure in the circumstances, because the Bennett dam was built in British Columbia, not in Alberta.


In light of the fact that it has now been suggested by knowledgeable engineers that there cannot be enough water released from the Bennett dam to make this compensation, will the minister be prepared to cooperate with the government of Alberta, if it should ask for aid for that purpose, of course, in arranging for some
works to be constructed in the area in question so that these people, including the Indians in question, can be helped?


Mr. Speaker, I was in Edmonton two weeks ago and I discussed that problem with the Indians of Alberta. It was agreed that a meeting will soon be held between the Alberta premier, the president of the Indians in that province and myself to discuss all the problems. It was specifically mentioned that we should examine the problem of Indians in the Athabasca area.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that this Peace River-Athabasca delta problem has further reduced the ability of the Indian people in the area to make a living, would the minister be willing now to respond meaningfully to the Alberta government proposal to settle the question of the Wood Buffalo Park boundaries so that any industrial development that might take place would then be able to proceed?


Mr. Speaker, we have a well-established policy on the matter and I do not think that it would be proper at the moment to reduce the present number of territories for conservation purposes. However, we have indicated to the Alberta government that we are ready to consider an exchange, if necessary, provided that our national parks system would not be the loser.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration who is in charge of the Wheat Board. In view of the widespread conjecture and concern of Prairie farmers that there will be little or no final payment on the 1970-71 barley pool owing to the large cash forward sales at the lower prices prevailing last spring, would the minister inform the House whether or not this will likely be the situation?


No, Mr. Speaker, I cannot inform the House at this stage. It has been indicated before that until a pool has been closed or a calculation made, this information is not available.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the considerable amount of space in terminals at Thunder Bay, and in view of complaints at a number of local points of a lack of boxcars to move grain forward, would the minister assure the House that the railway companies will provide adequate transportation in the near future to improve this situation?

November 24, 1970


Mr. Speaker, the grain in place at Thunder Bay is at about the ideal level for maximum working efficiency. There is a significant progress in maintaining space in elevators throughout the Prairie region in line with what is really the new objective, to see that there is space there and that congestion does not get in the way of proper handling of the grain.


Mr. Speaker, could the minister assure the House that the procedure under the block system whereby cars are supposed to be allocated following shipping orders is working effectively?


Mr. Speaker, I can say that the block system seems to be working very well indeed. Of course there is some concern at particular points about the allocation of cars. I should remind hon. members that a portion of the decision as to where cars are allocated within the share allocated to a specific elevator company belongs to the elevator company.


Mr. Speaker, could the minister inform the House when legislation based on his October 29 proposal for grain income stabilization will be introduced?


No, Mr. Speaker, I cannot put an exact time on that at this point.


Mr. Speaker, will the minister inform the farmers of the full details of the plan and provide adequate opportunity for them to make representations on the proposals before the legislation is finally enacted?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, it certainly is our intention, and this has already been made known to producer organizations, to welcome representations, and I am inviting them directly from all producers in moving toward final details of the plan. Those details which have not been finalized have not been finalized simply because we wanted the full advice of producers before coming to such a decision.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Agriculture, I wish to direct a question to his Parliamentary Secretary. In the light of the report tabled yesterday by the federal Department of Agriculture before the agricultural conference, held in Ottawa, to the effect that the net farm income, in Canada, will increase by approximately $120 million in 1971, and decrease by more than $10.6 million in Quebec, does the minister intend to review his dairy policy and
Inquiries of the Ministry
finally grant increased amounts to the dairy producers of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, in reply to the question asked by the hon. member, I must say that the policy of the Department of Agriculture concerning dairy products is presently under consideration, and when the department has taken a decision, we shall inform hon. members.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Last week I asked him whether his government would reconsider its decision with regard to the study on the harnessing of the Bay of Fundy tides for power in view of decreasing interest rates and the anticipated heavy unemployment in the Atlantic provinces. The Prime Minister stated he would look into the matter. Has he had an opportunity to look into the matter and is he able to indicate the position of the government?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. There is no provision for reconsidering this matter at this time.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the minister in charge of the Wheat Board. In view of the seriously depressed price situation in regard to live hogs, would the minister tell us what plans he has to rectify this disastrous situation since it is a direct result of his diversification program in relation to grain?


Mr. Speaker, quite clearly this was not a result of the diversification program. If the hon. member knew his local facts he would know the move was well under way before the diversification program, but it is also true, of course, that the stabilization program which we propose should have a very good indirect effect on the hog industry.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration responsible to the House for the Canadian Wheat Board. With respect to the high level talks

November 24, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry
presently going on between the Canadian and United States governments, can the minister indicate whether the two governments are discussing the matter of arriving at a formula to help stabilize the International Grains Arrangement?


Mr. Speaker, these conversations touched upon very many matters of interest between the two countries. That subject did come up as well.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Manpower and Immigration whether the papers he tabled setting forth his stabilization program are to be regarded as government policy or simply proposals for discussion?


Mr. Speaker, the papers tabled indicate a plan of action which of course the government is indicating it would be willing to support. In some respects, of course, the proposals are not complete in final detail because there is very much elaboration which is to take place after discussions with producers and producer organizations, and of course we, as always, are ready to listen to any reasonable alternative proposals which seem to improve the plan.


Mr. Speaker, this question is for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In view of the report by Mr. Sedgwick tabled last week, is the minister in the near future planning to institute regulations so that people coming from iron curtain countries to Canada and who wish to immigrate here may be processed in Canada and therefore be on the same basis as would immigrants from other countries?


Mr. Speaker, the whole question of the matters arising out of Mr. Sedgwick's report and related issues is under consideration, and a decision will be taken in due course.


['Mr. Speaker, the department should reply to questions tomorrow and I am sure that the minister will be pleased to answer this one.']
Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question. In view of the backlog of interviews, inquiries and appeals, what immediate steps does the minister propose to take to solve these problems?


Order, please. It would seem to me that the hon. member is asking a question which should be answered by way of a general statement. Unless the minister can reply very quickly, I would think the answer should be given by way of a statement on motions.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs this question. What effective arrangements have been made by the federal government to ensure that Canada's $2 million in emergency relief will be properly distributed to the survivors of the East Pakistan catastrophe, and are any drugs for the treatment and prevention of cholera and typhoid part of our relief shipments?


Mr. Speaker, the department should reply to questions tomorrow and I am sure that the minister will be pleased to answer this one.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Finance whether, in the interests of economy, he would warn his colleague the Minister of National Defence to guard against such wasteful practices as the moving of defence installations from places like Clinton to Kingston?


I will make representations.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the statement by the President of the Ontario Medical Association that Canada's present abortion law is now more restrictive than before the so-called reforms came into effect and that the required procedures now make the obtaining of an abortion more difficult, can the Prime Minister inform the House whether the government will introduce new legislation in this field and, if so, when?


Order, please. I would remind the hon. member that this question was asked in similar terms a few days ago.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry. In

November 24, 1970

view of the recent strong condemnation of the United States voiced by the minister and by the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources in relation to pollution of the Great Lakes, can the minister advise the House what steps have been taken, if any, concerning the industries at Dryden, Ontario and Saskatoon which are causing extensive pollution of Manitoba waters.


Mr. Speaker, neither industry has polluted the Great Lakes system in any way. However, we have had meetings with the companies concerned and they have stopped dumping mercury into the adjoining waters.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. In view of the charge by the Canadian Electrical Manufacturers Association that foreign competition is creating undue hardship and high unemployment in the Canadian electronic industry, has the government made any move to investigate charges that Japan and Taiwan are dumping television sets in this country and, if so, will any tariff relief be granted to Canadian manufacturers?


Mr. Speaker, anyone who is injured can allege dumping and there is a procedure whereby national revenue looks into the matter forthwith; we have an anti-dumping tribunal to look into such matters.


Mr. Speaker, would the Minister of Finance tell the House whether he has received any such representations from the Canadian Electrical Manufacturers Association.


I have not myself, but I could not answer for the Minister of National Revenue in this regard. However, I shall make inquiries.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Could the Prime Minister inform the House whether or not the government is considering acting on the recommendation of the Liberal policy convention that Canada declare itself a nuclear-free zone.


Well, Mr. Speaker, there will be a white paper on defence policy in which all these subjects will be considered.
Inquiries of the Ministry FINANCE


["I regret to interrupt the hon. member but it is my duty at this time, pursuant to Standing Order 40, to inform the House that the questions to be raised tonight at the time of adjournment are as follows: the hon. member for Huron (Mr. McKinley)-national defence; the hon. member for Fraser Valley West (Mr. Rose)-air transport; the hon. member for Bumaby-Richmond-Delta (Mr. Goode)-energy, mines and resources.\nIt being five o'clock, the House will now proceed to the consideration of private members' business, as listed on today's Order Paper, namely public bills, private bills, notices of motions.\nCOMMONS DEBATES_____________________November 24, 1970\nPublic Bills"]
Mr. Speaker, this question is for the Minister of Finance. It concerns some of the interesting activities of the Bank of Canada in the last several weeks. In light of the rapidly expanding money supply, I wonder whether the minister could tell us if the Bank of Canada is acting to expand the economy or is it supporting the Canadian dollar in the international market in order to maintain a subpar value for the Canadian dollar vis-a-vis the United States dollar?


Mr. Speaker, with regard to transactions on the exchange market, these become known only at the end of the month when figures are published, and my hon. friend can understand the reason for this. What has happened over the past eight or nine months is that the money supply has been increased by the Bank of Canada deliberately in order to stimulate the economy along with the steps that were taken on the fiscal side by the government.


Would the side effect of this be to maintain the Canadian dollar at a slightly subpar value in relation to the United States dollar in the hope that the Canadian dollar would soon be pegged at some value just below the United States dollar?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think the reasoning that my hon. friend has brought forward is necessarily correct. The reason for the expansion in the money supply is the obvious one I have stated previously, that we are expanding the economy and have a much easier monetary policy than we had a year ago or eight months ago.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the minister responsible for the Post Office. My question was originally directed to the minister on Thursday, November 19. I would like to remind him of it. In view of complaints from postal workers that sums approaching $165 in income tax have been deducted from retroactive pay amounting to $574 awarded to postal workers will the minister undertake to determine if the amounts deducted at source are excessive?


Following that question, Mr. Speaker, I asked officials of my department to check whether errors had been made in issuing these cheques. It seems that such is the case and I have asked the Departments of National Revenue and Supply and Services to inquire into this matter and remedy the situation.

November 24, 1970
Inquiries of the Ministry NATIONAL CAPITAL COMMISSION


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
As the Chairman of the National Capital Commission has announced a ban on the use of snowmobiles on federal park grounds and in view of the announcement by the Quebec Minister without Portfolio in charge of inter-governmental relations that a decision has been made and that the federal government must abide by Quebec policy in regard to such parks, may I ask the minister whether the government has decided to accept the Quebec decision?


Mr. Speaker, the National Capital Commission does not come under my jurisdiction.
Concerning operations within national parks, snowmobile policy is well known.


I would like to direct a question to the minister in charge of housing. In view of the fact that over the weekend a group has placed much stress on the problems of urban growth and the necessity for reaching early solutions, and in light of the fact that the minister has given a grant to the Vancouver inner city group to follow through with an attempt to find solutions, has the minister taken any immediate steps to see that initiative is taken by other large centres in Canada in this regard?


All such initiatives are being considered by us. Some can be encouraged and some cannot. I rather think the question is somewhat general but I will be glad to discuss it with the hon. member privately if I have missed the substance of the question.


To get into the specific area, in view of the fact that the same group-


What group?


-indicated that there should be cities participating in federal-provincial conferences, is it the intention of the minister to approach his counterparts in the provinces in order to feel them out in this particular area?


Our views are already very clear on that. In fact there have been some informal discussions with various provincial ministers to continue to test their receptivity to tri-level discussions. That position has not changed.


You should send Hellyer out.


Would the minister take this opportunity to answer the question that was asked him from the back bench while he was on his feet as to whether or not they are Liberal groups?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the minister in charge of housing.
In view of the emergency situation that exists in the field of housing in Montreal as a result of the proposed demolition of 4,000 housing units for the building of the East-West freeway, would the minister tell the House whether he has entered into any discussions with the provincial authorities in order to correct this critical situation, and what decisions were made in this respect?


It seems to me that this question was asked a few days ago. If I am wrong, perhaps the minister can answer it.


few days ago I did make reference to some facts and figures on that. However, to repeat the answer in general let me say that we are consulting about this matter. We have poured great amounts of money into additional housing starts in the city of Montreal. We are aware of the situation which the hon. member describes and we will do everything we can to work with the provincial government to try to alleviate that distress.


My question was put to the minister to make sure that all the necessary means are taken to ensure that these displaced persons and families will find new houses when they are displaced or before.


I wish to direct my question to the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of the many representations to the government concerning the sale of Ryerson Press to McGraw-Hill, is the government engaged in any discussion on this matter or is it considering any measures to assist in retaining Canadian control over this operation?


Order. I am sure the hon. member will recognize that that question was asked in exactly these terms on a number of occasions. However, if I am wrong, perhaps the Prime Minister might wish to reply.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, there have been new representations on this matter within recent days, and I thought the Prime Minister might like to comment in view of these representations, particularly from the Liberal convention.
November 24, 1970


I should like to address a question to the Minister without Portfolio in charge of the Post Office. Could the minister indicate to the House when all employees of the Post Office will receive their retroactive pay resulting from the recent postal settlement?


Mr. Speaker, although these cheques were to be sent out within 60 days, it seems that as early as the end of the first month they were being mailed out. Most of the employees have already received them.

tEnglish]


should like to direct a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. As he is well aware, a goodly proportion of those who are unemployed and will be unemployed this winter do not have the necessary academic qualifications to qualify for vocational training. I should like to ask the minister whether his department is making a particular drive this winter to assist these unemployed people to achieve the necessary academic qualifications?


A portion of the additional funds which were made available recently, as well as the main portion of the budget for training, is of course devoted to basic skill training with a view to dealing with this particular problem. Of course the object of the department is to deal as much as possible with all of the applicants in a balanced way to produce the best over-all result.


I have a supplementary question for the minister. Has he or will he undertake to enter into discussions with the provinces with a view to making available federal buildings, such as National Defence buildings, to handle the upgrading program in anticipation of the high unemployment this winter?


I have looked into the question of the problem which the provinces have in regard to facilities. Facilities of a temporary nature are not normally adequate for the more complicated forms of training. For the basic skill training which requires much simpler facilities, those seem to be available in adequate supply.


Would the minister make a statement on motions at an early date indicating how many persons it is proposed to upgrade in terms of basic academic skills during the coming winter?


A report can and will be made in the ordinary course after the completion of the year or the
Inquiries of the Ministry
placing of the full budget of the department. Until that is done it is impossible to put an exact number upon it because within the available finances more persons can in fact be trained if basic training is used than are trained if more expensive, higher skill courses are called for.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will the government's proposed legislation regarding old age pensions be introduced in time so that any increase provided therein can be included in the December pension cheques?


The exact date will be known to the House when the legislation is introduced.


Will that be soon?


Order, please.


My question is for the Minister of Finance. In light of the estimate of the Dominion Bureau of Statistics that in real terms the gross national product may only rise 2.7 per cent for 1970, which would be the lowest in more than a decade, is the government going to announce tax relief measures soon in order to stimulate the economy?


If the government were contemplating such a program of tax relief it would be announced in a budget in the House.
*[DOT] * *


My
question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the news reports that Mr. John Biggs, head of the Washington state department of ecology, has announced that his department is going to hold hearings on the proposal by Seattle City Light Company to flood 6,000 acres of the Skagit valley in British Columbia, and in view of the fact that Mr. Biggs has made public his intention to ask the British Columbia government and the federal government to participate, will the minister assure the House that the government will submit a brief in opposition to any such flooding?


Order paper.

November 24, 1970
Public Order Act, 1970 EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


1 should like to direct a question to the right hon. Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. Will the Prime Minister inform the House if it is the intention of the Secretary of State for External Affairs to advise the British government with respect to the conduct of its policy on arms sales to South Africa on his scheduled visit to London commencing November 26, 1970?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I think the Canadian government's position on that matter is well known, and on his next trip to London, the Secretary of State for External Affairs will certainly restate the government's view.


My question is directed to the Minister of National Defence. In light of statements made in this House by his predecessor that employees of Canadian Forces Bases who had been declared surplus as a result of base closures would receive six months notice before employment was terminated, can the minister give the House an assurance that this policy is still in effect?


Mr. Speaker, I will have to make inquiries to see specifically what the hon. member is driving at.


The House resumed from Monday, November 23, 1970, consideration of the motion of Mr. Turner (Ottawa-Carle-ton) for the third reading of Bill C-181, to provide temporary emergency powers for the preservation of public order in Canada.
The hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowi-chan-The Islands had between 30 and 60 seconds left to his credit when we adjourned last evening.


Mr. Speaker, when the House rose I was pointing out to the Minister of Justice (Mr. Turner) that it was not good enough for him to be attending seminars and meetings of

law societies to declaim about individual liberty and civil rights. He has an opportunity now to demonstrate that this is not mere empty rhetoric.
When the debate began the minister accused some of us in this corner of shrieking for our political lives. I want to say, Mr. Speaker, that there is something worse than shrieking for your political life and that is shirking for your political life. The Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) made it perfectly clear yesterday that the only reason the government is not agreeing to the setting up of a tribunal to ensure that there may be no abouse of the powers granted by Parliament is that the government of Quebec, and particularly the attorney general of Quebec, wants these extraordinary powers without any safeguards.
The position taken by the Minister of Justice demonstrates clearly that the man who has been held out as the Prince Valiant of the Liberal party now stands revealed as the spineless wonder of the just society.


Oh, oh!


Hear, hear!


Order, please. As we adjourned last evening, the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands had just moved an amendment to the motion that Bill C-181 be read a third time, proposing that the bill be referred back to the Committee of the Whole for the purpose of reconsidering clause 12 with a view to the inclusion therein of a provision for the establishment of an independent body to review the administration under the said bill.
I indicated I had some reservations about the regularity of this amendment. I should immediately put the hon. member's mind at ease and assure him that, although I still have serious reservations about the procedural aspect of the proposed amendment, I will put it to the House so that hon. members may have an opportunity to debate it and in due course, vote on it. Similar amendments were debated at length in Committee of the Whole House in relation to clause 12 and to clause 14 of the bill; I would think it would be the wish of the House that similar latitude be allowed at this stage of proceedings. A bill such as this one, which deals with individual rights and fundamental freedoms, should be discussed as freely as possible and should be given the benefit of the liberal interpretation of the rules and precedents.
As hon. members know, debate on third reading should be confined to the contents of the bill. This principle is enounced in May's 17th edition at page 572. May states further that reasoned amendments which raise matters not included in the provisions of the bill are not permissible. Citation 418 of Beauchesne's fourth edition reads as follows:
All amendments which may be moved on a second reading of a bill may be moved on the third reading with the restriction that they cannot deal with any matter which is not contained in the bill.
At the third reading stage a motion is always in order to refer the bill back to a committee for the purpose of reconsidering any clause thereof. It is doubtful, however,
November 24, 1970

that it is procedurally correct to refer a bill back to a committee with instructions to include a provision which is not included in the clause which it is proposed to amend and which in fact goes beyond the purview of the clause. If in fact the proposed addition goes beyond the scope of the clause it seeks to amend, it becomes a substantive motion and cannot be moved by way of amendment.
These are general principles which apply on third reading. I respectfully suggest to hon. members that these principles should not be deemed to have been altered or amended in any way by the Chair's action in putting to the House the motion proposed by the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands.
With this caveat I will, therefore, put the motion as follows:
That Bill C-181 be not now read a third time, but that it be referred back to the Committee of the Whole House for the purpose of reconsidering clause 12 with a view to the inclusion therein of a provision for the establishment of an independent body to review the administration under the said bill.


Question.


Is the House ready for the question?


Mr. Speaker, the object of Bill C-181, An Act to provide temporary emergency powers for the preservation of public order in Canada, now at one of its most important stages, is to replace the War Measures Act now in force since mid-October as a result of the kidnappings of Messrs. Cross and Laporte. It is unfortunate that in Canada, in times of peace, the government should have been forced by circumstances to apply that statute in order to preserve public order.
Increasing social and economic injustices of all kinds finally breed public disturbances capable of doing considerable damage to our society.
The disturbances we are now witnessing in Canada are such that they could seriously harm the interests of Canadians and particularly those of Quebeckers.
I recently attended a reception given by one of the Canadian representatives at the United Nations and I was deeply humiliated and sorry to be asked the following question by several delegates from foreign countries: What is happening in that pacific country of Canada that did so much for world peace? Now it is fighting terrorism.
Mr. Speaker, if we are now afflicted by troubles, it is because authorities have been falling short of their duty for a number of years in failing to take the necessary steps to ensure a fair distribution of wealth in our country. Our economic system is defective, because some people who have an urgent need of money to meet their basic requirements have no purchasing power.
For many years, we have been warned by competent persons that if we did not reform our economic system,
Public Order Act, 1970
we would suffer from very serious social troubles. Only three years ago, American economists and sociologists, in a letter addressed to the President of the United States, stated that the first condition to avoid an unprecedented economic and social disorder would be to secure for each individual a guaranteed minimum income.
Since our country is close to the United States, obviously the warning served to Americans applies also to Canadians. Monopolies, trusts, economic dictatorship, all these keep on ruling the roost under the benevolent eye of this government. Financiers keep on controlling this country's money supply and credit and thus, they distribute the lifeblood through the economic system whose life is in their hands.
There, Mr. Speaker, is the main cause of the disorders that we live through and which also create misery and unemployment, as well as a lack of confidence from the younger elements of our present society.
So far, government authorities have met this disorder by displaying police machinery. Certainly it is the duty of the state to protect its citizens against aggression by those who threaten its legitimacy. However, it is also its duty to control the greediness of those who squeeze the people, of the big financiers who have abusively increased interest rates, one of the main causes of inflation and unemployment.
A social and economic situation cannot be remedied the way a bomb is defused. In a certain sense, when democratic governments have to rely on police forces to restore the prosperity and security of the country, it means they are gradually losing the game.
When groups of citizens, even if they are a minority, come to contest the legitimacy of government and to doubt the ability of public institutions to govern properly, when they resort to violence and disorder, it is a sign that something is wrong with the system.
This is an indication that it is most urgent that we should pass from the mere denunciation of the effects of violence to the consideration of its causes.
There are several other causes of disorder at the present time. A society is indeed in a permanent state of disorder when it tolerates the existence of the greatest number of unemployed in our entire history, half of them in the province of Quebec, lack of employment opportunities for millions of young people leaving colleges and universities, different standards of living from one region to the other in Quebec, especially in the rural regions which are not sharing in the affluence of large cities, inadmissible waste within the framework of an austerity program, useless delay in the reform of our fiscal and financial system-reform which would be possible without increasing personal income tax-nearly complete disorder in the development of our urban centres contaminated by pollution, noise, slums and poverty pockets.
[DOT] (3:10 p.m.)
It is unconceivable in this so-called era of evolution and progress that modern man, so clever in other fields, should want to remain today the salve of his own crea-

November 24, 1970
Public Order Act, 1970
tion and should be unable to free himself from a financial system which shows flaws and inefficiency.
According to Bossuet:
The greatest disorder of the mind is to believe certain things because we want them to be such and not because we have seen what they are.
What hidden power forces our governments to maintain such a financial dictatorship? The true question is: who directs this country's destiny?
Another major cause of disorder is the broadcasting of television programs which show day after day acts of violence to the children. This has been going on for 20 years on the CBC, a Crown corporation costing millions of dollars every year to the Canadian taxpayers. We teach violence and, of course, we get violence as a result.
I remember that few months ago, a group of people had been invited by the CBC to see a film in a movie-house of the Ottawa area. Among those present, there were a judge, a lawyer, a policeman, a clergyman and a politician who, in the circumstances, was your humble servant. The film being shown was "Z", which was presented for the first time in Canada. At the end of the representation, we were all invited to give our comments. Since it was a film on dissent, that the dissenters had finally resorted to violence, and there had even been assassinations of politicians, each of us contributed his comments. I remember that when the moderator asked me what was my view of the events depicted in the film and what my reaction would have been, had they taken place in Canada, I replied that everything seen in the film also happened in Canada now, only more hypocritically, and that it had been so for some time.
It is sad for parents who for many years made all kinds of sacrifices to bring up their children properly, give them good principles enabling them to live in society-paying the high price of this education-to see all those principles and training destroyed in all kinds of ways on radio and television. Everything likely to destroy, distort ethics and the highest human values, to hold them up to ridicule, is highlighted on the airwaves, and enters our homes to poison the minds of our children from their earliest years. However, only a very minimal part of broadcasting time is used to show the other side of the coin. Our young people should be shown programs which could help the parents to educate their children.
Television is a wonderful invention which could be very useful to society if the government would assume its responsibilities by giving to this means of communication a better orientation.
The authorities let agitators promote their views on the airwaves, stir up the fire of violence, and when this fire is making havoc, the government uses radical means which strike people with dismay, and make individuals fear for their liberties.
It is unfortunate for the province of Quebec that such legislation be passed. At first sight, the situation prevailing presently in Quebec seems to justify the darkest predictions.

According to the explanations given by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Turner) in answer to questions asked by some members of the opposition, this legislation is solely intended for the province of Quebec.
The Minister of Justice said last night, as recorded at page 1393 of Hansard, and I quote:
This bill does not deal with force used or crime used to overthrow a government in Quebec with respect to the rest of Canada, whether by the FLQ or another association that might succeed it.
And he added:
I agree with the hon. member, but the target of this bill is the FLQ.
Let me remind you of a speech which a former RCMP Sec