I have the honour to inform the House that a communication has been received which is as follows:
Government House
Ottawa
30 March 1971
Sir,
I have the honour to inform you that the Honourable Roland A. Ritchie, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Governor General, will proceed to the Senate Chamber today, the 30th of March, at 5.30 p.m. for the purpose of giving Royal Assent to certain bills.
I have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient servant, Louis-Fremont Trudeau Brigadier General
Assistant Secretary to the Governor General


I have the honour to inform the House that a message has been received from the Senate informing this House that the Senate have passed Bill S-13, an act to amend the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Convention Act, to which the concurrence of this House is desired.


Fourth, fifth and sixth reports of Standing Committee on Veterans Affairs-Mr. Cullen.
[Editor's Note: For text of above reports, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
Mr. Speaker, I have an announcement with respect to dairy policy for the year starting April 1, 1971. The Canadian Dairy Commission has been authorized to pay subsidy on manufacturing milk and cream, under its quota system, at the same rate as in the year just ending. This is $1.25 per 100 pounds of milk testing 3.5 per cent butterfat, or 35.71 cents per pound of butterfat.
The prices at which the commission offers to purchase major dairy products in support of Canadian prices will, for the present, remain at existing levels. It will be recalled that the prices for skim milk powder and Cheddar cheese were each advanced four cents per pound on February 8 last, bringing the present rates to 24 cents per pound for powder and 51 cents for cheese. The butter support price continues at 65 cents per pound.
While actual prices received by producers from the market are a matter of provincial jurisdiction, these changes will mean that in the forthcoming dairy year there will be a significant increase in market prices to producers for industrial milk compared with those in effect at the start of this dairy year. There is a holdback from payments to producers toward the cost of disposing of surplus dairy products which have to be exported.
There was a change in this procedure during the past year with the adoption in Ontario and Quebec of a system of market-sharing quotas for all producers supplying milk for manufacturing use. With that change the Commission paid producers in those provinces the full rate of subsidy and a levy was made from the market payment and remitted to the commission.
This arrangement will continue during the coming year. In provinces where producers are now under market-sharing quotas, or at any time during the year when other provinces may come under the system, producers will receive subsidy at the full rate for the quantity of milk or cream for which they are eligible. This, of course, is conditional on a levy being taken from the market payment by the provincial board and remitted to the commission. In provinces not under market-sharing quotas there will continue to be a levy or holdback from the subsidy payments.
The major surplus Canadian dairy product is skim milk powder. The cost of disposing of surpluses, and the rate of levy necessary to finance that cost, is related primarily to the price which can be secured for skim milk powder exports.
Starting a year ago there has been a marked improvement in that price from the levels which prevailed previously. It is difficult for the commission at this time to estimate the price which will prevail for skim milk powder exports during the coming year and, in consequence, its costs of disposing of surpluses and the rate of levy from producer payments necessary to finance them.
It will be at least a month, and probably more, before this situation is clarified.
In the meantime, the rates of levy or holdback from producer payments will, with one exception, continue at present levels. The only change, for the present, is that the levy of 1 cent per pound of butterfat on cream

March 30, 1971
Dairy Policy 1971
deliveries by a producer up to his quota will be discontinued.
The commission, however, may later adjust these rates when it is better able to estimate its costs of surplus disposal for the coming year.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the minister for providing me with a copy of this announcement well before the House opened. Those dairy producers who have been holding their collective breath waiting for this announcement may now let their breath out slowly because there will not be much of a change as a result of this announcement. Certainly there will be no help to counteract the increased costs which they are experiencing every year.
It is evident that there has never been as much dissatisfaction among dairy farmers in this country as there is at the present time. A few years back we had overproduction in Canada. Now production in relation to needs is just about holding its own in all provinces outside of Ontario and Quebec, or central Canada. We may soon be depending on imports. Have the powers that be no knowledge of how long it takes to establish a dairy business and the cost involved? The farmers may well end up in a position of deficit production shortly. It is evident that the prime object seems to be to get the government out of paying subsidies, with sufficient production only a secondary aim.
The past year has shown an increase in the disappearance of dairy surpluses in North America and western Europe. This tendency to decline began about the middle of 1969. Prices are therefore strengthening. There has also been a general decline in the number of dairy cows as well as in the number of producers. The average production per cow is up which shows increased efficiency in production. This is something the government is always talking about, especially the Department of Agriculture.
Since the Canadian Dairy Commission began operating in 1967 the number of registered producers has dropped by approximately 50 per cent. This means that the other half is no longer in business. Half of the former producers no longer have an income from the dairy business.
If the government insists on cheap food, subsidies must be paid. In fact, they may have to be increased; yet the government estimates a decrease for sustaining the dairy industry in the future.
In the recent agreement between Quebec and Ontario and the Canadian Dairy Commission fines were imposed-there is no other word for these holdbacks-of $2.40 per hundred on manufacturing milk for overproduction and 50.28 cents per pound of butterfat. The same deal is now proposed for Alberta. I understand that two or more preliminary meetings have been held in Alberta in this regard. Under this agreement the Canadian Dairy Commission can fine even fluid milk shippers for then-surplus or overproduction. With this type of agreement there is no way their surplus production can be reached by the Canadian Dairy Commission. These fines can put a producer in a straitjacket. He must hold his production to a certain level at all times. Anyone knows that cows refuse to co-operate, thus making this almost impossible.

Dairy farmers must wonder why their industry has been singled out to be the only Canadian industry under complete state control.


Mr. Speaker, in effect the statement says there will be no change in the direction of dairy policy. That policy is mainly one by which the government is withdrawing support for the industry or reducing it to the minimum. I think this policy will fit in very well with the farm adjustment policy being worked out by the minister and his colleagues which seeks to remove an increasing number of farmers from agriculture. This adjustment program will adjust a number of farmers out of agriculture. I believe the dairy policy will fit into this program very well, to the dissatisfaction of the farmers. It is said that the dairy program will depend on what the export price is for powdered milk, which is an unknown factor.
The last time the minister made an announcement on dairy policy he said that an agreement had been reached between the dairy producers in Quebec and Ontario. Not more than two weeks later we had an urgent plea from the dairy producers in Quebec to appear before the Standing Committee on Agriculture to state their case and their dissatisfaction. At that time I asked them how they could expect the committee to do for them what the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Olson) had already refused to do.
This is the situation in which we find ourselves. I would not be surprised if we again have the dairy producers asking to appear before the Standing Committee on Agriculture as a result of this statement.


Mr. Speaker, as it happens, I had planned to put a question related to the dairy policy to the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Olson). I would have done so yesterday, but as he was absent and the new dairy year is fast drawing near I had hoped that he would inform us today of the new dairy policy for 1971-72.
Hon. members will remember that on February 17, 1971, the House instructed the Committee on Agriculture to inquire into Vote No. 30 related to the Canadian Dairy Commission and to report in due course to the House. As the Committee on Agriculture has unfortunately not examined this vote so far, I quite understand why today the Minister of Agriculture has announced no major changes in dairy policy for the coming year.
I expected, however, that the increase in production costs for dairy products as well as other products, would have been taken into account, and that some improvements would have been made that would have been more beneficial to those who are really involved in milk production, especially industrial milk, so that they could obtain a higher income and fairer prices.
Obviously, I am aware of the current difficulties of the Canadian government; I realize also that it is not always an easy task to accept the most legitimate requests from farm organizations, such as the Canadian Federation of Agriculture. But one should well understand that it will
March 30, 1971

Request for Seal Hunt Study
be necessary at some point to react more favourably if we are to establish a dairy industry that will be in a position to compete with products from elsewhere.
The minister is certainly aware that member countries of the European Common Market voted recently on the adoption of a budget of over $3 billion to subsidize the production of farm products, in order to allow producers to produce more efficiently and at lower cost.
If Canada is to remain on the international market, it will have some day to adopt policies to foster a decrease in production costs while enabling producers to earn a living decently.
Furthermore, a surplus is said to exist. Yes surely, there is a surplus, if the objective is set according to present consumer demand. It is obvious that the people's purchasing power is rapidly decreasing month after month as the rate of unemployment is increasing. There is no doubt then that demand in decreasing gradually. It is clear that the people would need a national market on which to dispose of a greater production, if it had a purchasing power to match its actual needs.
Then, there have been proposals during the past couple of years to the effect that by means of agreements the federal and provincial governments could generate a policy to help dispose of a given volume of dairy products in schools, hospitals, homes for senior citizens, etc.
This policy is presently established in the United States and in quite a forceful manner, as the President of the United States has just authorized doubling this year's budget to supply dairy products in schools, hospitals and homes.
This has promoted the consumption on the national market, and allowed United States milk producers to dispose more easily of their production and to have more profitable farms.
I repeat that the minister, his advisers and the government should further study these suggestions in order to find the means of carrying out this objective of helping the dairy industry of Canada, especially in the provinces with the higher volume, to continue its progress and establish research facilities towards diversification of its production for greater use of milk.
In any event, I offer the minister my co-operation and that of my colleagues so that we may continue to work together in order to find solutions that will ensure the survival of the milk producers because many of them have now gone bankrupt.
During the weekend, I witnessed typical cases which are really touching. As a matter of fact, I met people who had made capital expenditures to remain in the dairy industry and who, due to the increase of quota costs, are today under the obligation of recapitalizing or going bankrupt.
Therefore, I should like to invite the minister not to wait for the next dairy year to announce again an increase in the prices of industrial milk, but to do it, as is mentioned in the statement, within the limit of a month or two, which is what we hope for.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43 I seek leave to move a motion concerning the real and apprehended disruption of grain movement from the Prairies to the ships now waiting in Vancouver and those due to arrive in Vancouver over the next three weeks. In this crisis, Mr. Speaker, I propose to move, with the unanimous consent of the House, seconded by the hon. member for Crowfoot (Mr. Horner), the following motion:
That this House, in view of the crisis now existing and impending in grain movement from the Prairies to aboard ship at Vancouver and the resulting anticipated failure of Canada to meet her export grain commitments, urges the government to take immediate and extraordinary measures to get western grain moving and loaded at Vancouver.


Hon. members have heard the motion proposed by the hon. member for Mackenzie. Under the terms of Standing Order 43 this motion requires unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity. The motion cannot be put.
[DOT]*H	*	*


Mr. Speaker, I wish to move a motion pursuant to Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. It concerns the appointment of a government task force to investigate and study all aspects of the seal industry in Canadian waters, particularly the Gulf of St. Lawrence and the Labrador waters, with a view to reducing the annual seal quota. The terms of reference contain no reference to the value of the seal hunt to the citizens of the Maritimes, Newfoundland and the Gaspe as a source of income and employment. The task force includes no member from those areas. The recommendations to be made by the task force are conditioned by the statement by the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry (Mr. Davis) that it may be necessary to launch a campaign to have "the ladies stop buying fur seal coats."
I therefore move, with the consent of the House, seconded by the hon. member for Humber-St. George's-St. Barbe (Mr. Marshall):
That this House instructs the Standing Committee on Fisheries and Forestry to inquire into the necessity for the appointment by the government of a task force to inquire into the seal industry in the Atlantic region and, in particular, to inquire into the rationale of having the task force composed entirely of persons from other than the Atlantic area.

March 30, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry


The motion proposed by the hon. member requires unanimous consent.


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent. The hon. member's motion cannot be put.


I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister in a position to give us the date for the publication of his white paper? Can the minister also indicate whether he is giving any consideration to the suggestion that it be produced in two stages, one dealing with policy and one dealing with weaponry and weapons systems?


Mr. Speaker, I anticipate that it will be available to the public and the House at approximately the end of May. With regard to the second suggestion, I think he will find that the two aspects of the matter have been melded together.


have a question for the Prime Minister arising out of a statement made to the press by the Minister of Communications in which he said that he is completely opposed to the building of an oil pipeline through Canada. He said that it would be a disaster which would create severe economic dislocation in the country and lead to a kind of industrial suicide. As this statement completely contradicts statements made by the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources and the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development I should like to ask the Prime Minister if the statement made by the Minister of Communications represents government policy?


Mr. Speaker, I have not seen the text of such a statement but I understand it was given in reply to an interview. At this
time all I can say is that the various ministers who have commented on this subject have done so from the particular point of view of their department and their knowledge of the Canadian economy and government. All have said that no decision would be made without taking into account all considerations relative to the common good of Canada. I assume that the Minister of Communications was merely pointing out another dimension of this very complex problem.


In view of the fact that the Minister of Communications has raised some very serious questions about the economic impact of a pipeline being built through Canada, may I ask the Prime Minister if the government has had any studies made of the economic impact of the construction of such a pipeline? If so, have such studies been passed on to the two ministers who have been publicly inviting American companies to apply for the construction of a pipeline?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot say that studies have been made in the sense that they would have been completed, but certainly this aspect, this dimension, of the problem is one which I drew to the attention of the minister mainly involved in co-ordinating all studies for the Canadian government. The results of all these inquiries and studies will be brought before cabinet before a decision is made on any one particular aspect.


What did he say?


May I ask the Prime Minister if the two ministers who have publicly invited American companies to make application for the construction of a pipeline did so before the cabinet had reached any decision with respect to the economic impact that such a program would have?


The premise of the question is not correct, Mr. Speaker. No member of this government officially invited any American construction of such a pipeline. When the hon. member quoted some aspects of this matter the other day he himself had to say that any so-called invitation would be conditional upon a decision reached by the Canadian government and that every aspect of interest to the Canadian public would be looked into before any decision was made, let alone an invitation.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the minister in charge of the Post Office.
Can he tell us what is the normal delay required at the Postage Stamp Division to approve a stamp and also if he intends to see that the one recently sponsored by the CNTU is accepted?

March 30, 1971


Mr. Speaker, I have a question I should like to address to the right hon. Prime Minister. In light of the series of slowdowns in grain movement because of inadequate facilities, the non-availability of certain grades of grain, and labour strikes on the west coast, is the government considering specific emergency measures to move grain at this time?


Mr. Speaker, this problem was raised in the House in the past few days. No further decision has been taken by the government since replies were given to the question.


Has the government charged a special task force to consider making recommendations for emergency action?


Not the government, Mr. Speaker.


I have a question for the Minister of Labour, Mr. Speaker. In light of the economic effects of slowdowns by railway employees on government attempts to combat unemployment, is the minister satisfied that the position of the negotiations has reached such a point at the moment that we will not have a prolonged strike?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot attempt to assess with any accuracy whether or not we are in for a long strike. I know that at this very moment negotiations are taking place in Montreal between the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, the union representing the striking engineers on the west coast, and the CPR and the CNR.


Mr. Speaker, I directed a question to the House Leader on Friday and he indicated he would ask the Minister of Labour to make a statement to the House. Can the Minister of Labour tell the House now if he has indications that those workers who are booking off and are on slowdowns and so on are prepared to go back to work or are going back to work today or tomorrow to relieve the situation?


Mr. Speaker, I understand that the workers in Vancouver will be meeting at two o'clock Vancouver time and my parliamentary secretary will be present at that meeting. My discussions by long distance last night were fairly fruitful. I can only hope the meeting this afternoon will indicate a return to work on the part of the members.
Inquiries of the Ministry GRAIN


have a question for the right hon. Prime Minister Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact that there have not been the proper grades of grain in position at the western terminals and thus many ships are waiting for grain cargoes in the harbour, will the Prime Minister consider paying the demurrage charges from the federal treasury rather than taking them from the receipts of the grain producers?


Good question!


He doesn't know the answer.


have a supplementary question for the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of the gravity of the situation facing our economy with the current railway shutdown, will the Prime Minister move at once to convene an emergency committee meeting made up of the responsible ministers within his cabinet for the purpose of finding an immediate solution to this very serious problem?


Mr. Speaker, the way in which the government orgamzes its committees to deal with this matter I do not think is important to discuss in the House, but the hon. member may want to know that there is a group of ministers which meets on grain problems.


I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Labour. In view of the seriousness of this issue to the west coast and to all of Canada, will the minister, if requested by the engineers, travel to Vancouver to meet with the union?


In view of the seriousness of the situation, Mr. Speaker, I would request the hon. gentleman to let the negotiating team in Montreal pursue its work without premature and undue interference on my part.


Mr. Speaker, would the Prime Minister be prepared to recommend to the

March 30, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
minister in charge of the Wheat Board that in future more grain be kept in export position so that strikes will not affect us as adversely and so that grain will be available to be moved when ships come in?


Order. The hon. member's supplementary appears to be a suggestion which he has to assume will be taken into account in the future.


Mr. Speaker, I want to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence.
Would he tell the House whether the government will initiate a new withdrawal from Europe and bring to an end the presence of our forces in Europe?


Mr. Speaker, this matter, surely, has been quite well canvassed in the question period during the past number of days.


What did the minister do?


Mr. Speaker, I announced at that time that the Prices and Incomes Commission is conducting an investigation into those charges. I also pointed out that the banks are not subject to the Combines Investigation Act, which I am sure the right hon. gentleman knows. In so far as there is any ministerial responsibility for the behaviour of the banks, it rests with the Minister of Finance.


Mr. Speaker, that is the old game of alibi that this government plays. I ask the minister, in view of his interest in the subject of inflation, did he get in touch with and communicate with the Minister of Finance and point out this situation to him in order to protect Canadians against what is apparently an inordinate and unjustifiable increase?


No, Mr. Speaker, there will not be any change.


I want to put a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
Would the hon. minister say also what will turn out of our accession, in 1957, to the North American Air Defence Command Agreement which was renewed in 1967 and is going to expire in a short time?


I must suggest to the hon. member that his question is quite general in nature and it seems to me that, normally, if the hon. minister would wish to answer it, he should do so by means of a statement on motions. I suggest this to the hon. member as well as to the hon. minister concerned.
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. It has to do with the fact that the chartered banks of Canada will be introducing charges effective on Thursday, which day, significantly, is April 1, which include a 33 per cent increase in charges on current accounts, a 27 per cent increase in the cost of writing personal cheques and an increase of 33 per cent for paying utility bills through bank branches. This matter was brought to the minister's attention some time ago and to the government's attention. What did the minister do in order to prevent this seriously inflationary action on the part of the banks, especially in view of the fact that their profits have been tremendously high during the last couple of years?


Usurious increase.


Mr. Speaker, the right hon. gentleman led the government which revised the Combines Investigation Act. I would have thought that he would have included banking services within the act.


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!


As I indicated in my previous answer, ministerial responsibility for the conduct of banks and the administration of the Bank Act rests with the Minister of Finance. He made it clear to the House that he would not approach the banks on what was, under the act, a business decision on their part.


Is that the attitude of the minister toward inflation today? The government is always blaming labour. Is it not about time that the responsibility was shared?


Hear, hear!
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In light of the important event this forenoon of his signing with officials of the West German government a convention on social security, can the minister advise the

March 30, 1971

House how soon pension cheques might be available to Canadians of German origin?


Why not? He gave you the question.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, may I indicate that pension cheques will not be made available to Canadians of German descent until the convention that was signed today is ratified both by the West German parliament and the parliament of Canada.
With your indulgence, Mr. Speaker, I think the House will be more than happy to recognize in the gallery known experts from West Germany including Professor Jantz, Dr. Schwartz and Mr. Strenger, who have been of invaluable assistance in breaking ground on this matter which we consider to be a new first so far as Canada is concerned.


Hear, hear!


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Even though the minister cannot say on what date the cheques will start coming, can he indicate what will be the effective date so far as the convention itself is concerned?


Mr. Speaker, I believe the effective date, and I ought to check this, is almost the present day. As I indicated to the House, Mr. Speaker, the whole matter is subject to ratification by both parliaments. We hope that this can be completed some time within the next six or seven months.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry I wish to direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the recommendation of the Standing Committee on Fisheries and Forestry, based on evidence heard, that the seal hunt should be continued, and in view of evidence from the Canadian Federation of Humane Societies and other organizations supporting the present government policy on the seal fishery, can the Prime Minister tell the House why it has been found necessary to appoint another task force at public expense?


Order, please. The hon. member's question is clearly not in order. Unless the hon. member rephrases the question, I think the Chair will have to go to the next questioner. The hon. member has asked the government why it was found necessary to appoint a task force. That is certainly not the type of question that can be asked at this time. If the hon. member seeks information, he should ask the question directly and not in the terms in which it has just been put.
Inquiries of the Ministry SEAL HUNT-APPOINTMENT OF TASK FORCE-ANNOUNCEMENT OUTSIDE HOUSE


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the Prime Minister if it is now government policy for ministers to make major statements outside the House announcing the appointment of task forces while Parliament is sitting, thereby depriving the members of the House of the opportunity of reacting?


The hon. member is reacting.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. Yesterday the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry made a major statement in the city of Vancouver announcing the appointment of a task force to study a subject that had already been studied very extensively by the Standing Committee on Fisheries and Forestry of this House. I maintain, Mr. Speaker, that that statement ought to have been made in the House. According to the roster, the Minister of Fisheries and Forestry is supposed to be in the House today but he is not here. Thus we are being deprived of the opportunity of directing questions to the minister on this very important statement of government policy.


ROLE OF CANADIAN CONSUMER COUNCII______LOW-INCOME
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. In view of opinions expressed today by Professor Jacob Ziegel, lately a member of the Canadian Consumer Council, that that body, costing the taxpayers roughly $100,000 a year, is largely ineffective because it has neither clearly defined guidelines nor structure, does the minister, at the beginning of its third year, plan a reassessment of its role, if any, in the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs?


Mr. Speaker, I announced last week the appointment of a new chairman and the reappointment or appointment of members of the council. I have discussed at length with the new chairman the purpose of the council and the working procedures of the council, and I foresee a very useful period and role for the council in the two years ahead.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Since the recent list of appointments to the Canadian Consumer Council fails to contain the names of any representatives of low-income consumers, does the minister intend to supplement this list with the names of such appointees? If not, why not?


Mr. Speaker, I think that the people on the council are a group of people who can fulfil the purpose of the council and are good appointments.

March 30, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of statements that have been published questioning the very usefulness of the Consumer Council, may I ask the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs whether he or his officials, when drafting the packaging and labelling bill, consulted in any way with the Consumer Council or received any representation from them?


No, Mr. Speaker. We consulted with the Consumers Association of Canada.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. The hon. member for Gander-Twillingate.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the Canadian government has now seen fit to pay a great deal of attention to the American and European people who are against one aspect of our marine resources, I wonder if the Prime Minister can indicate that a definitive statement will be forthcoming and that a definite stand will be taken by the government on the harvesting, raping and exploitation of our marine resources by foreign nationals which is almost destroying the capability of our fishermen in the Atlantic region at the present time?


I will draw the representation and allegation to the attention of the various ministers involved. I wonder if I might be allowed to answer a question asked me yesterday by the right hon. member for Prince Albert?


Perhaps we might first allow the hon. member for Gander-Twillingate a supplementary. The Chair will recognize the Prime Minister in a moment.


The Prime Minister referred to drawing to the attention of the Minister of Fisheries my representation and allegation, which is certainly not a fair comment. Perhaps he could take time off from his sugaring-off contest one of these days-


Order, please. Would the hon. member kindly resume his seat.


Yesterday, Mr. Speaker, the right hon. member for Prince Albert

asked me to look into the matter of an alleged discrepancy between what I said in the House and what was actually contained in the official transcript in Hansard. I have looked into this matter following my undertaking and I have been assured that no one in my office-nor, indeed, myself-made or suggested any change in Hansard. I am also told that what I said in the House was actually, as my memory prompted me to say yesterday, what is recorded in Hansard.


I suggest to the Prime Minister that the whole thing could be cleared up by tabling the blues. It would be seen if they were tabled that the Prime Minister has changed it or somebody changed it.


Shame!


Order. The Chair is prepared to take the responsibility in connection with this matter. I might say I have received a preliminary report which substantiates the statement just made by the right hon. Prime Minister. Particular reference was made to the taped proceedings of the House of Commons.


Hear, hear!


Withdraw.


A prospective appointee, Mr. Speaker. Does this mean that from now on the blues are not accepted as to what is said in this House? I saw the blues, and there was a very pronounced change made between the blues and Hansard.


Hear, hear!


I really do not think there is much point in going into the matter very deeply. The right hon. gentleman was, I suggest, justified in raising the matter, and the Prime Minister said he thought, from memory, he had made a certain statement. The right hon. gentleman was right. The blues came out in one way but I am advised by the Hansard staff that they are the ones who made a mistake, that a check was made by our officials of the tape, and that they take full responsibility for the correction which they themselves made to the blues.
So I suggest to both right hon. gentlemen that they are both right. The right hon. gentleman from Prince Albert was right. The blues came out in the way he suggested. The Prime Minister was right that what he said he had said is actually what he had said. So everyone is vindicated.


I have a question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. It has to do with the question I asked him on March 26 regarding the possible prosecution in the United States of Canadian businessmen who are associated with the Canadian pulp
March 30, 1971

and paper industry and their reluctance to go to the United States for fear of becoming subject to United States anti-combines legislation. The minister undertook to look into the matter and report to the House this week. Has he yet had an opportunity to check the statements made by Mr. Fowler and other people in the pulp and paper industry and is he prepared to report to the House on the matter?


My colleague the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs has kindly consented to answer this question.


I have seen the comments made by Mr. Fowler. We are familiar with the investigation in the United States pursuant to the terms of an agreement entered into by the Attorney General of the United States and myself which was tabled in the House on November 5, 1969. We have no indication that the United States authorities were either endeavouring to apply their laws extraterritorially or that the United States courts were exceeding their jurisdiction. If anyone has information that this is not correct his complaint should be taken up with myself. I have received no such complaints.


Having regard to the provision in our combines legislation which permits exporters to combine for export purposes, and since the United States anticombines legislation takes a somewhat different approach, can the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs tell us whether those responsible in the United States for interpreting combines legislation are in agreement and are prepared to honour a provision of the kind which exists in Canadian anti-combines legislation?


The whole purpose of the agreement to which I have referred was to prevent any misunderstanding between our two countries as to the extraterritorial application of United States laws. When we are in the process of revising the combines legislation international considerations will apply and we will try to devise a law which will best protect Canadian interests.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister, following that put yesterday by my colleague the hon. member for Bellechasse.
Does the Prime Minister intend to let some underprivileged areas of Canada make use of the same advantages granted to underdeveloped countries, that is interest-free loans repayable over a long period?


Mr. Speaker, I have often answered that question indicating to the
Inquiries of the Ministry
hon. member and others that we effectively transfer to provinces and underprivileged areas some much larger amounts than those lent to other countries. For example, we have learned that through the Department of Regional Economic Expansion alone, more than half a billion dollars have been allocated to underprivileged areas of the country and given free, without any interest.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a supplementary question to the Prime Minister who has just said that this is in fact being done in the Department of Regional Economic Expansion. Does it mean that the Prime Minister would not be against interest-free loans to underdeveloped Canadian areas by the Department of Regional Economic Expansion?


Mr. Speaker, in the December budget, we allocated $160 million for assistance to less favoured areas of the country over a very long period and at a very low interest rate.
We have also, through the equalization system and the Minister of Finance, transferred every year to provinces and underdeveloped areas hundreds of millions of dollars that not only do not bear interest but are free. The hon. member should put his remark in the right context.
Indeed, we often grant foreign countries long term loans, but these are not without interest, since it is the Canadian people who pay the interest, because we obviously exempt foreign countries from the payment of interest. That is the reason why we have established a program of assistance to countries less developed, less fortunate than Canada. I think that on this point, we have the support of all hon. members.


Mr. Speaker-


Order. I suggest to the hon. member that we really have to try and consider some other matters, because we are not moving very quickly this afternoon. I suggest that we should now get on to another subject.

lEnglish]


My question is for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration or for the Secretary of State, but in their absence may I direct it, because of its urgency, to the Acting Minister of Manpower and Immigration? In light of the fact that as of this morning information regarding the Opportunities for Youth program was not available to groups and municipal authorities either at the Sydney manpower office or at two other offices on Cape Breton Island, would the minister expedite the dispatch of information to these offices immediately?


I will take notice of the question.


A supplementary to the right hon. gentleman. In view of the information given in the House

March 30, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
yesterday by the Minister of Manpower that April 15 is the cut-off date for applications, would the right hon. gentleman not agree that Canada Manpower offices should now be in a position to provide information about this hodge-podge of odds and ends wrapped up in a riddle of bureaucratic confusion?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. It was recently brought to my attention that the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce had indicated that the proper place at which to apply for the job of census taker was the local Manpower offices. It has since been revealed that the local Manpower offices are indicating to people that they should get in touch with their Member of Parliament. Would the Prime Minister would look into this matter and see to it that information is sent to the local Manpower office so that if there is such a program advantage can be taken of it?


Mr. Speaker, if my hon. friend refers to Hansard or the sound tape he will see that I did not refer at the time to census takers; I referred to some jobs available to students here in Ottawa after the census is taken, helping to bring all the information collected into shape.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of National Health and Welfare whether he has received any representations to investigate the feasibility of initiating negotiations with governments of other countries regarding an agreement on reciprocity of pensions similar to the one he signed this morning with the government of West Germany.


Yes, Mr. Speaker. We are hoping that this new reciprocal agreement will serve as a precedent for similar agreements with other countries which will be of tangible assistance to many other Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Some time ago I asked the
minister a question regarding the seriousness of the use of demethyl-nitrosamine in the curing and preparing of foods. At that time the minister stated that he would have the information within a few days. I should like to know what conclusions have been reached regarding the use of this substance.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for giving me notice of this question and advise him that the amount of this particular substance that we have found is about 1,000 times less than those amounts known to produce cancer in animals. It does have a useful function. Our analysis is now sophisticated enough that we feel we can study that type of situation and detect any increase in amounts found in foods. We are keeping the matter under constant study at the present time.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Public Works. Can the hon. gentleman advise whether he has received from the government of Prince Edward Island or from private commercial groups a proposal or proposals for the construction of the Northumberland causeway by private concerns, and can he advise whether the department and the government of Canada are giving their co-operation to such a proposed undertaking?


The
answer, Mr. Speaker, is no.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs arising out of an answer he gave earlier in which he expressed regret that an earlier government had not included banking services in the anti-combines legislation. Are we to deduce from the minister's expression of regret that he intends to include banking services in the revisions which he has said he will bring before this House some time soon?


Mr. Speaker, I think that all that was appropriate to be said on this subject, for the moment at least, was said last week.


Nothing then; double nothing now.

March 30, 1971


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. What action has the minister taken to finalize arrangements for payment of the $400,000 special assistance to the Okanagan apple growers?


Mr. Speaker, there was some lack of understanding or agreement between our department and the association as to the terms and conditions under which the disposition of this money could be used to help out in a very difficult situation. Since I had a meeting with the association in the Okanagan Valley about ten days ago, I have sent a senior official from the department to see whether we can find a better basis for these terms and conditions.


Mr. Speaker, I have a very objective question for the Prime Minister.
In regard to interest-free loans, I feel that the people should know exactly what they are about. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether, when the government makes an interest-free loan to a foreign country, there are conditions attached to the deal which enable Canada to sell its products.


Yes, Mr. Speaker. When we grant such loans to a foreign country, we make sure that a certain percentage of the money will be used for purchasing Canadian materials and services.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the Prime Minister whether the government is giving consideration to making interest-free loans available to Canada's underdeveloped provinces?


Order, please. The hon. member will recognize that this is substantially the question asked by one of his colleagues to the extreme left of the chamber a moment ago.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence whether he
Inquiries of the Ministry
is in a position to answer the question I asked him last Friday, which was taken as notice by the Acting Minister of National Defence, regarding honorary membership in messes?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I am advised that the practice of granting honorary life membership in messes was a custom peculiar to the RCAF and was only applicable to RCAF officers' messes. On unification of the Canadian Armed Forces, the practice was not continued. Anyone who has a lifetime membership card may enjoy the same mess membership privileges as before in any officers' mess that was an RCAF mess prior to February 1, 1968. A retired officer may apply to become an associate member of a mess and pay the appropriate mess dues as does a serving member of the Canadian forces.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Has the government come to any decision or is it in the process of negotiating a cost-sharing agreement with the provinces or with any province with respect to any of the several paramedical services?


No. Mr. Speaker.
# * *


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. In light of Your Honour's ruling and the Prime Minister's reply to my question last Wednesday, is the Prime Minister now prepared to hear a small non-political group express its concern over Bill C-176?


Mr. Speaker, I understand that there have already been some 250 witnesses, more or less, before this committee and I cannot see the need at this time, since the bill is making such good progress, to interrupt this progress to hear further witnesses.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In light of the Manitoba government's decision to take the Manitoba Court of Appeal case to the Supreme Court of Canada, perhaps in order to save embarrassment to all it would be best for the Prime Minister to listen to some of the concerns being expressed so that he can better judge the whole issue.
4736

March 30, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry NATIONAL SECURITY


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Prime Minister a short question about the famous book. When the Secretary of State announced his intention to write this book, did the Prime Minister know that a member of his personal staff would be working long hours on this particular duty? I refer to Pierre Billon.


The hon. member for St. John's West.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. If in fact Pierre Billon was doing this work, would the Prime Minister now put him on more constructive work such as jobs for students?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Public Works. Can the minister inform the House as to the status of the application made by the Newfoundland government to build docking facilities in Come-by-Chance, Newfoundland?


Mr. Speaker, we expect to be making an announcement on this matter in the course of a few days.


Can the minister inform the House whether it is the intention of the Canadian government to request a guarantee from the Newfoundland provincial government to cover the amount in question?


The answer, Mr. Speaker, is that we had made that request.
sfc *	*


My
question is directed to the Prime Minister. Was the Secretary of State for External Affairs expressing government policy in Montreal last evening when he was reported to have said to the International Law Association that the United Nations can no longer be expected to provide peace-keeping forces for world trouble-spots?


Mr. Speaker, any statement along those lines would have to be read in the context of the white paper that the government published on this whole matter not too long ago. The government position is quite clear that we do not want to
get into peacekeeping operations without examining the conditions which prevail at the time. That does not mean there will be no participation in any peacekeeping operations.


Mr. Speaker,