Mr. Speaker, I rise today on a question of privilege that I believe affects every member of the House. My point of privilege has arisen because of a newspaper report that appeared in the Vancouver Sun datelined Friday, September 10, 1971 and attributed to the Sun's Ottawa bureau.
This report is one based on pure conjecture, perhaps mental telepathy, I suspect a bit of pure political partisanship and just plain poor reporting which may have been contributed to by hearing difficulties. The effect of the report reflects adversely on all members of the House and on me in particular. It has also given Sun readers a false version of what took place in the House.
This report states that I am in favour of the United States government setting off the atomic blast scheduled for Amchitka.


Shame!


It also claims that I was the only member who said "No" to the motion proposed by the member for Fraser Valley West (Mr. Rose) that this blast be condemned. Hansard for September 10, page 7701, shows this statement to be false. According to Hansard, at that page these words are recorded:


Nay.
This is a clear indication that other members were opposed to what was proposed.
The Sun report also states that I did not recognize that the words used by the hon. member for Fraser Valley West in his motion were those of the Minister of the Environment (Mr. Davis) for Canada. This is the very reason, Mr. Speaker, that I said no. I did recognize that the hon. member for Fraser Valley West was plagiarizing the minister's brilliant speech for his own cheap political purposes.


Oh, oh!


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member that perhaps very soon another member will have a question of privilege. The hon. member knows that he cannot impute motives. Certainly he has no right to make the statement he has just made. I suggest to him that unless there is something more than what he has presented to the House up to this point he has no question of privilege I would invite the hon. member to conclude his remarks as quickly as possible.


Your Honour knows that I do not bother you very much in the House, but I will withdraw the word "cheap". I read the minister's speech, I watched him on television, and I told him personally that I agreed 100 per cent with his stand.
I appeal to you, Mr. Speaker, to protect ordinary members of the House from this type of cheap journalistic tactic that attributes to one member something that the record of the House does not substantiate. The record shows that more than one member said "Nay". This report has given false information to the good people of British Columbia, some of whom believe the story in the Sun and think that I am in favour of this horrible blast. The record shows that a number of members said no to the tactic of trying to get credit for something which the capable Minister of the Environment and the government have already put on the record.


Order, please. I doubt that hon. members would want this matter to be pursued further.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 41(2) I wish to table copies in both official languages of a Canadian Wheat Board press release on the recent sale of Canadian wheat to the People's Republic of China.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 which states that in cases of urgent and pressing necessity a motion may be moved if unanimous consent is given. The matter of urgent and pressing necessity is the potential loss of jobs to thousands of Canadians employed in the automotive and farm implement industries. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Brant (Mr. Blackburn), the following motion:
In order to clear up the present uncertainty concerning the maintenance of the employment safeguards in the Canada-U.S.

September 14, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
Automotive Agreement, this uncertainty having arisen because of the repeated refusal of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce to give the House the necessary assurances, and because of the Prime Minister's reference yesterday to the possibility of the safeguards being negotiable, and because of yesterday's recommendation by a presidential commission that the American government continue to press for the removal of the safeguards, this House resolves that such safeguards be maintained.


Hon. members have heard the motion proposed by the hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby. Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, the motion cannot be put without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


No.


Agreed.


There is not unanimous consent, therefore the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the FISP bill introduced by the Minister of National Health and Welfare yesterday uses a substantially different standard of family need in relation to allowances for dependent children than does the tax reform bill introduced by the Minister of Finance, is the government proposing to introduce amendments to the tax legislation in order that the standard in respect of family needs in the two bills will be consistent?


No, Mr. Speaker.


In
the statement released yesterday by the Minister of National Health and Welfare reference was made to the FISP bill as part of the fight against poverty. Will the Prime Minister tell the House when such a co-ordinated government plan to fight poverty will be made public in order to facilitate rational consideration of the bill introduced by the minister yesterday?


Mr. Speaker, the over-all approach was spelled out by the minister [Mr. Broadbent.J
almost a year ago in his white paper, and the details of it are coming out as evidenced now in the FISP legislation and earlier in the increase in the guaranteed income supplement.


I was wondering whether that was what the minister had in mind. In view of the proposal the Prime Minister is reported to have received from the Prime Minister of Quebec to the effect that subject to conforming to certain national standards the provinces should be allowed to determine the levels of family allowance to be paid by the government of Canada within the respective provinces, is the government considering this proposal and does it intend to confer with all the provinces on this matter before we proceed with second reading of the FISP bill?


Mr. Speaker, the House will recall that when the Minister of National Health and Welfare was preparing the FISP bill he had discussions with all the provinces during a long period last winter and spring. Indeed, our proposals at the Victoria conference followed very shortly a meeting by the minister with his opposite numbers in the provinces and indicated that the federal government was prepared to spend an extra $150 million in an attempt to meet some of the improvements suggested by the various provinces. We feel we have done a great deal to meet provincial suggestions.
This letter from the premier of Quebec arrived a little more than a week ago and contains an interesting proposal, but it was not received in time for us to readjust our bill, examine the proposal in detail or consult, as the hon. member suggests, with other provinces which might be interested. For the time being, all I can say is we are glad Premier Bourassa is in this case at least spelling out in a little more detail what kind of co-operation he thinks is needed to perhaps obtain a constitutional agreement. So we are prepared to discuss this administrative arrangement with him, and until that has been done I cannot report to the House concerning whether or not we will accept it or whether or not we will discuss it with other provinces. It is an interesting proposal and we are looking at it.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the Prime Minister.
Is the government considering the possibility of making the necessary amendments to meet the requirements of the Quebec government?


I think, Mr. Speaker, that I tried to answer that question when it was asked by the Leader of the Opposition, but I can repeat to the hon. member that the Quebec premier, when rejecting the Victoria agreement, had stated that he was doing so because he would like to elucidate the interpretation of the clauses under consideration concerning the constitution and social security. If his proposal is an indication that he would like to elucidate those clauses, we would be quite pleased and I repeat that we would be ready to discuss with him the possibility of amending our legislation in order to attain the proposed goals.
September 14, 1971


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister if he would consider tabling the letter that this government received from Premier Bourassa, assuming of course that Premier Bou-rassa is willing for this to be done?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I have no objection at all. I will communicate with Mr. Bourassa's office and if he is in agreement we will table the letter. He may by then have made it public himself, but I will certainly follow up that suggestion.


In view of the fact that the government seems to be moving into the area of humanitarianism, as leaked by the Prime Minister the other day, is the government now going to bring in legislation to provide unemployment insurance for the self-employed and to provide for automatic cost of living escalators in federal social security programs?


In view of the concern that has been registered by people in Canada, particularly with regard to the United States DISC program and the 10 per cent surcharge, is the Prime Minister going to make a realistic statement concerning the state of the economy with special emphasis on the target for employment this year?


I will consider that very helpful suggestion, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the government House leader. In view of the fact that the report of the Special Committee on Election Expenses was tabled in the House on June 4, is legislation now being prepared by the government to amend sections 62 and 63 of the Canada Elections Act and is the government going to bring in new legislation pertaining to election expenses this session?
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I would like to give some consideration to the question.


In view of the fact that the Prime Minister is on the record as favouring control of election expenses, limitation of election expenses and reimbursement for election expenses from the federal treasury, would he give the assurance that legislation will be brought before the House to complete the amendment of the Canada Elections Act in time for and prior to the next federal election?


When the House leader is giving consideration to that question I will join him, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also to the House leader. Would he consult with the other House leaders to see whether arrangements could be made to shorten the period of debate so that this important legislation on election expenses might be passed before the next election takes place?


The hon. member's supplementary question is in the form of a suggestion to the minister.


My question is to the Prime Minister. In light of the announcement today by the Common Market countries that they propose to increase the value of gold in an attempt to force a devaluation of the United States dollar, would the Prime Minister advise the House whether any instructions have been given to the Minister of Finance to act as a mediator between the two contending parties? Also, what is the attitude of Canada at this meeting of the Group to Ten that is to take place tomorrow in regard to this whole monetary question?


I am sure the Minister of Finance will attempt to report to the House on the point of view that he took when he returns from Europe next week.


Is the Prime Minister giving us to understand that the Minister of Finance has a free hand, that he can solo in this effort, or has he received any instructions from the government as to Canada's attitude in regard to the effect on the Canadian currency of a forced devaluation of the U.S. dollar?


The hon. member will have to wait and see, Mr. Speaker.


have a supplementary question to that of the hon. member for Edmonton West with regard to instructions to

September 14, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
the Minister of Finance respecting the position that Canada will take before the Group of Ten and the International Monetary Fund. Is the Prime Minister not prepared to recognize that this is a matter of importance and concern to all the people of Canada, and would he not consider it appropriate that the people of Canada should have some opportunity to express an opinion about the stand to which the responsible minister may commit this country at those meetings?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we hope very much that the people of this country, and particularly the opposition, will take a stand.


That is not an answer to my question, Mr. Speaker. I asked the Prime Minister a perfectly straightforward and polite question, if I may say so. Is it not in the public interest, in the Prime Minister's opinion, that the people of this country should know in advance and have an opportunity to express an opinion in advance with respect to the position to which the government proposes to commit this country with regard to international exchange rates and the whole international exchange system?


No, Mr. Speaker, I do not think it is a very serious nor constructive proposal unless the Leader of the Opposition is suggesting that we debate in advance the whole range of positions which will be taken by the various members of the Group of Ten and all the different hypotheses which would lead our Minister of Finance to give different answers. I think the suggestion is completely unrealistic; it is not possible for the Minister of Finance to state before leaving exactly what he will do and to have the opposition debate it and have the country give its opinion on it.


Hear, hear!


Is it the view of the Prime Minister that the government knows best and that the rest of us have to be stuck with whatever it commits us to?


Hear, hear!


Order, please. I suggest to hon. members that we are getting into a debate at this point. I gather there are a number of members seeking the floor for the purpose of asking supplementaries. We might have two or three supplementaries and then go on to the next subject.


I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister. As the government earlier committed itself to a Canadian dollar that was neither unrealistically high nor unrealistically low, is the government now prepared to take whatever steps are necessary to keep our dollar below par with the United States dollar?


I do not
admit the premises of the question, Mr. Speaker.


['Order, please. We will attempt to go to another subject. The hon. member for Vancouver East.']
Mr. Speaker, since the Prime Minister was kind enough to admit that this is a matter of concern to all Canadians, and since he is not going to inform us of the detailed plans, objectives and strategy of the Minister of Finance, can he tell the House in a general way whether the Minister of Finance has the objective of maintaining the Canadian dollar under the United States dollar and whether he will be trying to enlist the support of the European Economic Community and the Group of Ten in this regard before the International Monetary Fund meeting?


Mr. Speaker, I believe that not so many days ago the Minister of Finance himself said in the House that if he had the choice he would like to see the Canadian dollar rate lower rather than higher but that he may not be able to control all the monetary forces at work. He has stated his position which is that of the government.


Mr. Speaker, in view of reports that President Nixon is reconsidering the possibility of a nuclear test at Amchitka, against which the Canadian government has expressed itself on many occasions, and in view of suggestions in Washington that a further representation by Canada may have an important influence in President Nixon's consideration of the matter, would the Prime Minister make a personal approach to the President of the United States asking him to cancel the blast which is scheduled for some time next month?


Mr. Speaker, I attempted to answer this question last week. I said I would not rule out that possibility. If I felt it was necessary to do so I would take my cap in hand-


Oh, oh!


-and go to the President of the United States.


Mr. Speaker, I would hope that this time the Prime Minister would leave his cap at home. One can make a trip to Washington, or a telephone call, without cap in hand.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, hon. members opposite should have learned by now that shouting will not get them anywhere.


Order, please. Would the hon. member kindly ask his question.
September 14, 1971


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question. In light of the answer given by the Secretary of State for External Affairs on September 9 to the effect that his department has not yet definitely decided whether further representations should be made, in view of further reports from Washington which no doubt have been drawn to his attention, and in view of the fact that time is of the essence since the blast is scheduled for some time next month, could the Prime Minister not assure the House today that he will make such further representations personally to the President of the United States?


The answer is the same, Mr. Speaker. I dealt with this before. The hon. member is quite right in congratulating the government for having made representations at various times to the United States government on this matter. I do not know to what reports from Washington the hon. member is referring. If he can tell me what he is alluding to, and if it gives me additional cause to want to speak to the President, I will certainly consider that very seriously.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. As the Soviet Union is much closer to Amchitka, the site of the intended undergrounded nuclear blast, has any objection been made by the Soviet Union to this test?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Since there are a number of very important issues involving Canada and the United States where direct consultation between the Prime Minister and the President might produce constructive results, could the Prime Minister inform the House whether it is pride, prejudice or policy that prevents him from undertaking the 350-mile trip to Washington after his travels round the world-


Order, please. This exchange has not produced very much up to now. I wonder whether there should be further supplementaries. The Chair will recognize the hon. member for Gander-Twillingate on a further supplementary question and then we will go to another subject.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister just threatened that he would at least consider making representations to the President of the United States. I wonder whether he could assure the House that, in order to avoid any possibility of such a blast, he will not make personal representations to the President of the United States?


Order, please. We will attempt to go to another subject. The hon. member for Vancouver East.


In the absence of the Minister of National Defence, who I understand is in
Inquiries of the Ministry
the United Kingdom, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In order to set speculation at rest, will the Prime Minister tell the House when it is intended to make public the policy and details of the government's plan to proceed with a winter works program by the Department of National Defence of a similar nature to the summer employment project?


Mr. Speaker, I have not heard of any such plan so I cannot tell when it is intended to make it public.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In light of the fact that the Temporary Wheat Reserves Act was not repealed by Parliament prior to July 31, 1971, and as the Canadian Wheat Board, in the normal manner, has presented numerous invoices to the Canadian government for payment under the provisions of that act, can the Prime Minister advise the House why these payments have not been made?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to this question appears in Hansard in answer to written questions.


Is it the view of the Prime Minister that the government is within the confines of the law in refusing to observe its obligations under the Temporary Wheat Reserves Act?


Order, please. The hon. member will realize that he is asking a member of the government to express a legal opinion. In those terms the question is not in order.


I should like to direct my question to the President of the Treasury Board. Before doing so, however, I should think members of the House would like to join me in extending congratulations and best wishes to our Auditor General who has just been elected president of the Eighth International Congress of Supreme Audit Institutions of the World. Can the President of the Treasury Board advise the House what progress has been made toward establishing a benchmark for the employees of the Auditor General's office?


Mr. Speaker, I think there is continuing discussion, and a report has been made to the Public Accounts Committee of which the hon. member is chairman. So far all we have

September 14, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
succeeded in doing is making arrangements for increasing the salary of the Auditor General himself.


My question is for the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. In light of the information that leaders of the co-operative movement in Canada at their recent meeting with the Minister of Finance voiced strong opposition to Bill C-259 as it will affect co-operatives and in view of the fact that they apparently did not meet with too much success, would the Prime Minister be prepared to meet with representatives of the Co-operative Union of Canada and Le Conseil Canadien de la Co-operation to discuss the matter further?


I would first have to seek a report on the meeting from the Minister of Finance, Mr. Speaker.


I wonder whether the right hon. gentleman is really aware of the disastrous effects that the passage of the bill as it now reads will have on co-operatives and their future activities in this country?


I should like to direct a question to the Solicitor General. In light of the situation at Millhaven where there is a virtual lack of recreational opportunities and work opportunities in the shop structure, would the minister look into the situation to see whether the frustration and anger developing among inmates because of these deficiencies can be dealt with?


Mr. Speaker, I had the opportunity of visiting Millhaven this summer and while I noted that certain improvements were required, the institution in general is starting to operate in fairly normal fashion. We hope that the institution will be completely back to normal in the near future.


May I pose a supplementary question to the Solicitor General. Would he be prepared to table in the House so that everyone can see it the directive issued to inmates of Millhaven with respect to inmate correspondence, which seems to countervail what the minister said earlier about correspondence by inmates?


I certainly do not accept this allegation, Mr. Speaker, but I will inquire and should the instructions not be in accordance with the directive given, we will certainly have the situation corrected.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. It arises from the long-term agreement between the government of Canada and the British government with respect to the use of the Suffield military base in Alberta for the purpose of training British troops. Does this mean that the government of Canada and particularly the minister's department have abandoned the long-term plans for the use of this area along with a similar area across the border in Saskatchewan as a typical prairie grassland national park?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of this particular problem. I shall inquire and report to the House tomorrow.


While the minister is investigating this matter, in view of the area's ecological importance and fame as the land "where the deer and the antelope play" would he consider the possibility of using the large area available at the Shilo Canadian Armed Forces Base?


I have a question for the Solicitor General, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask the minister what action the government has taken or will be taking with respect to the killing of Chief Ed Bird in the Northwest Territories by a member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police?


Mr. Speaker, in my view, that question should be directed to the Solicitor General who, in the circumstances, is the responsible minister. However, I believe the coroner's inquest is underway, and I feel that it would not be advisable for me to comment on the matter at this time.


In view of the fact that the inquest has been completed, is it the intention of the government to

September 14, 1971

institute any further inquiry, particularly with respect to the involvement of a member of the RCMP coming under the minister's jurisdiction, in connection with this tragedy? Second, will it be the intention of the minister to table the report of the investigating officer of the RCMP so that members of the House may be informed of the full circumstances of this killing?


Mr. Speaker, I feel that the report of the coroner, who is essentially responsible for the inquiry, must first be studied.


Mr. Speaker, my question covers two departments, those of the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs; therefore I shall address my question to the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister undertake to examine an advertisement for which the Canadian taxpayers' money is being used in which the government advertises the new unemployment insurance plan in these words: "Unemployment Insurance Benefits Went Up, Beginning June 27. And That Was Just The Beginning. It's The Start of Something Big. The Full Story Is In Our 'Guide To The New Unemployment Insurance-Information For Employees'." Will the Prime Minister investigate the truth of this advertisement and the reason why the Canadian taxpayers' dollars are being used for this nonsense when the effort of the government should be directed toward creating employment, not increasing unemployment?


Hear, hear!


My question is directed to the Minister of National Revenue. In view of the fact that the income tax department permits a man to claim a $2,000 exemption for his wife on the basis of his statement that they live together while it refuses to allow a wife a similar claim in respect of her husband, does the department propose to move to wipe out this flagrant example of discrimination against the female sex?


Mr. Speaker, I will be happy to look into the hon. lady's question, but at first glance it appears to be a matter of tax policy and that is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance.
Inquiries of the Ministry


May I ask the minister to look also into what proof a wife must produce before she can successfully claim a $2,000 exemption for supporting her husband?


Order, please. I suggest that the supplementary should be placed on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Manpower and Immigration if it is the intention of his department to grant political asylum to the 20-year old sailor, Serge Kourdakov, who jumped ship at Vancouver? If so, when can the House expect a statement in that connection?


According to my recollection this question was asked yesterday, but perhaps the minister might answer if he has further information.


Mr. Speaker, there is no further information, but I should like to comment on the particular manner of perhaps granting legal status to the Russian sailor concerned. It may not be in the form suggested by the hon. member. As I indicated yesterday, it will not be long before a conclusion is reached.


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary to the question asked by my colleague the hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway, but it is addressed to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs. I understood he was committed to the important task of reviewing the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women and their various proposals. Is he prepared to report to the House on the results of his review and to tell us what legislation, if any, is proposed to implement the report?


Mr. Speaker, I am not in a position yet to give the report the hon. member is seeking simply because some of the working committee reports have yet to come forward and they must be reviewed and consolidated. There is no attempt to delay. We want to get on with it.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of the Environment. Do officials

September 14, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
of his department intend to take any legal action against the International Paper Company for dumping black fluid into the St. Maurice River, thus killing thousands of fish, especially as the Quebec minister in charge of the environment, Victor Goldbloom, stated recently that this is now a federal matter?


Mr. Speaker, we will be holding discussions with the Quebec authorities in connection with this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Fisheries-and I should like to point out for the benefit of Hansard that there is still a Minister of Fisheries-if he intends to accept administrative responsibility for the conference on conservation which is being organized by his colleague, the Minister of Transport and if not, why not?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we will accept responsibility for organizing the conference.


May I ask the Minister of Fisheries if the conference will take place in Ottawa, when the conference will take place and who will represent the government?


Mr. Speaker, invitations have already gone out. We expect the conference to be held in Ottawa within the next two weeks.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Have the proposed Arctic land use regulations been completed and approved by your department?


Would the hon. member repeat the question, please?


Have the proposed Arctic land use regulations been completed and approved by your department?


Order, please. The hon. member no doubt realizes that the question ought to be addressed through the Chair. This having been said, the minister might reply.


Mr. Speaker, the regulations in question were published in the Canada Gazette in July. Those who were interested had six weeks to present a report and make comments. Those six weeks have now

expired. We are studying the recommendations, and I trust the regulations will become effective about the middle of October.


Will these regulations be reviewed by the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development before final adoption?


Mr. Speaker, I am not a member of the committee. These rules have been published and they are official; if the members of the committee want to consider them, it is their privilege and not mine.


Mr. Speaker, will the minister make available to the committee which is now studying these matters the representations that he has received as a result of the publication of the regulations in the Canada Gazette?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know which of these representations could be forwarded. Some of them have been on a confidential basis. As for those which are of a public nature, I have no objection against making them available to the committee.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister about bad dreams which apparently are now in the public domain. May I ask the right hon. gentleman if bad dreams have cabinet collegiality? In other words, is the cabinet permitted to watch the national news television broadcast and, if so, do 90 per cent of the cabinet share the Prime Minister's bad dreams-


Order, please.


-after hearing unemployment
statistics?


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the government House leader in reference to the business of the House during the income tax debate. Has he given serious consideration to seeing that none of the standing committees of the House sit during the tax debate because of the difficulty and complexity of the bill that is under consideration and which will be considered further in the committee of the whole house?
September 14, 1971

Hon. Allan ]. MacEachen (President of the Privy Council): Mr. Speaker, it is my intention to ensure that while the committee of the whole is sitting and discussing the tax bill no meetings will be scheduled for standing or special committees. That is the general policy that I hope will be followed. There may have to be an emergency committee meeting, but that is not planned. I hope committees will meet in the mornings and that we will have the rest of the day for the bill.


Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Transport but in his absence I should like to direct it to the Prime Minister. In view of the widespread concern in the farming community as well as in other sectors of the economy as to whether St. Lawrence Seaway tolls will be raised, and in view of the several inquiries put to the government in this regard before the summer recess, is the Prime Minister now in a position to advise the House just what the government's decision is in this most important matter and, if not, when can we expect a decision?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Transport is in Vancouver on government business but he will be in the House for the question period tommorrow.


Is he organizing a fishing conference?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Can he say whether the government now has a full employment policy and indicate whether this policy is active in terms of Canadian potential and not reactive in terms of recent American behaviour, and whether there will be any announcement of the-


Order, please. It seems to me that the hon. member is asking or restating a question that was asked during the question period earlier today.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, if we are to raise questions from day to day on an issue which is of such immense importance to the Canadian people, with half a million unemployed, then certainly we have to continue asking these questions if we are to obtain a reaction from the Prime Minister who refuses to answer them.


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member that it is hardly orderly procedure to ask the same question too often at least during the same question period. I am suggesting to the hon. member that the question was asked earlier in the question period.


Try it tomorrow.


Perhaps we should go on and give another hon. member the opportunity to ask a question.


Mr. Speaker, I am asking my question on the basis of domestically created unemployment. On that basis may I repeat the question. Has the government a full employment policy similar to that which the United States is obviously working toward today, and will that type of policy be announced clearly to the Canadian people at an early date so that we do not get completely sidetracked by the chronic and serious problems created by the recent United States action?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his suggestion.


Mr. Speaker-


Order, please. I must ask the hon. member, on behalf of his colleagues in the House, for co-operation. Hon. members have been trying to ask questions from the beginning of the question period. When we are nearing the end of the question period I think we should try to limit supplementaries. At the same time I appreciate the importance of the matter raised by the hon. member. If he will ask his supplementary we will then go to the next question.


Mr. Speaker, I recognize that you must rule regarding supplementaries, but what kind of government do we have or what kind of opposition do we have if we cannot raise further supplementaries?


Order, please.


May I put my point of order?


I ask the hon. member to resume his seat. The hon. member for Regina East.


Mr. Speaker, on a question of privilege-


The hon. member rises on a question of privilege.


Yesterday I sat in my place as a member of the House of Commons for half an hour listening to the hon. member for Winnipeg somewhere or other speaking on a question of privilege directed to one unique point. I am now seeking to rise as a member with the responsibility of presenting the problems of half a million Canadians who are today unemployed. If I cannot be allowed additional supplementaries in an attempt to elicit a sane, sensible response from the Prime Minister-


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!

September 14, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order, please. That is not a question of privilege. The hon. member asked a question and a supplementary. He is now seeking to ask a second supplementary. I suggest to him, with respect, that perhaps we should give other members an opportunity to ask questions.


Hear, hear!


As far as the Chair is concerned there are 40 minutes available for oral questions. If hon. members wish to spend the entire period on one subject, that is their responsibility, not mine. I try to be as fair as possible and to give every member a chance to ask his question. That is the only reason I suggested, very honestly and in good faith, to the hon. member that we might go on to another question. I recognize the importance of the matter and the right of hon. members to ask supplementaries, but the rules are clear. Supplementaries are within the competence of the Chair; and when the Chair feels that we have reached a point when other members should be given a chance to ask questions, hon. members should try as far as possible to co-operate and give the Chair an opportunity to move on to another member.


In co-operating with Your Honour I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he will make a clear statement tomorrow on motions regarding the plan of action the government has in mind to react to the domestic unemployment situation so that hon. members will not be obliged to take up the time of the House day after day attempting to pursue this serious question involving half a million Canadians today and a million Canadians several months from now? Will the Prime Minister make a statement on motions tomorrow?


If I had an assurance from all hon. members of the opposition that should I make such a statement they would ask no further questions I would make it.


Oh, oh!


Wouldn't you be happy!


Order, please. We have about reached the end of the question period.


If the Prime Minister would show a little co-operation in the House-


Oh, oh!


Order, please. The hon. member for Regina East.


On a question of privilege-


I apologize to the hon. member for Regina East. The hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond rises on a question of privilege.


Mr. Speaker, my question of privilege relates to the original question I asked the Prime Minister concerning two departments of government, namely, the Department of Labour and the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Inasmuch as the minister responsible for the latter department is present in the House, I will ask him, now, since the Prime Minister will not take the responsibility, why he, as minister of the department concerned, allows false advertising to be carried at the taxpayers' expense with respect to the unemployment situation in this country?


Order, please. That is not a question of privilege. The hon. member is repeating the question he asked a few minutes ago. Perhaps he did not get the answer he wanted. Nevertheless, the question having been asked, the minister might now be allowed to answer and then I will again attempt to recognize the hon. member for Regina East.


Since he asked this question the first time the hon. member has failed to send me the advertisement about which he complains. If he will do that, I will be happy to examine it.


Mr. Speaker, further on the question of privilege-


Order, please. The hon. member should recognize that this is not a question of privilege. He asked the minister a question and I allowed the minister to reply. Perhaps there might be communication between the minister and the hon. member so that they could consult on the matter raised by the hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond.


What are you trying to hide?


On a question of privilege arising from the remarks now being made by the Prime Minister who insists on trying to hide something, I am not going to hide anything.


Order, please. We are certainly not progressing very effectively or efficiently this afternoon. We have already reached the end of the question period. I am somewhat grieved that we have not had a chance to recognize a number of hon. members. I am sure we can remedy this situation tomorrow when, with the consent of the House, perhaps some of those hon. members might be allowed to ask a few of their questions. I doubt whether there is a legitimate question of privilege in the matter raised by the hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond.


Does a question of privilege not arise when a member of the government imputes motives to a member of the opposition? This is exactly what the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs has done and
September 14, 1971

what the Prime Minister has just done with his remarks from his seat.


The hon. member is quite right. It is not in accordance with correct parliamentary practice to impute motives and I have pointed this out already today to hon. members who in my view were doing that. I agree with the hon. member in that respect. Again I will call on the hon. member for Regina East. Perhaps he might ask his question.


My question is very simple and uncontroversial and it is addressed to the Prime Minister. I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he has received a letter from Mr. E. K. Turner, President of the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool, asking that further action be taken to assist agriculture in offsetting the impact of the United States import surcharge? Can the Prime Minister tell us what response he has given to that letter?


I have no memory of receiving such a letter. Had I received it I would have referred it to the minister responsible for the Wheat Board to advise me on a possible answer.


May I ask the Prime Minister whether the government has considered any further special measures to bring before Parliament to assist agriculture in offsetting the effects of the situation in which it now finds itself as a result of the United States economic measures?


The Minister of Agriculture in his speech on Bill C-262 indicated what the government proposes to do.


Orders of the day.


I rise on a question of privilege.


The hon. member will have to find a new question of privilege because I have already ruled there is no question of privilege before us. The question period has expired, but I recognize that we are going to spend more time on a question of privilege. The hon. member has the floor.


Oh, oh!


My question of privilege arises from the fact that the government has advertised false information regarding the unemployment picture in this country. I would ask the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, as head of that department, whether it is not his duty to safeguard the interests of the Canadian public and the Canadian taxpayer by preventing money being wrongly spent by the government.


Order, please. I suggest to all hon. members that that is not a question of privilege. It is a matter
Income Tax Act
of debate between the minister and the hon. member and I think he should not pursue the matter further. I have already called orders of the day. In any event-


Once more, on a question of privilege, I do not intend to stand here and listen to snide remarks from that minister who is failing to carry out the duties imposed upon him by the government.


Orders of the Day.


The House resumed, from Monday, September 13, consideration of the motion of Mr. Gray (for Mr. Benson) that Bill C-259, to amend the Income Tax Act and to make certain provisions and alterations in the statute law related to or consequent upon the amendments to that act be read the second time and referred to the committee of the whole, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Lambert (Edmonton West) (p. 7763).
Mr. Speaker, it was as long ago as September 7, 1969 that the present government, with a great flourish of trumpets, tabled the white paper on tax reform. It was on November 28, some three weeks later, that the Minister of Finance (Mr. Benson) rose in this House to present the white paper on behalf of the government and to move its reference to the appropriate committee.
The minister said then that the white paper was not binding upon the government and that if anyone had any better suggestions to make those suggestions would be taken into consideration. But it quickly became apparent that the minister did not really believe any basic changes were needed. In fact, it was not even necessary to wait until he had reacted with hurt and astonishment to the first criticisms. In his opening speech, the minister let his mask of neutrality slip when he said, and I quote him:
We in government believe that the system proposed is a good one. As I said, it is being put forward as a proposal for discussion, to be brought into study whereby it will be accepted by Canadians as being a good tax system.
May I repeat the last phrase "to be brought into study whereby it will be accepted by Canadians as being a good tax system". What that means, if it means anything, is that Canadians would be given the right, as far as the government was then concerned, first to study the white paper and then to adopt it. The government may not have felt bound by the white paper, but it was clear from the outset that the Minister of Finance was, psychologically at least, very much bound up with its proposals. It was his baby and he was not about to give it up.
You may remember, Mr. Speaker, that the minister told us at that time that this was a fight between ordinary Canadians and big business, that it was a crusade, that it was to be a march to victory. It was an advance, however, that was quickly halted, then turned into a retreat and

September 14, 1971
Income Tax Act
finally a rout. The final act as far as the white paper and its sponsors were concerned took place on June 18 last when the minister, his tail set very firmly between his legs, stood up in this House to present a tax reform package whose closest relationship to the white paper was the fact that it was being introduced by the same man, a man who had grown older and perhaps somewhat wiser in the interval.
That was a sour defeat for this government, but it was at least a partial victory for the people of Canada. It was a defeat for this government at the hands of many people and not at the hands of big business, in spite of the minister's original claims. It was a defeat at the hands of small businessmen. It was a defeat at the hands of ordinary taxpayers who realized that they were to be victimized by hidden tax increases amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars. It was a defeat at the hands of homeowners and those who want to own homes in the future.
On the other hand, it was a partial victory for common-sense. It was a partial victory for the Canadian economy. It was some kind of victory for just about everybody except for the handful of men who temporarily form the government of this country.


Hear, hear.


It was a victory, too, for the Conservative opposition.


Oh, oh.


This is the funny part.


Hon. members opposite do not like that very much, Mr. Speaker. From the very start, we attacked many of the white paper proposals for their absence of humanity and lack of realism. We attacked them for their discouragement of incentive and their assault on investment in Canada by Canadians, and we forced the government to retreat. It was not, of course, just the force of our arguments that did this, strong though they were. We know that the government makes it a point never to listen to the opposition if it can avoid doing so.


You said that we did.


I will explain to the hon. member in a moment.


He would not understand it anyway. He has no head for that.


Then, I will be clear so that even he can understand. This time the government could not help listening to us. No matter how much it grated, this time the government had to listen and to take heed, because what we were saying was being said by others. The attack came from every direction-from both Houses of this Parliament, from business, labour, the farming community, and eventually even from within the caucus of the Liberal party itself.


What about listening to your own caucus?


Let me tell the minister who interjected that certainly his own party does not listen to its caucus;

that is well known. Certainly, no member knows it better than the hon. member sitting there in the middle row on the other side. But this time it was different; the government had to listen because, behind its own caucus and behind the opposition in Parliament, the government could hear the voters. Ordinarily, perhaps it would not even listen to them, but election time is coming and certainly the government can read the calendar, whatever may be its other deficiencies. This was why the government was forced to retreat. It was not because of big business or secret plotting; it was because the people of Canada rejected, and rejected summarily, the propositions that the government had put forth.
It is an impressive catal