Fourth report of Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs-Mr. Clermont.
(Editor's Note: For text of above report, see today's Votes and Proceedings.)
Mr. Speaker, I rise to ask leave of the House to present a motion under Standing Order 43. My motion deals with an announcement made this morning that effective June 30 this year there will be a reduction of 570 military personnel, representing approximately 40 per cent of the United States Air Force complement at Goose Bay, and also a reduction of 30 in the civilian force. As it would appear that the same pattern of phase-out as at other United States installations in Newfoundland-Harmon Field, Pepperel and Argentia- has commenced, and as the Goose Bay area appears to offer no alternative employment opportunities whatsoever, I move, seconded by the hon. member for St. John's East (Mr. McGrath):
That the Secretary of State for External Affairs take immediate action to determine the full intent of the American authorities with regard to the future of the U.S. base at Goose Bay.
That the government immediately move to prepare a contingency plan to meet what would undoubtedly be an emergency situation of national importance should the Americans completely abandon this base as in the cases of Harmon Field and Fort Pepperel.


Hon. members have heard the motion proposed by the hon. member who has just spoken. Before it can be put to the House unanimous consent is required under the terms of Standing Order 43. I will therefore inquire whether there is such unanimity.


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity and consequently the motion cannot be put under the terms of Standing Order 43.


for leave to introduce Bill C-218, to amend the provisions of the Criminal Code relating to the release from custody of accused persons before trial or pending appeal.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
I have a question for the Minister of Finance who I know is lurking behind the curtains because I have seen his pipe and his face behind it. I wonder if we could wait for a moment until the hon. minister takes his place. Can we give him a hand, Mr. Speaker?


Hear, hear!


Tally-ho!


It is nice to see him back. My question is: As two months have now passed since the last federal-provincial finance ministers conference to which the treasurer of the province of Ontario submitted for consideration a plan to aid small business, has the Minister of Finance given consideration to this proposal during the intervening period and has he decided that it would be possible to utilize this excellent plan to aid small businesses across the country?


I have not only reviewed this plan but I have reviewed alternatives to it. As I have indicated previously, we have been looking at the situation-the white paper proposals, the submissions of business and the submissions of the province of Ontario with respect to the small business problem-and I would hope that when the tax bill is ultimately produced it will be well accepted by small business in the country.
Another point I should like to bring out is that the treasurer of Ontario has asked for a further meeting between provincial treasurers and finance ministers and myself. I am trying to arrange such a meeting in February but I am having a little difficulty because there are some important things going on for the Tory party in Ontario in February.

January 21, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry


I am glad to learn that the minister has compared this very excellent plan with the proposals contained in his white paper. In the course of this comparison has he not come to the conclusion that this plan is preferable to doing away with the 21 per cent tax rate and replacing it with the full 50 per cent levy, which seems to be the only real interest the minister has taken in small business?


Order. The hon. member's supplementary is in the form of an argument and I would not think it is acceptable in such terms.


May I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister arising out of a statement made yesterday by the United States Federal Power Commissioner, Albert Brooke, to the effect that the Nixon administration is trying to hasten the construction of a natural gas pipeline across Canada from Alaska because of the energy shortages being experienced south of the border? Has such a proposal been received from the government of the United States, are any discussions going on and has any decision been reached?


Mr. Speaker, there have been discussions, of course, about the building of this gas pipeline. Just how far those have involved bilateral discussions between officials of our two governments I am not quite certain at the moment. But it would be our wish that a gas pipeline be built, I think it would be in the interests of Canadians as well as of Americans.


Would the Acting Prime Minister be prepared to give an assurance that, before any decision is made with respect to the construction of such a pipeline, the whole matter will be referred to a standing committee of the House in order that we may have an opportunity of seeing what the gas needs of Canadians are, whether or not they would be affected, and also any studies that have been made of the ecological effects of the construction of such a pipeline through Canadian territory?


Mr. Speaker, I would have thought that the ordinary procedure would be used in any application for the building of a pipeline in Canada. Parliament has laid down a procedure for the use of the National Energy Board. They would receive the application, and I am sure they would be as careful about Canadian interests as my hon. friend.


Since U.S. Federal Power Commissioner Brooke also said, "Concurrent with this is the effort to develop a common continental energy policy with our Canadian neighbours",
may I ask the Acting Prime Minister whether discussions are going on at any level of government with respect to a continental energy policy, and would the government be prepared to make a statement on motions to give the House some information as to what energy commodities are being discussed and under what terms?


Mr. Speaker, I think I can say quite categorically that no discussions are going on between Canada and the United States in regard to a continental energy policy. I do wish to add, however, that I think the respective developments in our two countries should be co-ordinated as much as possible so as to gain maximum advantage for both countries.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Were the ministers who attended the latest interministerial conference between Canada and the United States, which as the minister knows takes place once or twice a year, subjected to any behind the scenes pressure brought to bear on the Canadian government, as it has been in the past, for a continental energy policy?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Acting Prime Minister. Would the minister inform the House whether any steps have been taken, or will be taken, by the government to protect the traditional hunting and fishing grounds of the native peoples of the north over whose lands the pipeline will likely be routed?


I am
quite sure, Mr. Speaker, that if the National Energy Board were to recommend to the government the issuing of a licence for this purpose, the protection of the natural environment and the interests of the local inhabitants would be taken into account in reaching a decision.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture.
In view of the fact that the President of the National Dairy Industry Council, Mr. Jackson, speaking at a meeting of the annual convention of Canadian dairy producers in Fredericton, predicted a shortage of milk by 1972 as a result of domestic and foreign demand exceeding the level of production for the current year, can the minister tell us whether his government intends to devel-

January 21, 1971

op a program for the purpose of helping farmers to produce more milk?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, and some very constructive actions were taken by the dairy industry itself and a number of the provincial marketing agencies related to that industry within the last few days. I am not persuaded that there is going to be a shortage of milk or milk products in Canada for a very long time, and perhaps not at all.


Mr. Speaker, 1 would like to ask a supplementary question.
In view of this threat, would the minister not consider immediately ceasing "penalizing" those farmers who are currently exceeding their quotas?


It seems to me that the supplementary question is in the form of a suggestion. The hon. member should assume that the minister will consider it.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General. It has to do with the situation at Prince Albert penitentiary. Has the investigation into the recent riot or disorder in the penitentiary been completed, and will the guards or warders who were suspended be reinstated?


Mr. Speaker, the inquiry has been completed and the correction officers who had been suspended have resumed work. At the present time, a grievance has been filed and it is still under study at the level of the Commissioner of Penitentiaries.


Mr. Speaker, I would also like to ask the minister whether or not the major criticisms that were made in the investigation were to the effect that orders from Ottawa from the head of the penitentiary service, who is totally unacquainted with penitentiary service having had no experience in that direction, brought about a situation in which the convicts in the penitentiary assumed superiority and authority even over the warders?


Mr. Speaker, the officials in Ottawa who are responsible for the administration of the Penitentiary Service enjoy my utmost confidence and I think they are people of experience who know about the problems in the penitentiaries and who are in direct contact with those who manage operations inside the penitentiaries.
Inquiries of the Ministry


As a further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, was a person not recently appointed as head of the penitentiary service who had no acquaintance with or knowledge of penitentiaries whatsoever?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a supplementary question to the Solicitor General. He may have answered this question in response to the right hon. gentleman from Prince Albert. If he did I did not catch the answer. I would like to know whether the inquiry into the riot at Prince Albert has been completed?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Supplementary to that, Mr. Speaker, and I apologize for not getting the answer the first time, would the Solicitor General be prepared to make the results of that inquiry public?


Mr. Speaker, I think that it has generally been recognized by the House that such inquiries are of a private nature and must serve our own purposes. Had I not been satisfied with the inquiry that was conducted, I could have used other means and turned to a higher level, but I think that this inquiry was performed very efficiently and that the situation is back to normal in that penitentiary.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary to the hon. gentleman and counter his suggestion. It is not a well recognized practice. Such inquiry reports have been made public on previous occasions. In any event, inasmuch as there appears on the Order Paper under the name of the government a referral to the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee specifically dealing with penitentiaries, specifically for the committee to travel, and specifically to look at the situation in Prince Albert, does the minister not think he could take the members of that committee into his trust and let them see the report?


Order.


['Yes, Mr. Speaker. The number of civilian employees involved is 30. As I understand it, about half will be laid off and the remainder will accept alternative employment with the United States Department of Defence. The Department of Manpower and Immigration and the Department of Regional Economic Expansion are working very closely with the local authorities in an effort to minimize the impact. As a result of the representations we made to the United States government, they have substantially improved the conditions for the release of the employees. Under the circumstances I think we have done everything reasonably possible to mitigate the effects of this reduction.\n* sfs *']
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Solicitor General. In view of the recurring riots and troubles at Prince Albert and St. Vincent de Paul penitentiaries and others across the country, would the minister set up a commission of experts to study these problems so we can have better enforcement of penitentiary administration throughout the country?


Better administration.


Mr. Speaker, following the publication of the Ouimet report, two

January 21, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
commissions have been established, whose task it is to inquire into the penitentiary system. There is, in my department, a commission that sits permanently, and there is an interdepartmental commission that meets as required. These days, this is indeed required, as was probably the case five years ago, and as it might be five years from now. Therefore, it is a permanent problem, and it is reviewed on a permanent basis in order to improve the situation that prevails in our penitentiaries.


Mr. Speaker, as some nameless voice keeps refusing unanimous consent to reasonable motions, I should like to direct the following question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of today's announcement regarding an approximate 40 per cent reduction of the military force at the United States Air Force base at Goose Bay and some reduction of the civilian force at the same base, will the minister undertake immediately to determine the intent of the United States authorities with regard to the future of that base?


Mr. Speaker, as the announcement from the United States government made clear, the United States and Canadian governments have already been very closely in touch on all aspects of this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary for the Minister of National Defence. Will he give immediate consideration to the defence committee's recommendation that Goose Bay be reactivated as one of the strategic Canadian bases for maritime command operation, for Arctic patrol and for patrol of Canada's coastal waters?


Mr. Speaker, we have had that under consideration for some time.


Mr. Speaker, I have a further supplementary for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. I think the people in that part of Canada have a right to know what their future is-


Order, please. Would the hon. member ask his supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, I was merely trying to lay a premise for my question which is very urgent and important. Has the government determined what are the intentions of the United States government with regard to the future of this installation which is so important to the economy of that particular part of the country?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. The reductions are part of a thinning out process on the part of the United States government. To answer the question directly, it is not the
intention of the United States government to declare Goose Bay surplus to United States' requirements. They intend to retain the base.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I could direct a supplementary to the Minister of National Defence. Has the minister had any discussions with the United States military authorities in respect of the use of their base and facilities at Goose Bay?


I have not personally had discussions but I would be quite prepared to inquire to see what departmental or military discussions have taken place.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Acting Prime Minister whether the government has a contingency plan such as was alluded to by the hon. member for Grand Falls-White Bay-Labrador and when the House might be apprised of the plan the government has in mind to offset the impact of the reduction or thinning out the minister mentioned, which is a reduction of 40 per cent?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. The number of civilian employees involved is 30. As I understand it, about half will be laid off and the remainder will accept alternative employment with the United States Department of Defence. The Department of Manpower and Immigration and the Department of Regional Economic Expansion are working very closely with the local authorities in an effort to minimize the impact. As a result of the representations we made to the United States government, they have substantially improved the conditions for the release of the employees. Under the circumstances I think we have done everything reasonably possible to mitigate the effects of this reduction.
* sfs *


Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Communications who is scheduled to be here today, but in his absence perhaps I might direct it to the Acting Prime Minister. Has the government decided to make a loan of some $30 million to Telesat during the next two or three years, with the intention that the loan be repaid in a few years by the issuing of shares to the public?


I wonder whether the question is so urgent that it should be asked during the oral question period. The hon. member is referring to something which

January 21, 1971

might be done within two or three years. It seems to me that normally this kind of question should be put in writing. If there is urgency which is not apparent to me, perhaps the minister might want to reply to the hon. member's question.


I will take the question as notice. It is the kind of technical question to which I could not ordinarily be expected to have the answer.


On a point of order, may I explain to Your Honour that I must have worded my question badly. The decision is being made now.


Order, please. In any event I do not think that should be considered as a point of order. The hon. member's question has been allowed and an answer of sorts has been given to him.


Yes, of sorts, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the Acting Prime Minister a supplementary question? When he draws the matter to the attention of the Minister of Communications, would he consider whether it should be a loan or whether, in view of the fact that the Canadian people will be taking the risk, we should not add to our equity ownership in Telesat?


The hon. member's supplementary question is in the form of a submission.


I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. As several weeks have gone by now since the implementation not only of the War Measures Act but of the Public Order (Temporary Measures) Act, is anyone now incarcerated who has not been charged with a particular offence either under the Code or under the special new legislation?


I will take that question as notice in view of the way it was put.


I should like to direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. It concerns the proceedings at the Singapore conference. Would the Acting Prime Minister be good enough to obtain and hopefully table in the House a copy of the Prime Minister's set speech in which he urged the abolition of set speeches at such gatherings?


Order, please.
Inquiries of the Ministry


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. I suggest it would be difficult to accept a supplementary question to a question which is clearly not in order. I will return to the hon. member in a moment. At this time I recognize the hon. member for Spadina.


My question is for the
Acting Prime Minister. In light of the statement of the mayor of Saskatoon regarding a national survey of municipalities and their welfare and unemployment pressures this winter, is the government prepared to provide emergency funds for the municipalities beyond what was stated in the budget?


I expect that this subject will be on the agenda of the meeting of welfare ministers later this month.


Has the government conducted its own survey of the impact of unemployment on the services and finances of the municipalities? If so, will the minister table the government's findings?


The government is generally aware of the impact upon the municipalities, but there is no special survey that could be tabled.


I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. Are he and his officials giving consideration to the recommendation made by the task force appointed by the Secretary of State to look into the problems of youth to the effect that service colleges should be abolished?


I would say that would be speculation on the part of the hon. member.


I would like to ask the Minister without Portfolio in charge of Information Canada whether he would consider tabling the recommendations made by the task force appointed by the Secretary of State, which I understand have now been given to the minister?


think the Secretary of State said in the House a few days ago that when the final report was available and had been considered by cabinet, he would give consideration to tabling it or making it available in some other way. I believe he answered that question a week or ten days ago.

January 21, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion.
Is he in a position to tell this House whether he has had any talks with the government of the province of Quebec with a view to granting money one way or another to the SOGEFOR plants in Maniwaki and Lac-des-Iles?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Does the hon. member for Abitibi wish to ask a supplementary question?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I would like to ask the minister whether he intends to get in touch with the Quebec authorities or the SOGEFOR management and come to an agreement which might forestall the closing of the plants on March 5 next?


The hon. member is making a suggestion which he must assume will be taken into account.


should like to ask the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion whether the government is giving consideration to a proposal from the Atlantic Provinces Economic Council to allow primary industries in Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland to qualify for regional incentive grants in view of the failure of the program in these two provinces?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of this request. It has likely reached my department and I shall have the opportunity to discuss it.


In view of the criticism levelled at the minister and his department by the Premier of Newfoundland, is it the minister's intention to participate in the economic conference planned in Newfoundland for February 4, and will he have his five-year development plan ready by that time?


Mr. Speaker, I have seen several letters and statements from Mr. Smallwood congratulating the Department of Regional Economic Expansion, but I am not aware of the last one. Unfortunately, I shall be unable to attend this conference.
[Mr. Stanbury.l


I have a question for the Minister of Justice. In view of the recent death of Tom Coles in Toronto caused by sniffing the hallucinogen MDA, is the government considering making possession of this drug illegal?


I suppose that question falls more properly under the authority of the Minister of National Health and Welfare, but because of its importance I should like to answer it now. The question, I think, is based on an editorial in a Toronto newspaper to the effect that MDA is not covered under the present legislation. I am advised that in fact the drug MDA was added to Schedule J of the Food and Drugs Act on November 26, 1969. It is therefore a restricted drug, and both possession and trafficking are currently unlawful.


What was the name of the newspaper? It is so far behind the times.


I wish to direct my question to the Minister of Labour. Because of a decline in the sale of lumber the Bowaters Mersey Paper Company closed its sawmill in Bridgewater, Nova Scotia, on December 15. However, its employees have been unable to collect their unemployment insurance to date. In view of the seriousness of their economic situation, will the minister investigate the matter to determine the reason for the non-payment of claims?


I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the visit of the Minister of Transport to Washington, presumably on the St. Lawrence Seaway toll matter, will the Acting Prime Minister assure the House that there will not be any action, unilateral or otherwise, by the Canadian government on this matter until members of the House have had a chance to express themselves, preferably in the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications?


I think I can give one assurance, namely, that it will be some time before a decision is taken.


In view of the fact that the Minister of Transport is absent because of his meeting with his United States counterparts on

January 21, 1971

this very important issue, would the Acting Prime Minister, in his charitable way, advise or instruct the Minister of Transport to make a statement on motions immediately on his return to Canada on what conclusions were reached in his discussions with his U.S. counterparts?


I have a question for the Secretary of State, but in his absence perhaps I might direct it to the Acting Secretary of State or to the Acting Prime Minister. Possibly the matter should be raised as a question of privilege, but I think I will follow the alternative of putting it as a question.
I have in front of me a copy of a publication of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation called "Closed Circuit". The headline on the front page reads, "CBC Foreign Correspondents Picked Stories of the Year", and there are pictures of six so-called foreign correspondents, one from Moscow, one from Washington, one from the United Nations, one from the Far East, one from Paris and one, Mr. Peter Daniel, from Montreal.


Oh, oh!


It may seem somewhat humourous, but in view of the present circumstances in Canada it seems to me to be a rather serious matter that a Crown corporation, the CBC, should publish something like this that can be used by many in this country as an excuse for certain actions. I was wondering-


Order, please. I wonder if the hon. member proposes to ask a question following the statement he has made.


Your Honour, perhaps there was a little disturbance in the House. I was going to say, would the Acting Prime Minister or, preferably, the Acting Secretary of State look into this matter and provide some explanation to the House since the CBC costs the country $180 million a year?


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat Board. In view of the fact that as of mid-December some 50 per cent of the elevator space in the province of Manitoba was vacant, could the minister advise the House whether a further immediate increase in general wheat quotas will be provided to allow more of this space to be filled more quickly than will otherwise happen?


Mr. Speaker, as the House well knows, it is our
Inquiries of the Ministry
hope that the elevator system will not be overfilled and that it will be in a position to operate at peak efficiency. It is true, of course that an extra number of deliveries out of Manitoba elevators led to a depletion of stocks in those elevators during the last part of 1970. Since that time wheat quotas have been opened and an additional five bushels has been added to the barley quota bringing it up to 20 bushels throughout all Manitoba blocks. We think that with these actions we will soon see an increase in the stocks in these elevators.


In view of the number of complaints that various Members of Parliament have been getting about the amount of space in country elevators, can the minister advise us how quickly the remaining seven shipping blocks still on a three-bushel general quota will be raised to four bushels, and when we can expect a further general increase for all shipping blocks?


No, Mr. Speaker. My information from the Wheat Board is that most of the blocks were in fact put on the four-bushel quota for wheat. Those which were not were ones in which space was required for barley movement or the movement of other grain. The Wheat Board makes these judgments according to the amount of grain required for market, and with the system of shipping blocks it has some confidence that the grain can be delivered in time.


Mr. Speaker, may 1 ask a related question. I raised the original question on Monday last when I asked the minister whether community pastures would no longer be opened up as has been done under PFRA. The minister indicated that I had misstated the facts. I have obtained a copy of the pamphlet issued by the minister in which he says that "any programs and policies which tend to encourage the breaking of new land would be discouraged." I wonder whether the minister wishes to correct the wrong impression he apparently left at that time and also his allegation that I misstated the facts?


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I might say that the statement which the hon. member has just quoted is correct, whereas the statement he referred to earlier was not.


May I ask the minister whether it will no longer be policy of the government to open community pastures?


Mr. Speaker, the difficulty with that question is that it goes well beyond the narrow issue contained in the other statement. The exact nature of ARDA agreements, which are very often involved and which I think the hon. member is really referring to, involves discussion between the provinces and the government. I would not want to preclude the possibility of, in certain cases, certain specific agreements being entered into.

January 21, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, my question relates to the answer the minister gave me on Wednesday with regard to his meeting with the Minister of Agriculture of Manitoba. Since the Minister of Agriculture of Manitoba has advanced a program for assistance to farmers that is obviously far superior to the stabilization program presently-


Order, please. Will the hon. member please ask his supplementary question.


Mr. Speaker, would the minister give consideration to the advantages of the alternative plan advanced by the Minister of Agriculture of Manitoba?


The hon. member's supplementary question is a representation. He has to assume that it will be taken into account. The Chair will recognize one more member for a supplementary question on this subject, the hon. member for Regina East, after which we will go to another matter.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat Board if the government, in reviewing its original proposals in the grain policy statement, is giving consideration to means whereby increasing costs can be taken into account in its stabilization proposal?


Mr. Speaker, we are of course looking at all suggestions which might be made to us, including the one put to me the other day by the Minister of Agriculture of Manitoba. Of course, while looking at it we should note that the producer contribution required for that plan would be in the order of 12 per cent.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. In view of a statement made by the Ontario Minister of Mines that the federal government has discriminated against Ontario in the matter of a regional development-grant to build a smelter for Falconbridge Nickel at Becancour, Quebec, can the minister say if Falconbridge Nickel ever applied for a grant to build a smelter in Ontario and, if so, was its application turned down?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. The hon. member is asking about events which took place some time ago. I think his question ought to be put in writing or, if it is urgent, it could be considered at the time of adjournment.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister which is related to a statement attributed to the Prime Minister in Singapore today. In one of his major contributions he delivered a lecture to his colleagues from Asia and Africa about the fact that the 1970's would be a decade of grave problems flowing from social unrest. While welcoming this belated recognition, may we also hope that it will also be reflected in a change of government policy toward the hundreds of thousands of unempoyed in this country?
$ $ ^


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of National Health and Welfare may I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the large numbers of unemployed persons, low income pension recipients and people on welfare who are provided with medical care under the medicare legislation but who have no funds to purchase drugs, and in view of the urgency of filling the prescriptions of these unfortunate persons without delay, may I ask if the minister has any plans to take care of this situation immediately?


Mr. Speaker, I will refer this matter to the Minister of National Health and Welfare who will be in the House within the next day or so.


He is supposed to be here today.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the importance of the federal-provincial welfare ministers' conference which is to begin on Monday, can he tell us what the agenda will be and whether extra assistance is to be advanced to provinces because of their rapidly depleting welfare budgets?


Mr. Speaker, I will not personally be attending that meeting. It will be attended by the federal ministers responsible. I am sure the agenda will be released as soon as it has been agreed upon. It has to be agreed to, as I think the hon. member will concede, by the provincial ministers concerned.
January 21, 1971


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Solicitor General. Can the hon. gentleman advise the House if studies now under way relating to overtime pay for the world's finest police force, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, will lead to action this year?
fTranslation]


This
matter is under very active consideration, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. Has the missing CN bus in Newfoundland, with 25 people on board, been found yet? It has been missing since yesterday. This is a most important question. This bus replaced the Bullet. We are wondering if the bus has been found, with the 25 people on board, and if we could have a report on the condition of the passengers?


Mr. Speaker, I will make urgent inquiries.
Hs *	*


Mr. Speaker, may I direct my question either to the Acting Prime Minister or to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. Has $2 million been earmarked by a Treasury Board minute for the training of college graduates and others from the province of Quebec only? If that is so, why have these funds been earmarked for graduates from Quebec only?


Mr. Speaker, I will have to take that question as notice to see what type of program is referred to. Of course, the increases which have taken place recently have been across the whole of the country. This could be true only if it related to a specific program which might not have been proposed somewhere else.
% sH


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the minister responsi-
Inquiries of the Ministry
ble for the Wheat Board. In view of the current study taking place in the agricultural industry with relation to the minister's statement last October on an agricultural stabilization program, can the minister indicate whether he is willing to accept the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool's recent recommendation that the present legislation be amended to increase the mandatory support price level to 100 per cent of the national average for the previous five years rather than the present mandatory level of 80 per cent of the national average for the past ten years?


Mr. Speaker, that question has reference to a program under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Agriculture.


Could I then direct my question to the Minister of Agriculture?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware that the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool has made that recommendation directly to my office. I will check to be sure.


I wish to address a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. Bearing in mind the efforts the government is now making to reverse the tide of unemployment, is consideration being given to employing young people this summer such as is being done in the United States on motor vehicle safety and traffic accident research and prevention?


Mr. Speaker, as far as I know this is not a part of the general programs which are being considered for this summer in particular. I will have to check with at least two departments to determine whether the federal government is taking any action or proposing anything with regard to this particular field.


My
question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Two separate studies published in the United States recently predict more violence in Canada in the near future. Can the minister say whether this subject has been discussed officially with the U.S. government? Also, can the minister say whether help was requested from or offered by the U.S. government to prevent an extension of violence in Canada?


The answer to both questions is no, Mr. Speaker.

January 21, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry HOUSING


My question is for the Minister without Portfolio in charge of housing in his capacity as the minister responsible for Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation. Can the minister inform the House as to the present situation with regard to the outstanding mortgage on Rochdale College in Toronto?


will be making a more elaborate statement on that situation in the not too distant future. In the meantime I can advise the House that the mortgagee met the payments in the last three months consecutively.


Mortgagee or mortgagor?
Hs *	*


I have a question for the Minister of Finance. It is further to my question some time ago concerning the Canadian Pacific pension plan being brought under the provisions of the Pension Benefits Standards Act. Can the minister now state whether Canadian Pacific has been required to bring their pension fund under the Pension Benefits Standards Act?


Such a letter was written to the Canadian Pacific Railway requiring this. The CPR has objected, which it is allowed to do, to the Superintendent of Insurance. The matter is presently under review.'


Can the minister state positively whether the CPR has been given a further deferral or is it now in violation of the law in accordance with this Act?


Order, please. The hon. member is asking the minister to express a legal opinion. In those terms the question is not in order.


I want to put a question to the Minister of Justice.
On December 17, I asked him whether he had any knowledge of evidence heard by the Senate sub-committee on internal security, as well as of reports and laws concerning security in the United States which were the subject of a study under the direction of Senator James O. Eastland.
The minister answered at that time that he would examine the report. Could he tell us now whether he has
read this report and deems it necessary to take action against Communist infiltration into Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I read the relevant part of the report but I do not contemplate at this time taking any action in this regard.


The House resumed, from Wednesday, January 20, consideration of the motion of Mr. MacEachen (for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development) that Bill C-193, to amend the Northern Canada Power Commission Act, be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
The hon. member for Peace River (Mr. Baldwin) on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I was intending to speak on the amendment. I assume that it may be Your Honour's intention to deliver a decision on the amendment offered by the hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Nielsen). I will defer my remarks until after Your Honour's decision.


As the hon. member for Peace River suspects, the Chair would like to make a decision on the proposed amendment offered yesterday by the hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Nielsen).
Hon. members will recall that during the course of the debate on second reading of bill C-193 yesterday, the hon. member for Yukon proposed an amendment which the Chair ruled to be not acceptable from a procedural point of view. The reasons for the decision were given at that time. The hon. member for Yukon then sought, and was granted, unanimous consent of the House to move another amendment. It might be helpful to hon. members if I briefly refer to the main motion and the amendment. The President of the Privy Council (for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development) moved:
That Bill C-193, to amend the Northern Canada Power Commission Act, be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
The hon. member for Yukon moved the following amendment:
That all the words after "that" be left out and the following inserted:
"this bill be not now read a second time but that the subject matter thereof be referred to a task force appointed under the Inquiries Act."
Hon. members will notice that the amendment proposed by the hon. member for Yukon is in the same terms as the amendment moved on January 13 by the

January 21, 1971


May I first say, as a postscript to the decision which Your Honour has just delivered, that it is my intention to accept it. Of course, I am bound to do so. However, let me say frankly, it might be helpful, it might be useful that the hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Nielsen), myself, the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) and others did exercise our ingenuity not, as I said rather facetiously yesterday, to break new ground but to improve our practice. I hope the Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Jerome) and others on the treasury benches are listening.
As a result of new rules adopted in this House we have argued on this side of the House, and I think correctly, and I think admittedly, that the rights of minorities, the rights of members of the opposition and of private members generally have been seriously restricted. That change, of course, was a direction of the House to the Chair. But it was done in the hope and belief that new precedents would be established and that the committee would from time to time examine the decisions of the Chair based on these new rules so that we could adopt procedures in this House adapted to the needs of today. Unfortunately, this has not been done. I understand the dilemma in which the Chair finds itself. The Chair is driven to resort to precedents and citations which are based on Standing Orders as they may have been 20, 30, 40 or 50 years ago. The Chair cannot break out of that corral but we are in a different situation and there should be different rules. I will leave it at that.
I hope members on the government side will recognize that if opposition parties and members are to do their duty to the people of this country, and to their constituents in particular, there must be a more flexible approach. I am not saying this in a contentious way. I think it is an important problem; what we can do in this House, the restrictions which have been placed upon us, the new way we approach legislation must be borne in mind in our attitude to the rules. I am not saying this in criticism of the Chair. The Chair is bound by precedents and citations, precedents established 20, 30, 40, 50 or even 60 years ago. In the light of the rules of today, it is like comparing apples with elephants. I am grateful to Your Honour and to the House for being allowed to transgress the rules to this limited extent.
I want to deal with this bill. I commend to the House the arguments made by my hon. friend from Yukon which are specifically related to these proposals as they affect the people of the north. He has made a reasoned and eloquent statement of the facts. He has based it on principles which we in this country and, indeed, on this continent, have held for a great many years, that when we consider the question of power rates, like taxes, there must be an equitable disposition of them. I think my hon. friend made it plain that the effect of this amendment would be to create an unfair and inequitable distribution of power rates. My hon. friend from Yukon, speaking as a spokesman for this party, carries with him the full endorsement of Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition with regard to this issue.

January 21, 1971
Northern Canada Power Commission Act
Speaking in a more general way on the subject opened up by the hon. member for Kootenay West (Mr. Harding), to some extent the Parliamentary Secretary (Mr. Buchanan) when he opened this debate took a wide approach; he gave us the background of this legislation and the reasons for it. I want to ask the House to look at one aspect in the light of an amendment I propose to make-and I have now been driven to accept the established precedents. I hope the House will take note of what I have to say. As a northerner, I flew over that part of the country many years ago. I flew over Yellowknife when it was only a gleam in some prospector's eye; I have been down the river with judicial parties years and years ago and I know something of my hon. friend's aspirations and beliefs as to what may be accomplished in that country. We want to see proper development there, but because of one or two incidents which have been brought to our notice we want to make sure that the development which is brought about is one which can be brought about without harm or damage to the people of the country, to the ecology or to the orderly development of northern Canada.
I can indicate this best by relating it to one incident connected with the development of power in the north. I am free to do so because clause four of this bill provides that the Commission may investigate projects and advise the Commission of the Territories or of the Yukon of the areas which might be served. Under this heading, it is possible for any project for hydro electric power or power derived from the use of gas which may come down from the northern part of the Territories to be devised and put into effect. The bill provides carte blanche for this Commission to investigate and engage in almost any power project. We had an example of such a project which was not in the Territories precisely. As was said by the hon. member for Yukon, this Commission is interested in power projects outside the Territories and outside the north. I recall the project for the establishment of the Bennett Dam on the Peace River, a project which was referred to by the hon. member for Kootenay West in his speech yesterday. Anyone who knows the north knows that the Peace River and the Athabasca river systems join together to form the Slave River then flow into the Great Slave Lake and thence through the Mackenzie River into the Arctic. Up to about the 59th parallel of north latitude we find an extension of the great central plain of North America.
It is the only part of the North American continent where these rivers which are susceptible of the production of power also provide a means of transportation. There are in Russia three or four rivers which provide an equal and adequate service, but we have only one in this country. This whole issue was the subject of a discussion at Yellowknife early this year. It may well be that the Parliamentary Secretary was there when people prominent in public life, scientists and others interested in the north, gathered to discuss this among other issues. What about transportation into the north? What about the use of the rivers? What about the provision of power? How can it be done? How can it be safely and economically provided. One issue which was raised very

strongly was: will it be necessary in the future, to come to a decision as to whether or not the waters of the Peace-Athabasca-Mackenzie system might well be dedicated both to the provision of transportation and also to the provision of power through hydroelectric projects. No decision was made on this, but it is an issue we shall have to face. Just today a question was asked about the establishment of a pipeline for the carriage of natural gas from the far north to the central part of this continent. So we are dealing with a major issue.
Therefore, I return to the point I started to make about the dangers that may be faced if the commission has to consider whether or not it should recommend to the government the construction of projects for the production of power. As I said, we have had a classic example of what can happen in connection with the Bennett dam on the Peace River. As the hon. member for Kootenay West, and I think also the hon. member for Brandon-Sou-ris (Mr. Dinsdale), said yesterday, here was a situation where the province of British Columbia placed across the Peace River where it passes through the Rocky Mountains a gigantic earth dam for the production of power that would be taken down to the central and southern part of British Columbia, and possibly even to the United States. This dam was initiated in the beginning of 1963. It was because I was concerned about this construction, had been in the northern part of my province as well as the Northwest Territories, and had realized the relationship between the quantity of water that would be discharged into the Mackenzie system and the construction of the dam, that I started to ask some questions in this House.
I started asking questions shortly after the session commenced in June, 1963. I asked the Hon. Paul Martin, now government leader in the other place, who at that time as Secretary of State for External Affairs was greatly concerned with this project and attempting to arrange a tripartite agreement between the United States, Canada and British Columbia, the