1 have the honour to inform the House that a communication has been received as follows:


23 June 1971
Sir,
I have the honour to inform you that the Honourable Roland A. Ritchie, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Governor General, will proceed to the Senate chamber today, the 23rd day of June, at 5.45 p.m. for the purpose of giving royal assent to certain bills.
X have the honour to be.
Sir,
Your obedient servant,
Esmond Butler
Secretary to the Governor General.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. In view of the fact that according to the Standing Orders and the notice on today's Order Paper there is to be a recorded vote at 5.45 today, which comes first-the vote to be taken by order of this House or the invitation which Your Honour has just read to us?


If I may comment on the point raised by the hon. member, Mr. Speaker, the House will, of course, proceed to the vote. The messenger from the other place will probably arrive at the appropriate moment just as the vote is concluded. I believe that is the sequence of events which will take place.


Eighth report of Standing Committee on Transport and Communications, in the two official languages-Mr. Les-sard (LaSalle).
[Editor's Note: For text of above report, see today's Votes and Proceedings. ]
Mr. Speaker, it gives me great pleasure to announce a new
service and a change in the rate structure for international letter mail that will give Canadians a better international mail service, a service appropriate to the seventies.
Extensive testing of surface letter mail has indicated that it has been taking from 20 to 40 days to reach destinations in Europe, and still longer to the Orient. This time interval is unsatisfactory. Commencing July 1, 1971, Canada will become the first nation in the world to adopt the Universal All-Up Service for international mail. This service provides that all letters up to eight ounces in weight, addressed to any foreign country (except the U.S.A.) will now be carried exclusively by air.
This service now takes from three to five days.
Prior to deciding that the Post Office should implement this improved service, we had to make a difficult decision that concerned the cost to the customer of such a service. It was imperative that any new rate structure be simple and be applied on a uniform basis on all letter class mail sent from Canada.
This meant that existing preferential surface letter mail rates to certain countries would be abolished. Canadians mailing letters internationally would be charged the same rates for the new All-Up Service, irrespective of destination.
Under the new structure, the Universal All-Up rates are as follows: (a) up to one ounce-15 cents; (b) over one ounce to two ounces-30 cents; (c) over two ounces to four ounces-40 cents; (d) over four ounces to eight ounces-90 cents. The previous air mail rates were 15 cents each half ounce to Europe and South America, and 25 cents a half ounce to Asia. Thus, a letter airmailed to Europe weighing three ounces previously cost 90 cents. Under the new service it will cost 40 cents-a reduction of over 50 per cent.
On international letters being carried by the new Universal All-Up Service, the customer must still affix a blue airmail sticker as before, even though all letters up to eight ounces are carried by air. This will ensure that these letters will be carried by air right through to their destination.

Canadian airlines, along with the airlines of other nations, have helped to make this new all-up service possible by participating in the planning and costing of the program. In addition, the Universal Postal Union has endorsed the forward step the Canada Post Office has taken.
A new category of international mail, called small packets, will also be introduced on July 1, 1971. This category will provide a more economical service for

June 23, 1971
Post Office
items weighing up to one pound. Packets containing small goods, gramophone records, recorded tapes, automatic data processing cards and similar material will be carried at a lower rate than parcel post. Many countries now have this class of mail.
Twenty-three years ago Canada was the first country to introduce domestic all-up service for first-class mail. Today I have announced another first, another milestone for Canadian postal history, one of which we should be justly proud. It is another step in our unceasing efforts to improve and update Canadian postal service.


Mr. Speaker, in accordance with the custom of the Postmaster General (Mr. Cote), since he resumed responsibility for this office he has been frank in the presentation of information. This afternoon too he has displayed his usual courtesy in providing members of the opposition with an advance copy of his announcement. We appreciate this gesture.
In the announcement the minister indicated that the service Canadians have enjoyed in respect of international mail during the past two years or so is not appropriate in the 1970s. He commented that it has required from 20 to 40 days for mail originating in Canada to reach European destinations, and even longer to the Orient. I am sure hon. members will agree that the special tests referred to by the Postmaster General were not required to demonstrate this point. Our mail has been full of complaints about long delays in international postal service for mail originating in Canada. It is interesting to note that the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau), during the press conference which just took place in Toronto, indicated that some of the mishaps that have taken place are the result of the long delays in the postal service to which the Postmaster General has referred.
The Universal Postal Union has given its blessing to this improvement in services for the 1970's. I presume other countries will be making similar announcements to that made by the Postmaster General today.
I wish the minister had left out the second last paragraph of his announcement. It reads very well to that point, and without that reference I am sure it would have received the endorsement of all hon. members. The paragraph to which I refer states:
Twenty-three years ago Canada was the first country to introduce domestic all-up service for first-class mail.
That was true more than 20 years ago, but even if Canada was the first to introduce domestic all-up mail service I presume the Postmaster General will agree that our efficiency in this regard has been slipping.
The Postmaster General has reacted in a positive way in the announcement he made today. Contrary to the maladministration of the past two or three years under his predecessor responsible for the administration of this department, I trust this will not be a case of beginning well and then sliding back in terms of efficiency. I hope it means the beginning of a better postal service which will continue to improve as the days and years go by. I hope the improvement he has indicated will be adopted by all
[Mr. Cot6 (Longueuil) .1
nations in this day and age when it has become so necessary to have increased efficiency and reliable communication.


Mr. Speaker, we in the New Democratic Party welcome the minister's announcement of this new mail service. I can confirm the statement by the minister that it often takes 20 to 40 days for mail originating in Canada to reach Great Britain and other parts of Europe. I can also confirm that it takes a considerable and perhaps equal amount of time to receive a letter in Canada originating in Great Britain. This fact is disturbing to a number of my constituents. Therefore, although the minister's statement did not mention this matter, I hope the service which Canada is initiating will be reciprocated by other countries. This is a point on which I think the minister could give some leadership in order to encourage reciprocity of service. I believe it would be helpful.
Two years ago, on behalf of my constituents I instituted an inquiry into this matter and received a report from the minister's predecessor which read in part as follows:
With respect to delay to surface mail exchanged between Canada and Great Britain, this has been due, principally, to deterioration of transatlantic shipping.
Therefore, since it is unlikely that the fast packet service will improve, I believe it is all the more desirable that the minister has proceeded in the way he has in respect of a fiat rate airmail service to Great Britain.
I have a couple of other concerns which I believe should be mentioned. I hope this improvement in international service will not be at the expense of local service. I feel there may be some subsidy here that will come out of the mail service within Canada which has been anything but improved over the past three years, as other speakers have mentioned in Post Office debates since I have been a member of the House. Hopefully, it will be possible now to send a letter to Europe overnight. If we just could get to the point where we could send a letter to Toronto overnight I think we would be in good shape. I should like to tell the minister that daily papers from the west coast of Canada to which I subscribe take over a week to reach Ottawa. Sometimes as many as six daily papers arrive on my desk on the same day even though they were mailed on separate days.
I also wish to refer to a matter of greater urgency perhaps than the international service. I believe that the Postmaster General should investigate and solve the tremendous imbalance in respect of losses occurring because of the preponderance of mail charges based on the tremendous movement of United States magazines coming into Canada. This also has been mentioned during every debate. I urge the minister to turn his great talents toward solving this problem.
We congratulate the minister for his initiative in respect of this announcement, but we urge him to dedicate himself to the bringing about of a better local service with the accent on the Post Office as a service rather than a business. We ask him to work toward the elimination of the United States-Canada magazine imbalance
June 23, 1971

which is extremely costly to the service and to abandon once and for all the out-and-out favoured treatment accorded to Time, Life and Reader's Digest.


Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to witness the establishment of an international All-Up Service which is an innovation, for the simple reason that the postal service will improve significantly in the future.
I am also convinced that this improvement will be welcomed by all Canadians.
In view of the complete reorganization of the external air mail service now taking place, it was normal that postal rates be reviewed. I think that unfirmity in this respect is an improvement and that the public will more readily understand the proposed rate structure.
The minister's statement is welcomed and I avail myself of the opportunity of urging him to continue improving the postal service and particularly domestic mail in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure today to ask for the concurrence of hon. members in the third report of the Special Committee on Environmental Pollution. My seconder is the hon. member for York West. Two days ago I tabled-


Order, please. If the hon. member will give the Chair the opportunity to put the motion I will do so at this point. Mr. Anderson, seconded by Mr. Givens, moves that the third report of the Special Committee on Environmental Pollution, presented to the House on June 21, 1971, be concurred in. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the said motion?


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. This is a very important issue. We are glad that the hon. member has been able to bring it up today, but because we are involved in the budget debate and we think that many of the facts which otherwise might be dealt with at great length can be brought up in the budget debate I have had some preliminary discussions and I understand that there is a willingness to agree that there should be one speaker from each party with a limit of ten minutes on each speech on this issue. I am making this proposal and I hope it will be acceptable.


Is it acceptable?


Agreed.


It is so ordered.
Environmental Pollution


Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure today to ask for the concurrence of the House in the third report of our committee which was presented to the House on Monday of this week. Since I am the only speaker from this side of the House I do so also on behalf of the hon. member for York West (Mr. Givens) and the other members of the committee.
Perhaps the best way to present the report is to quickly outline to hon. members what is in the report and then they can make up their own minds on how they wish to treat this issue. First, may I emphasize that we were acting under the general order of reference of this House of October 13, 1970, which provided that we were to look into the problems of pollution in the waters, soil and air of Canada and the plans of the federal government in relation thereto. Therefore we needed no specific reference to investigate the problems in southwestern Canada and, in seeking concurrence in the third report today, we fully expect to make further reports in the future on other matters of concern.
We started our inquiry by attempting to travel to the west coast, but for reasons that are perhaps irrelevant at this stage we were unable to go to the west coast. Instead, we brought a number of witnesses to Ottawa. They came from Washington, D.C., Seattle, Vancouver, Victoria, Ottawa and also Edmonton. On the whole I think they are a very fine group of people and they gave us a good understanding of the problems involved. However, we regret deeply that we were unable to speak to or hear from the officers of the corporation which is set up to move oil in the Alaska pipeline and between Alaska and the lower 48 states by tanker. I refer, of course, to the officers of the Alyeska Corporation, a consortium of seven of the world's largest companies which are engaged in this endeavour. Twice we tried to arrange a date for such evidence to be presented but twice, because of discussions which the corporation was having with the United States Coastguard, they expressed regret at being unable to come. We trust that in the future we will perhaps be able to hear from them, but in view of the fact that we are recessing shortly we thought it best to make an interim report.
The committee's efforts were devoted to finding out the risks involved in this particular area, that is, the Strait of Juan de Fuca and the Strait of Georgia and the channels between the two straits. This is the terminal in the U.S. Pacific northwest of the oil tanker route from Alaska. Hon. members heard about the traffic patterns that there are at present in that area. They heard evidence on the confined nature of the waters, and I might add at this point that they are far more confined than the area where the Arrow met with disaster in Chedabucto Bay or where the Torrey Canyon met with disaster off the English southwest coast. The committee heard evidence on the obstructions to navigation such as fog which occurs at least 60 per cent of the time in the month of August, and the problem of smoke from slash burning in the forests of British Columbia and Washington was looked into. Finally, we looked at the currents and tides in this

June 23, 1971
Environmental Pollution
area and we heard evidence on this which indicated to us once more that we were dealing not with an open body of water with relatively easy navigation but with an extremely confined and difficult body of water in which the currents run at up to seven knots.
We then heard evidence from ships' captains, pilots, practical men experienced in the problems of moving ships in those waters, and we found out that they indeed realize that if this tanker route is established a spill of perhaps massive size is inevitable in the waters.
We learned from oceanographers, both from the University of Washington and the University of British Columbia, that the general trend of the currents in the area is northward. We therefore concluded in our report that quite likely the damage done by any massive oil spill even on the American side of the international boundary line, would affect the Canadian side more than the American side.
Perhaps at this stage the best thing I could do would be to read to hon. members, with their permission, the resolution paragraph, the conclusion paragraph in our report, which I think will indicate to them the punch of the report and why we think it is important to have unanimous consent from all members of the House.
On the basis of evidence and testimony heard, the Committee is unanimous in its conclusions that if the proposed tanker route is established: (1) serious oil spills in Canadian waters and on Canadian shores are inevitable; and (2) these spills will result in substantial damage to Canadians. Further, your Committee notes that such oil shipments will offer no compensating benefit to Canadians in this area or elsewhere. Consequently, your Committee concludes that the proposed tanker route is detrimental to the Canadian national interest, and unanimously recommends that it be vigorously opposed by the Canadian government.
I wish to emphasize, Mr. Speaker, that the report of the committee was unanimous. All parties contributed to the discussions. All parties were present at varying times when evidence was heard. It was not only members from the west coast who were present. Members from other parts of Canada attended, and we thank them for coming along to take part in the consideration of what is very much a southwestern British Columbia problem.
I personally feel that this is in no way an anti-American type of resolution. I wish to dispel that thought at the outset. I personally feel that a country is obliged to prevent activities within its jurisdiction from damaging persons and property in another territory, another country, by polluting the environment. This is a limitation on sovereignty which the Canadian government has accepted and a limitation on sovereignty which I suggest other governments should accept. I repeat that we do not feel this is anti-American, because we think the American shores will be damaged, perhaps to a similar extent as our own, when this route is established.
We know that the American people themselves are split on this issue. We know that some politicians in Washington are in favour of the route, and many are against. In these circumstances we feel it is not a question
of our opposing something that is in the American interest but of Canadians making known their views on an issue on which the Americans are searching for information on which to make the best decision possible.
I might stress in closing that this is not the type of question where the Canadian people, the Canadian government and Parliament should suggest, "Well, what can we do? We will simply ask for compensation afterwards." The damage done may well be irrevocable in the area in question. The flushing action of the tides is not great. We want to make sure that damage will not occur. Therefore we came forward with the recommendations that I read a moment ago.
There are a few other recommendations, or I should say suggestions, that the government should consider. We say it should consider the advisability of certain things, and these are listed on page 5 of the committee report. They deal basically with research.
Time after time we found our committee was hampered in its consideration of this subject by lack of research, lack of knowledge on the effect of oil spilled at sea on marine organisms, lack of knowledge on oceanographic problems, and certainly lack of knowledge on alternative methods of transport, wherever they may be located, and lack of knowledge on the bacterial and micro-organic assistance that can be provided.
We have felt no hesitation in bringing this report in at this time, despite the fact that we had not heard all the witnesses that we wanted to hear. We feel the report is an honest and accurate reflection of the situation, and I urge hon. members in all parties to give it their unanimous support.


Mr. Speaker, a look at the next item in my name under routine proceedings will indicate that I am heartily in favour of this motion and will ask the House to vote concurrence in this very interesting and valuable report. I think this is one of these indications wherein the House, the people in it like the hon. member, are far ahead of the executive in taking note of and planning action upon an important matter.
I commend the hon. member, the chairman of this committee. He has given great leadership in the whole field of environmental studies, and precautionary work in reference thereto. It has appalled me how his efforts have been frustrated by those who should have supported them and advanced his causes. This is a matter, as the hon. member says, that transcends the regions of this country and the party groupings, the divisions that normally divide politicians one from the other.
For a long, long time my colleagues and I, and members from other parties, have endeavoured to impress upon the government the importance of taking vigorous initiative, of speaking clearly and distinctly to the friendly people at the U.S. ministerial level who appreciate candour and who like to be told things before it is too late.
On February 18, 1971, the hon. member for Peace River (Mr. Baldwin), the golden-voiced House leader of
(Mr. Anderson.]
June 23, 1971

our party, moved a motion under Standing Order 43 which was ruled out of order. The mellifluous member from Calgary North (Mr. Woolliams) moved another motion on March 5. It, regrettably, was not passed. We got back to our senior Solon, the hon. member for Peace River, on March 12. Again he made an effort that was unsuccessful. And in my usual humble presentation on April 2, asking the government to communicate to the government of the United States its opposition to the TAPS route, and asking that the Secretary General of the United Nations be advised also, I was as successful as the great ones of my party in this effort. And on April 22 the hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Nielsen) sought to do the same. In other words the rank and file members of this House, the chairman of the committee, members of this party and of the party to our left have been concerned about this problem.
I do hope that the adoption of this report will spur and stimulate the government to give greater attention to this matter. I was appalled the other day when I asked the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) if on June 10 this matter would be discussed between the officials in Washington and the Canadian ministerial group, the Minister of the Environment (Mr. Davis) and the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Sharp), and the Prime Minister said, "Oh, that was wrong; that was discussed on June 3. That wasn't being discussed today at all." Then we discovered on June 11 it actually was discussed, but it did not make the press release and the communique. And on June 12, if I remember the dates precisely, we had an addendum and learned that inferentially and informally the matter did come up. Mr. Speaker, it should be much more than a casual, informal matter. It is a matter of tremendous urgency.
The report of the committee, which I agree did a splendid job but which could have done even better if there had been greater research and greater co-operation, as the chairman pointed out, gives many indications of the appalling possibilities of an ecolocatastrophe on our west coast in these narrow waters. These possibilities are absolutely frightening. Some figures have been produced. Even the frequency of earthquakes in Alaska is something that of itself should cause us to be terribly concerned. The U.S. National Earthquakes Information Centre has reported that Alaska had 68 recorded quakes in 1970. So there is tremendous danger. A study of future tanker traffic in Puget Sound by the Honeywell Corporation of Minneapolis has predicted two to four tanker collisions in this area in the next ten years. Furthermore, two expert testimonies at the recent Anchorage-Washing-ton meetings have pointed out that one collision by a supertanker would turn that area of the west coast into a dead sea.
Sometimes people who are concerned about environmental protection are accused of being alarmists. But the dangers here are so great, Mr. Speaker, that we cannot be too concerned and should express our concern day in and day out. It is up to the government to indicate to
Environmental Pollution
Washington that this is not a matter which comes up after the main meetings are over; it is not a matter for an addendum; it is not an informal little affair that a few environmentalists are all worked up about; it is not a matter that only British Columbia is concerned about; it is a matter of great importance. British Columbia should have been at that meeting of June 10 and the matter should have got to the forefront of the agenda. I hope it will get to the forefront of the agenda, Mr. Speaker.
I support the hon. member in his motion and ask that the House give speedy accord to it. I am not going to speak for my full ten minutes, Mr. Speaker. I understand the leader of my party is to make a speech on the budget, and if this country ever needed good advice on economics it needs it now. So I am going to make what is a supreme sacrifice for a practical politician and give up about four minutes of my time.
This is one initiative of which this House can be very proud, Mr. Speaker. I commend the chairman of the committee and I am sure that members from all parts of this House will join in approval of his efforts and in support of his motion. I quite agree it is not a matter on which there is united opinion in the United States. I know that Senator Edmund Muskie, one of the wise men from the east-and that prevails in the United States too-has come out and expressed his concern. Let this be another indication that this House of Commons cares and may the government take note of that and begin to care a little more too.


Mr. Speaker,
let me begin where the self-sacrificing member for Hillsborough (Mr. Macquarrie) left off. One of the important reasons for supporting this motion at this time is the fact that many of us feel that it will strengthen the position of some of our friends in the United States. There are people there who are as concerned about the ecological effects of an oil tanker route down Canada's Pacific coast and into the northern waters of the State of Washington as anybody in this country. This underlines the importance of the central and indeed the only recommendation of the report which is to the effect that the committee concludes that the proposed tanker route is detrimental to the national interest and unanimously recommends that it be vigorously opposed by the Canadian government. At no time in its deliberations did the committee lose sight of the fact that in expressing concern for the Canadian interest it was also expressing the very real interest of the United States as well. I hope the position expressed by this report and by its adoption by the House will be taken in that light by the United States and will serve to modify the position taken by certain interests in that country.
The report has had a rather difficult period of entry into this House, Mr. Speaker. Indeed, it might be fair to say that the chairman of the Special Committee on Environmental Pollution has suffered prolonged birth pains in its production. Nevertheless, as one member who served on the committee and assisted in drafting the report I

June 23, 1971
Environmental Pollution
was happy today to hear him make one of his interesting speeches in the House for a change. His speech may not have been quite as interesting as some he made in other places outside the House, particularly, if I may be so bold, the speech he made some time ago in British Columbia. I am happy to note that the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Sharp) who is Acting Prime Minister today is smiling and apparently enjoying the procedure. Indeed, as he indicated yesterday, he has agreed to support early action for adoption by the House of the position indicated in the report.
Perhaps I should remind hon. members that this is by no means the first effort which has been made in the House to get an unanimous expression of opinion in opposition to the establishment of this tanker route. My colleague, the hon. member for Kootenay West (Mr. Harding), on one and perhaps two or three occasions has sought the unanimous consent of the House to have a motion passed to this end.
It is not only in the Environmental Pollution Committee that hon. members have had an opportunity to become aware of the serious implications to the welfare of our Pacific coast that such a tanker route would involve. Those of us who served on the Transport and Communications Committee recently which considered the bill on pilotage were made doubly aware of just how serious the dangers are and how urgent it is that we make every possible effort within Parliament and in representations to other governments to ensure that mammoth disasters to the resources of our sea and seacoast are prevented.
I am not going to cover the ground that has been covered by the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich (Mr. Anderson) and the hon. member for Hillsborough except to say that I agree with them. However, I should like to suggest that, while we are considering this matter which has caused concern and consternation to some of us because of the delays and apparent lack of interest in some areas, it might be appropriate at this time to clear the order paper of the whole business. I should therefore like to move, seconded by the hon. member for Skeena (Mr. Howard)-if unanimous consent is required for such an amendment I would ask for it-the following motion:
That the second report of the Special Committee on Environmental Pollution, presented to the House on Friday, March 12, 1971, be also concurred in and that item No. 63 on the orders of the day under government orders he discharged.


Order, please. I am sure the hon. member will not suggest that this motion is in order. This cannot be an amendment. It is an entirely separate motion and we cannot have two motions before the House at the same time. The hon. member may seize an opportunity, perhaps under Standing Order 43, to present this motion but he cannot do it by way of the motion now before the House.


Mr. Speaker, it is with pleasure that I take this opportunity to congratulate

the member for Esquimalt-Saanich (Mr. Anderson) for the excellent work he has done as chairman of the Special Committee on Environmental Pollution of which I was an honoured member. I eagerly second the motion.
I feel that this special committee is most important in providing Canadians with the best possible quality of air, water and environment, as all Canadians have the right to expect.
We did hear worthy and most interesting witnesses, but I would like to make a plea for better co-ordination between government departments so that, if this committee meets again, it can make good use of the experience of experts and .engineers from different departments to ensure environmental quality.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the said motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
I assume that the motion which stands in the name of the hon. member for Hillsborough will now be withdrawn.


Agreed.
Motion (Mr. Macquarrie) withdrawn.


Mr. Speaker, I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to present a motion under Standing Order 43. I feel it is urgent that this House state its unanimous opposition to the proposed flooding of the Skagit River valley and that this view be formally recorded and transmitted to the United States Government as an indication of Canada's total opposition to the proposed flooding. The three opposition House leaders have indicated that they agree to this motion being passed-


Order, please, the hbn. member knows that he cannot argue his case. He can only indicate what his motion is. I hope he will be able to present his motion without argument.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. May I conclude by saying that there is agreement that the motion will be passed without debate. I urge the government to accept this motion which will enable us to present a united front in opposition to this proposed flooding of Canadian territory. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Vancouver East (Mr. Winch):
That this House express its unanimous opposition to the proposed flooding of the Skagit River Valley in British Columbia
June 23, 1971

and that this decision of the House of Commons be transmitted to the United States Government through official channels.
Questions


['(a) (b) Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation approved a loan in December, 1968, through the Quebec Housing Corporation, to assist in the financing of the St-Magloire Home in the Municipal County of Bellechasse, in the amount of $260,000.']
Hon. members have heard the motion proposed by the hon. member for Kootenay West. Is there unanimous agreement?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity and the motion cannot be put.
* *


for leave to introduce Bill C-251, to amend the Unemployment Insurance Act (disqualification).


Is it the pleasure of the House that the hon. member shall have leave to introduce the said bill?


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, the purpose of this bill is to confirm and clarify the undoubted intent of Parliament that no action taken under the authority of the Unemployment Insurance Act in respect of an insured person qualifying for benefit should in any way be affected by such a person becoming, continuing to be or refraining from becoming a member of an organized association of workers.
The need for greater certainty, as proposed in my bill which will add a new subclause to section 61, arises from a recent decision by an unemployment insurance officer to disqualify one or more persons, otherwise qualified for benefit, on the grounds that a regulation made by the commission restricts the application of section 61. If there is any way of doing so, I would like to get unanimous consent for the speedy passage of this bill.


Order, please.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
the first reading of Bill S-14 (from the Senate), respecting the construction of an international highway bridge between Fort Frances, Ontario and International Falls, Minnesota.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)


1.	Has the government been Informed that Air Canada has borrowed the sum of $30.5 million from a British consortium of six banks?
2.	Has the government guaranteed this loan?
3.	Is the government aware of steps taken by Air Canada with Canadian financial organizations, including the Bank of Canada, to obtain such a loan and, if so, for what reason did Air Canada not succeed in borrowing from the Bank of Canada.
4.	If Air Canada has not taken such steps, what are the reasons?


1.	(a) How much money did Air Canada borrow in England recently (b) what was the rate of interest?
2.	Under what order in council was this loan approved and guaranteed by the government?
3. (a) What are Air Canada's current loans and when are they due (b) what are the rates of interest (c) what are the names of the lenders?
4.	What steps are being taken to improve Air Canada's financial situation?


June 23, 1971
Questions
craft under order from Lockheed Western Export Company.
2.	No Air Canada engines have as yet been delivered and Governor-in-Council authority respecting guarantee, provision for which is contained in Bill C-186, will be sought, as and when required, upon enactment of that legislation.
3.		Principal
Maturity Interest Amount		
As at December 31, 1970 Date	Rate	(000's)
	%	$
Demand notes -	3.5	27,000Six month revolving notes -	4.6-6.1	143,371Long term notes and debentures 1971	5.5	33,3421972	5.1	29,3401973	3.9-7.4	22,6801977	5.2	4,0201979	5.6-6.4	67,0001980	6.8-7.2	90,0001981	4.3-7.6	46,2831985	5.9	17,4971987	5.2	67,069Government of Canada	169,783	Canadian National Railways	377,819	547,6024. Air Canada is presently placing	greater	emphasis
than ever before to devising and implementing more sophisticated marketing techniques and strategy at the same time as costs in all areas are being scrutinized and strictly controlled.


Are there any programs presently available lor the establishment of low-cost housing in rural areas of Canada and, if not, is the government contemplating the adoption of such programs in the near future, and particularly in those areas within a fifty mile radius of large urban centres?


In so far as the Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation is concerned: The Provinces of Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick sponsor co-operative housing projects with financing under Section 35A of the National Housing Act. Under these programs, loans are provided at preferred interest rates to groups of individuals who wish to build their own low-cost homes in areas adjacent to major urban centres. The Province of Nova Scotia in particular has made use of this program, with some 3,200 housing units having been built since 1953.
In agreement with each of the three Prairie Provinces, there is a program providing for the financing of low-cost housing, under Section 35A of the National Housing Act, for families of low income resident in remote

northern areas of these Provinces. Most of these units are being sold to enfranchised Indians and Metis.
Other programs under Section 35A of the National Housing Act, and programs under other sections of the National Housing Act, are available for low-cost housing in rural areas of Canada, but are not designed exclusively for such purposes.
In so far as the Department of Regional Economic Expansion is concerned: Under Special Area Agreements, DREE is helping to fund low-cost housing and trailer park relocation in Sept-Iles, Quebec; mobile homes in The Pas, Manitoba; and a mobile home park in Meadow Lake, Saskatchewan. Other DREE programs help to reduce the cost of public services in many rural areas and therefore make low-cost housing more practicable.


1.	What was the total number of ships chartered by CN for their Newfoundland service during 1969-70?
2.	What were the names of the owners and the rates charged?


The Management of Canadian National Railways advises as follows: 1. 1969, 15; 1970, 17.
2.	The owners of the chartered vessels are as follows: Lake Shipping Ltd.; D. Frampton & Co. Ltd.; Winsor Trading Co. Ltd.; Nfld. Marine Services Ltd.; Avalon Trader Co.; J. Petite & Sons; Puddister Trading Co.; Puddister & Bennett Shipping Co.; Sarah Shipping Co.; Thomas Winsor & Sons; Lake & Lake Ltd.; H. W. C. Gillett Ltd.; Benhill Shipping Ltd.; North Atlantic Bulk Cargoes Ltd.; Puddister Trading Co. Ltd.; J. B. Foote & Sons; Atlantic Steam Navigation Serv.; Capt. A. Bouchard; Stephenville Shipping Ltd.; Euclide Bouchard; Edward Dawe Ltd.
The rates vary in accordance with the charter and are negotiated in so far as wage increases, etc. are concerned. In the circumstances, it is considered not to be in the Company's best interest to disclose the information.


Are taxis subject to the Canada Auto Safety Standards and, if not, for what reason?


Yes.


1.	What was the policy of Air Canada on domestic and overseas air passes for their employees up to and including the year 1970?
June 23, 1971

2.	(a) What is the present policy and which of the employee's relatives are entitled to passes (b) how many per year?
3.	How many domestic passes is an employee allowed for (a) himself (b) his wife and children (c) other family members or relatives per year?
4.	How many overseas passes is an employee allowed for (a) himself (b) his wife and children (c) other relatives per year (i) after 1 year service (ii) after 3 or 5 years service (iii) after 10 years or more service?


The Management of Air Canada
advises as follows: Employees and their dependents are entitled to free transportation depending upon the employee's years of service. The administration of this policy is considered to be a matter of internal management.


1.	Were tenders called for contract 9C-07017, November 18, 1969, Construction of building No. 213, Greenbelt Farm and, if so (a) what was the number of bids received (b) what was the highest and what was the lowest (c) what bid was accepted (d) how was the notice of tender publicized?
2.	If no tenders were submitted, what was the reason?
3.	Who was awarded the contract?
4.	If the Department of Public Works executed the contract (a) what was the cost of (i) architectural supervision (ii) engineering supervision (iii) excavation (iv) foundation (v) super structure roofing contractor and concrete supplier (vi) masonry construction (vii) interior divisions plastering and interior finish partition (viii) heating and air conditioning (ix) electrical wiring (x) plumbing and heating (b) by whom was same done?
5.	Who was the bonding company for sub contracts?
6.	With whom was the insurance placed for sub trades?


1. Yes,
(a)	Eight tenders were received and opened on November 13, 1969. (b) Highest tender, $137,800; lowest tender, $114,400. (c) Lowest tender, (d) Public advertisement- Newspapers: Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa and Hull; Heavy Construction News, Toronto; Daily Commercial News, Toronto; Journal Constructo, Ville Jacques-Cartier.
2.	Not applicable.
3.	Admiral Engineering & Construction Ltd.
4.	(a) (i) $2,522. LeBlanc & Martin, Architects. 'ii) None.
(a)	and (b) (iii) to (x) In very few cases does the Department require the general contractor to list on the tender form all the names of the subcontractors they propose using. A cost breakdown by work subdivision, as provided by the general contractor, is attached including the names of those trades which were required to be listed.
5.	and 6. The contractual arrangements are directly between the Department and the general contractor. Consequently the matter of performance bonds and in-
Questions
surance for subcontractors is the sole responsibility of the general contractor.
Cost Breakdown by Trades Construction of Building No. 213, Greenbelt Farm-
Contract 9C-07017
Permits, insurance, bonds	$ 1,200
Excavation and backfill	10,000
Concrete, forms, reinforcing steel and
finish	22,000
Carpentry, insulation, caulking	19,800
Metal siding and roofing (Ideal Roofing) 4,000 Millwork and glazing	4,500
Painting	4,000
Finishing Hardware	700
Paving	900
Miscellaneous fabricated metals	4,500
Stalls and stanchions	2,500
Operating table and light
(Arnold Maxo)	3,500
Rubber Mats	1,700
Feed tanks, auger system, bam cleaner (Central Welders and Blacksmiths)
(Beatty)	6,000
Mechanical (Andy's Mechanical)	10,600
Electric (Bisson Electric)	18,500


1.	Were tenders called for contract 9C-01421, May 5, 1969, Revisions to mechanical equipment, Environmental Laboratory, Tunney's Pasture and, if so (a) what was the number of bids received (b) what was the highest and what was the lowest (c) what bid was accepted (d) how was the notice of tender publicized?
2.	If no tenders were submitted, what was the reason?
3.	Who was awarded the contract?
4.	If the Department of Public Works executed the contract (a) what was the cost of (i) architectural supervision (ii) engineering supervision (iii) excavation (iv) foundation (v) super structure roofing contractor and concrete supplier (vi) masonry construction (vii) interior divisions plastering and interior finish partition (viii) heating and air conditioning (ix) electrical wiring (x) plumbing and heating (b) by whom was same done?
5.	Who was the bonding company for sub contracts?
6.	With whom was the insurance placed for sub trades?


1. Yes,
(a)	Nine tenders were received and opened on April 1, 1969. (b) Highest tender, $111,111; lowest tender, $73,320. (c) Lowest tender, (d) Public advertisement-Newspapers: Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa and Hull; Heavy Construction News, Toronto; Daily Commercial News & Building Record, Toronto; Journal Constructo, Ville Jacques-Cartier.
2.	Not applicable.
3.	Canadian International Comstock Co. Ltd.
4.	(a) (i) None, (ii) $2,310.-Keith Associates Limited, Consulting Engineers.

June 23, 1971
Questions
(a)	and (b) (iii) to (x) In very few cases does the Department require the general contractor to list on the tender form all the names of the subcontractors they propose using. A cost breakdown by work subdivision, as provided by the general contractor, is attached including the names of those trades which were required to be listed.
5 and 6. The contractual arrangements are directly between the Department and the general contractor. Consequently the matter of performance bonds and insurance for subcontractors is the sole responsibility of the general contractor.
Cost Breakdown by Trades
Revisions to Mechanical Equipment, Environmental Laboratory, Tunney's Pasture Contract 9C-01421
Mechanical (Canadian International Co. Ltd.)	Comstock
Coils	$7,800
Controls	9,000
Insulation	1,700
Drinking Fountain	3,800
Piping and Insulation of Heating	20,980
Refrig. No-Frost Unit and Compressor	8,500
Sheet Metal Duct	9,000
Refrigerant Piping Electrical (Canadian International	6,150
Comstock Co. Ltd.)	4,890
Fans and Motors	1,500


1.	Were tenders called for contract 8C-09954, January 13, 1969, Construction of Buildings 44B, 44C, Greenbelt Farm and, if so (a) what was the number of bids received (b) what was the highest and what was the lowest (c) what bid was accepted (d) how was the notice of tender publicized?
2.	If no tenders were submitted, what was the reason?
3.	Who was awarded the contract?
4.	If the Department of Public Works executed the contract (a) what was the cost of (i) architectural supervision (ii) engineering supervision (iii) excavation (iv) foundation (v) super structure roofing contractor and concrete supplier (vi) masonry construction (vii) interior divisions plastering and interior finish partition (viii) heating and air conditioning (ix) electrical wiring (x) plumbing and heating (b) by whom was same done?
5.	Who was the bonding company for sub contracts?
6.	With whom was the insurance placed for sub trades?


1. Yes,
(a)	Three tenders were received and opened on December 19, 1968. (b) Highest tender, $488,400; lowest tender- $423,800. (c) Lowest tender, (d) Public advertisement-[DOT] Newspapers: Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa and Hull; Heavy Construction News, Toronto; Daily Commercial News & Building Record, Toronto; Journal Constructo, Ville Jacques-Cartier.
2.	Not applicable.
3.	Admiral Engineering & Construction Ltd.
[Mr. Laing.l
4.	(a) (i) and (ii) $10,777.-Brais, Frigon, Hanley, Brett and Minty, Consulting Engineers.
(a)	and (b) (iii) to (x) In very few cases does the Department require the general contractor to list on the tender form all the names of the subcontractors they propose using. A cost breakdown by work subdivision, as provided by the general contractor, is attached including the names of those trades which were required to be listed.
5 and 6. The contractual arrangements are directly between the Department and the general contractor. Consequently the matter of performance bonds and insurance for subcontractors is the sole responsibility of the general contractor.
Cost Breakdown by Trades
Construction of Buildings 44B and 44C, Greenbelt Farm, Contract 8C-09954
Permits, Insurance and Bonds Excavation and Backfill Concrete, forms, finish and reinforcing Carpentry and Insulation Precast concrete Asphalt paving and curbs Metal siding and roofing (Ideal Roofing/ Vic Metals)
Miscellaneous Metals and lockers Millwork
Caulking and Weatherstripping Finishing Hardware (W. A. Rankin Ltd.) Painting (Cinkant)
Feed Boxes

Feed Storage Bins (Central Welders and Blacksmith)
Weigh Scale
Milk Tanks and Wash Units Air Compressor
Conveying System (De Laval Co. Ltd.) Mechanical (Andys' Mechanical Ltd.) Electrical (J. C. Robinson & Son Ltd.) Allowances-Liquid Feed System
3,500
3,600
10,000
13.000
46.000
27.000
20.000


1.	Were tenders called for contract 8C-09915, November 5, 1968 Construction of Building No. 8, Greenbelt Farm and, if so (a) what was the number of bids received (b) what was the highest and what was the lowest (c) what bid was accepted (d) how was the notice of tender publicized?
2.	If no tenders were submitted, what was the reason?
3.	Who was awarded the contract?
4.	If the Department of Public Works executed the contract (a) what was the cost of (i) architectural supervision (ii) engineering supervision (iii) excavation (iv) foundation (v) super structure roofing contractor and concrete supplier (vi) masonry construction (vii) interior divisions plastering and interior finish partition (viii) heating and air conditioning (ix) electrical wiring (x) plumbing and heating (b) by whom was same done?
5.	Who was the bonding company for sub contracts?
6.	With whom was the insurance placed for sub trades?
June 23, 1971


1. Yes,
(a)	Six tenders were received and opened on October 31, 1968.	(b) Highest tender, $221,000.; lowest tender,
$163,450. (c) Lowest tender, (d) Public advertisement- Newspapers: Montreal, Toronto, Ottawa and Hull; Heavy Construction News, Toronto; Daily Commercial News, Toronto.
2.	Not applicable.
3.	Admiral Engineering & Construction Ltd.
4.	(a) (i) and (ii) $4,135.-Brais, Frigon Hanley, Brett & Minty, Consulting Engineers.
(a) and (b) (iii) to (x) In very few cases does the Department require the general contractor to list on the tender form all the names of the subcontractors they propose using. A cost breakdown by work subdivision, as provided by the general contractor, is attached including the names of those trades which 