Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. On Tuesday and Wednesday of this week during question period, I directed a question to the Minister of Transport (Mr. Jamieson) concerning his administration of that section of the Department of Transport which is responsible for protecting the safety of the travelling public, more particularly of those Canadians who travel by air. My questions were put because of information I had received which confirmed my suspicion that antihijack detection devices had not been installed at Canadian airports. The information directly contravened a statement made by the Minister of Transport in this House on November 18. When I asked the Minister of Transport in this House on Tuesday and Wednesday to specify the action he had taken to protect the Canadian public in this regard, he replied on both occasions that the matter could not be dealt with in public.
Now, in a story printed in a Montreal newspaper this morning, the Montreal Gazette, the minister is quoted as telling reporters outside the House yesterday that "an additional 20 or 25 devices have arrived or are on the way". This is another example of the increasing tendency of ministers to refuse to answer legitimate questions in this House, but to make statements outside this House on ^he same day giving the information that was requested in the House.
If Your Honour confirms this breach of privilege I will move, seconded by the hon. member for Peace River (Mr. Baldwin):
That the matter of this question of privilege in relation to the proper interpretation and to the continuing force and effect of Standing Order 5 be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections.
My reason for this motion is that under the roster system I am denied the right to examine the minister, who is not in the House today, on information he gave outside the House yesterday which was denied in the House and then made public.


The hon. member for St. John's East (Mr. McGrath) has given the Chair due notice of his intention to raise his stated question of privilege and, in the time available to me, very careful consideration has been given to that matter.
It does seem that the hon. gentleman's question may be broken into two parts. In the first instance, the hon. member refers to statements or utterances made outside the chamber. As the Chair stated on December 23 last, a
prima facie question of privilege cannot be founded on a statement outside this chamber. I can find nothing in any authority or practice to support the proposition made in this regard by the hon. member.
Second, the hon. member suggests that when a reply to a question is refused in the House for security reasons it becomes a question of privilege when the same information is given the same day outside the House. That is a very interesting proposition, but I do not think it is founded on any precedent or practice of this House. May I refer the hon. gentleman to sections (3) and (4) of citation 181 of Beauchesne's Fourth Edition which read as follows:
(3)	A minister may decline to answer a question without stating the reason for his refusal, and insistence on an answer in out of order, no debate being allowed. A refusal to answer cannot be raised as a question of privilege, nor is it regular to comment upon such refusal. A member can put a question, but has no right to insist upon an answer.
(4)	An answer to a question cannot be insisted upon, if the answer be refused by the minister on the ground of the public interest; nor can the question be replaced on the notice paper. The refusal of a minister to answer on this ground cannot be raised as a matter of privilege.
The hon. gentleman may have a legitimate grievance, but that is not a matter for the consideration of the Chair. It seems to me that such a grievance can be raised in a number of proceedings or by a number of avenues available to hon. members. In particular, it can be raised during supply proceedings, where the House itself will be in a position to deal with the grievance.
I do not think that privilege proceedings should be used to supplant other recognized and more relevant procedures for the resolving of grievances.


Mr. Speaker, I too rise on a question of privilege. The question of privilege which I raise is one of the greatest importance to all members of this House. It involves the contempt of Parliament displayed by the government in respect of the government's action as revealed in the documents published in the Globe and Mail of today's date and which show that the government has taken and proposes to take action with respect to northern development and the native peoples of the north without securing legislative authorization.
I will therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Edmonton Centre (Mr. Paproski):
That the subject matter of this question of privilege be referred to the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development.


The hon. member for Mackenzie has also given the Chair the notice required under the provisions

December 30, 1971
Northern Development
of Standing Order 17(2). After giving the matter serious thought, I have to advise the hon. member that I would find it extremely difficult to agree that we have before us a prima facie case of privilege. Successive Speakers have been required to give a definition of parliamentary privilege. In most instances, the Chair has alluded to the definition given by Sir Erskine May which is to be found at page 42 of the 17th Edition of this author's work on parliamentary practice. The learned author states:
Parliamentary privilege is the sum of the peculiar rights enjoyed by each House collectively as a constituent part of the High Court of Parliament, and by members of each House individually, without which they could not discharge their functions, and which exceed those possessed by other bodies or individuals.
Parliamentary privilege is also defined as:
The sum of the fundamental rights of the House and of its individual Members as against the prerogatives of the Crown, the authority of the ordinary courts of law-
The question is whether in the circumstances described there has been a prima facie breach of the rights and immunities of members of the House of Commons. I suggest to the hon. member and to the House that essentially the hon. member for Mackenzie is inviting the Chair to determine a question of law in respect of certain administrative actions by the government. I am unable to see how in such circumstances the Chair can be called upon to consider the matter on the basis of breach of parliamentary privilege.
I might add that even if there had been, in the opinion of the Chair, a prima facie case of privilege the hon. member's motion could not have been accepted procedurally because it proposes simply that, and I quote: the subject matter of this question of privilege be referred to the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
This, in itself, is an indication that what the hon. member wishes to have considered is the government's administrative actions which could quite properly be considered by the Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development, while a matter of parliamentary privilege ought to be considered by the Committee on Privileges and Elections.
For these reasons, the Chair is not free to put to the House the motion proposed by the hon. member for Mackenzie.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to inform the House that the representatives of the several parties have reached an agreement with regard to the proposed allotment of time for the disposition of the report stage and the third reading stage of Bill C-176. May I say, Mr. Speaker, that the making of the motion has been preceded by consultations with the parties opposite. It is proposed that when motion

No. 1 is before the House again, the government will be moving an amendment to that motion which has been the subject of discussions between the official opposition and the government, and that when the House is considering Motion No. 27 there will also be an amendment submitted by the government which has been the subject of discussions with the New Democratic Party. Also, within this motion, the rights of the Social Credit Party with regard to their wish to participate at certain stages of the debate have been fully protected.
Accordingly, Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 75a, I move, seconded by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Benson):
That when the consideration of Bill C-176, an act to establish the National Farm Products Marketing Council and to authorize the establishment of national marketing agencies for farm products, is resumed in this day's sitting, the House shall first consider motions (1), (5) and (22), including any amendment to be proposed and, then, to any amendment that may be proposed to clause (18) of the bill, and next to motion numbered 27, and any amendment that may be proposed thereto.
At the expiry of 90 minutes, if required, for the discussion of each of the above item or items stated in paragraph (1) of this motion, every question necessary to conclude consideration of the specified item or items shall be forthwith put and any recorded division, if demanded, shall be deferred.
If the items listed in paragraph (1) are concluded prior to 10 p.m., the House will revert to motion numbered (2) and continue to consider other motions in the sequence listed on the Notice Paper.
That during the further consideration of the report stage of the said bill, no member may speak longer than 10 minutes at any time.
At 10:00 p.m., Mr. Speaker shall put forthwith and successively every question necessary to dispose of the report stage of the said bill.
After the disposal of the report stage of the said bill, the House shall proceed forthwith to the consideration of the third reading and passage stage of the said bill, and shall continue to sit until proceedings thereon have been concluded, and during such proceedings no member may speak longer than 20 minutes at any time.
Mr. Speaker, I forgot to mention one point, that is that the Minister of Agriculture will be seeking to make an amendment to clause 18 of the bill, the subject of which is well known to members of the House.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. It arises out of Standing Order 75A which reads in part:
-there is agreement among the representatives of all parties ... setting forth the terms of such agreed allocation; and every such motion shall be decided forthwith, without debate or amendment.
My question of privilege is to obtain from you, Mr. Speaker, a statement on the position of an independent private member in this House. Has he any status at all under this part of our Standing Order?


The question asked by the hon. member is somewhat hypothetical. I think that if it were asked by the Speaker, perhaps it might have practical implications. If I must rule on the question asked by the hon. member, which I consider to be hypothetical at this point, my understanding is that the Standing Order has been drafted in such a way that the parties recognized as parties in the House would be the ones which would have to be recognized for the purpose of interpreting Standing Order 75A, B and C. I am not sure whether that is the way the
December 30, 1971

Standing Order should have been drafted, but certainly it is drafted in such a way that the Chair must take into account what must be considered by the House, in accordance with the practice and precedents, to be the recognized parties of the House. I appreciate the difficulty where one, three, five or ten independent members of this House are opposed to the motion proposed by the President of the Privy Council. In a way their rights would not be given the same recognition as those of other hon. members who are represented by a representative of the parties as provided by the Standing Order. My answer to the hon. member would be that I have to deal only with the representatives of existing parties as indicated in the Standing Order.


I now rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. I do so for the purpose of moving what I call a privileged motion. I move under Standing Order 24, seconded by the hon. member for Battle River (Mr. Downey):
That Orders of the Day be now read.
I would like to add, "in particular order No. 90", but if that part of my motion takes away from the first part, I will omit it.


Order, please. After a brief consideration and consultation, my interpretation and understanding of Standing Order 75 are that it directs that the motion be put forthwith. I would think that the motion proposed by the hon. member, being a superseding motion, would have to be moved while there is a matter under debate by the House, and could not be put by way of a point of order. The hon. member himself indicated that he rose on a point of order. According to the precedents, he cannot move a superseding motion on a point of order. Perhaps later on the hon. member might have some other remedy, but at this point I doubt that his motion is acceptable procedurally.


Mr. Speaker, while I have been an interested spectator for the last few minutes, I have been wondering about one aspect of the motion which the President of the Privy Council has put. I know it is not debatable, and not amendable. I accept that. However, the hon. gentleman did make a very short statement at the beginning, prior to putting the motion, and I am simply seeking guidance with respect to it. I intend to respond very briefly to that statement, and while we are feeling our way I will put it in the hands of the Chair to cogitate whether I am entitled to do so.


If hon. members want to allow the hon. member for Peace River to make a statement, there is certainly no objection on the part of the Chair. But again the Standing Order is clear. The Chair must be guided by Standing Order 75A which requires that the motion be put without debate. If hon. members allow the hon. member for Peace River to make a statement, I just wonder how the Chair could legitimately and equitably prevent other hon. members from making statements. However, I am in the hands of the House. Is there agreement?


Agreed.
Business of the House


It is agreed that the hon. member for Peace River has the unanimous consent of the House to make a statement in response to the statement made by the President of the Privy Council.


My comments simply refer to the addenda which the President of the Privy Council produced in regard to the amendment which the Minister of Agriculture was going to move. This was quite correct. I simply want to say that it is our distinct understanding that the minister will attempt to secure, by all means possible, consent to putting before the House the amendment, of which we are aware, but that if he is unsuccessful, if the practices and procedures of the House do not permit this amendment by the Minister of Agriculture, and again I say that we are aware of the contents of it, there will be an undertaking given that at the earliest possible opportunity the government will introduce amending legislation to bring this about. Because we are talking about agreements on which this motion is founded, I did think I was entitled to make this very brief comment.


Mr. Speaker, first may I confirm the statement of the President of the Privy Council that this motion is before us because the representatives of all of the parties have agreed to it. I might add that the consultations, although very lengthy, have been amicable, and indeed now appear to have been fruitful.
However, on closely reading the text of the motion-and perhaps I should raise this as a point of order-I think there is one point on which we had agreed which has not been included. We agreed not only that the debate on motion No. 1 on clause 18 and on motion No. 27 would be limited to 90 minutes, but that if those were cleared and we had remaining time between that time and ten o'clock, that any other motion would be considered for only 90 minutes. Thus, the whole afternoon or evening would not be spent on one of those motions. It is true that the minister showed us the statement at about five minutes to two, but at that time I did not notice the omission. I believe he will agree with me that our agreement would be reflected more accurately if at the end of paragraph 3 these words were added:
-provided that the consideration of any such motion shall not exceed 90 minutes.
While the minister is noting that, I may say that I thought we also understood that we would use Private Members' hour for this purpose today but maybe it was not intended to put that in the actual agreement but rather to deal with it when five o'clock comes. However, I do think that the point I made a moment ago should be included in the motion.


I just want to confirm, regarding negotiations which have been held this morning, that we have given our agreement concerning the motion introduced a few minutes ago.


Order, please. Perhaps by consent we might allow the hon. member for Joliette to speak. This, of course, has to be done by consent because I assume we are now hearing statements under the terms of the Stand-

December 30,1971
Business of the House
ing Order which would allow representatives of parties in opposition to speak in response to a ministerial statement. By consent the hon. member for Joliette; is this agreed?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I do not wish to interfere with agreements reached this morning by the various parties. However, it was said that all hon. members have been informed by the House leaders of amendments to be introduced by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Olson). But I must say that I am not aware of these amendments for some reason, and if unanimous consent was requested, I should like to know about the amendments before letting the House take an unanimous decision concerning this bill.


The point made by the hon. member is well taken, of course, and we will meet that very real problem whenever that kind of amendment is proposed by the hon. Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Olson). If at any point unanimous consent is required, of course, any hon. member can object, including the hon. member for Joliette.


May I say in reply to the comments made by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) that it is quite agreeable that this change be incorporated at the end of paragraph 3 of the motion as indicated by the hon. member.


The motion, then, would read as follows:
That when the consideration of Bill C-176, an act to establish the National Farm Products Marketing Council, is resumed in this day's sitting, the House shall first consider motions (1), (5) and (22), including any amendment to be proposed and, then, to any amendment that may be proposed to clause (18) of the bill, and next to motion numbered (27), and any amendment that may be proposed thereto.
At the expiry of 90 minutes, if required, for the discussion of each of the above item or items stated in paragraph (1) of this motion, every question necessary to conclude consideration of the specified item or items shall be forthwith put and any recorded division, if demanded, shall be deferred.
If the items listed in paragraph 1 above are concluded prior to ten o'clock p.m., the House will revert to motion numbered (2) and continue to consider other motions in the sequence listed on the notice paper, provided that the consideration of any such motion shall not exceed 90 minutes.
That during the further consideration of the report stage of the said bill, no member may speak longer than ten minutes at any time;
At ten o'clock p.m., Mr. Speaker shall put forthwith and successively every question necessary to dispose of the report stage of the said bill.
After the disposal of the report stage of the said bill, the House shall proceed forthwith to the consideration of the third reading and passage stage of the said bill, and shall continue to sit until proceedings thereon have been concluded, and during such proceedings no member may speak longer than 20 minutes at any time.
Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the said motion?


Agreed.


Carried.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to inform the House of an important change in the Canadian Dairy Commission's holdback policy on payment to shippers of manufacturing milk and cream. This change will further improve the returns of dairy producers.
There has been some question of the necessity of a higher rate of holdback on over-quota deliveries in a situation where butter production this year will be slightly below Canadian requirements.
The Dairy Commission has consulted closely with dairy producer organizations on this. The consensus is that if the supply management system on which the dairy industry is embarked, and which has been of considerable benefit to producers this year, is to work effectively there has to be some significant charge to discourage excess production when appropriate. However, as a special measure in the circumstances of this year the payment programs will be adjusted to allow producers a margin of deliveries in excess of their quotas before the over-quota rate of holdback is applied.
In provinces under market quotas the holdback is made from market payments to producers, based on their market quotas. This applies at present to Ontario, Quebec and, since December 1, to Prince Edward Island. In these, the adjustment will permit a producer to exceed his market quota ten per cent before the over-quota holdback is applied.


This is just election bait.


Elsewhere, the holdback is made from subsidy payments, based on each producer's subsidy quota.
If all provinces were under market quotas, the national total of the subsidy quotas would be about 70 per cent of the total market quotas. For this reason, there will be a larger allowance for over-quota deliveries where the holdback is made from subsidy payments. The adjustment will permit producers in provinces not under market sharing quotas to exceed their subsidy quotas by 30 per cent before the over-quota rate of holdback is applied.


Do not forget the sheep men. They want their subsidy back.


This arrangement will apply both to manufacturing milk and cream.
I wish to stress that this is a special arrangement for the dairy year ending next March 31; dairy producers should not interpret this as indicating that a similar arrangement will apply next year.


This announcement is being made just for the election. The minister should give the sheep men back their subsidy. They will not vote for the government unless he does.


This is nothing but election blackmail.


Yes. This is election blackmail.
December 30, 1971


Mr. Speaker, I will not go into the question of whether or not the supply-management concept should be applied to agricultural products. It appears that that concept, as operated under the Dairy Commission and under this minister, has not worked out too well.


Hear, hear!


It has been an obvious failure.


The statement the minister made today amplifies the statement that was made about three weeks ago in this regard. I submit that if there is to be a supply-management operation in this country, it ought to come under the Canadian Dairy Commission and, as well, under the control of the Canadian dairy producer. It seems to me that much more work must be done in finding markets and the Canadian Dairy Commission ought to explore export markets for dairy products produced in this country.
I know that a great deal of money was deducted from the payments for surplus milk in order that producers could gain the markets that we now enjoy. We acquired those markets by using the producers' own money. At the same time, however, we told them to cut back production. Now we have the markets but we do not have enough product to fill the demand in those markets, and consequently the dairy producers of this country have been losing millions and millions of dollars.


Let no more small farmers be driven out of business before the election.


May I also say that our Canadian cheese is selling well. Nevertheless, for a considerable period of time the cheese factories have encountered great difficulties. I know that factories in Ontario, and factories in other provinces as well, are having a difficult time filling the demand for cheese. This has meant losses to farmers. They could have earned extra money from exports. These difficulties, of course, have affected the smaller cheese factories which could not keep up their levels of production.


The government wants to take them out of production.


I see that you are about to rise, Mr. Speaker. I am not supposed to speak for a longer time than the minister spoke. Sometimes I think he makes his statements brief so that we must be brief. I suppose he has done so to protect himself, ever since Your Honour's ruling on this matter.
The milk processing plants have been facing difficult times because of the shortage of milk. The markets are there for us, but now we are short of butter. We are away behind in our efforts to meet the demand. I say to the minister that his announcement allowing producers to raise their production levels before over-quota holdbacks are applied has come too late. He should not have waited until an election is almost upon us before making it. That is not the way the people of his department should operate. They should operate in a way that will be of benefit to all producers and make sure that farmers in Canada get 24725-58
Manufacturing Milk and Cream Policy
as much money for their agricultural products as possible at all times.


Mr. Speaker, we would have appreciated it if, in the statement, there had been an indication of how great the reduction in the holdback is to be. It is generally well known, I presume, that the holdback can run as high as $2.40 per hundred pounds for over-quota deliveries. This has been a serious factor in the expansion of the manufacturing milk industry. Of course, the minister's statement raises two questions. Has the holdback been too high, and is the purpose of the holdback to restrict the amount of manufacturing milk produced? This restriction has been made effective in two ways. First, that has been done by imposing a holdback of $2.40 per hundredweight and, secondly, by eliminating a large number of very small farmers in the country. That is how the supply-management concept has been operated. It is the type of management that will become available under the piece of legislation that we will be discussing later today. All this raises a problem. We must ask whether there is a close enough relationship between levels of production and the needs of the market on a national basis.
For instance, a shortage of milk has developed in Canada. So great is that shortage that we are paying to the United States at present 64.5 cents per pound, plus transport charges, for 10 million pounds of butter. There has not been such a shortage in Canada for many, many years. The shortage is evidence, of course, of the fact that the supply-management program has worked. However, it has worked at considerable cost to the Canadian dairy industry, both through the loss of small farmers and the $2.40 holdback which has been imposed. This has meant that in the area you represent, Mr. Speaker, and in other areas of eastern Canada, a number of cheese factories have had to close as well as other outlets that handle the surplus production of the Canadian dairy industry.
I suggest that the Dairy Commission should assess the present domestic and export markets for dairy products and assess, as well, what the long term needs of both domestic and export markets will be. It seems to me that, as a Christmas present to the country, the minister could, through the Dairy Commission, have allowed a number of young farmers, under suitable conditions and regulations, to make their contribution to the market at this time. It seems to me that the minister had an opportunity for allowing the small farmers to get back into the business. I am pleased to say that the Canadian Dairy Commission has given consideration to this aspect of the business in a pronouncement that it made recently. I suggest that the farmers are waiting to see how much the reduction holdback will be. We, too, will await that announcement with considerable interest.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to comment very briefly on the statement the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Olson) has just made to the House.
We are advised that quotas will be changed by 10 per cent during the winter months, that is, during the season

December 30, 1971
Manufacturing Milk and Cream Policy
when production is at its lowest point. Still, I am pleased that some producers will benefit from it, although it will certainly not be the greatest number. The minister indicates it will be. He has, I am sure, data that I do not have at the present time. If such is the case, I am very happy that it was decided to do something to allow an increase in that production.
I hope that some day-that is the wish that I make-the Canadian Dairy Commission can somehow act as a thermostat in a house. In a house, a good thermostat works automatically. When it works well, it can maintain the temperature that corresponds to the needs of the household. It is automatic. It must be set properly.
I hope that the Canadian Dairy Commission will one day adjust itself to the situation in order to allow an increase in the winter production, so that the dairy industry may operate year round and not only according to the needs of the market. In this connection, I disagree with the Minister of Agriculture, because I always conceive production in terms of consumption needs. However, since consumption is dependent on purchasing power, it happens at a given time, especially in 1971, that the whole purchasing power of the people and families is considerably decreased and the demand is then lower.
I therefore suggest that we should be ready just the same to maintain a powerful dairy industry which will be in a position not only to satisfy the needs of our domestic market, but also those of the international market.
That is why it will be necessary to hasten to apply a policy which will encourage dairy producers to maintain an organization and, at the same time, to follow closely the data made available to the producers concerned, in order to be able to maintain their operations at the required level.
I am hopeful that, following the establishment of the guaranteed minimum annual income, purchasing power will be in line with the needs of the people and, at that time, the dairy industry will be able to develop, and the family farms that have been ill-treated, at least those that will remain, will be able to continue to survive and also to develop.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to move a motion under the terms of Standing Order 43. Because of the time of the year, and the spirit of co-operation which is being shown today, I believe my motion will commend itself to hon. members, particularly as it is couched in the most amiable and uncontroversial terms.
The urgent and pressing necessity for this motion to be moved is related to the disclosure in the Globe and Mail today that so-called confidential cabinet documents have been revealed. The large number of these leaks and the variety of subjects covered brings into question the need to have legislation defining and clarifying the duty of the

government to provide Canadians with information concerning the conduct of public business.
If consent is given-as I assume it will be-I would therefore move:
That the government, at the beginning of the next session, shall introduce legislation regarding freedom of information for the people of Canada, either in the manner set out in Bill C-250 or in such similar form as may be appropriate.


Hon. members have heard the motion proposed by the hon. member for Peace River. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


The motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce and pursuant to Standing Order 41(2) I wish to lay on the table of the House, in both official languages, a report on an inquiry respecting sweaters, cardigans and pullovers.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43, and likewise taking into account the publication today of some government documents relating to northern development policy, and living in the same hope as was the hon. member for Peace River, that my motion, being a generous and friendly one, may be accepted by the government, I ask leave to move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That this House commends the government and in particular the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development for making available to the public cabinet documents relating to northern development policy and expresses the hope that other cabinet ministers will see the merit and wisdom of such a course of action and thus contribute to a curtailment of unnecessary government secrecy about matters so obviously of value and interest to Canada and its people.


Oh, oh!


I have serious doubts as to the propriety of the motion from a procedural point of view, but rather than spend the rest of the day on a procedural debate as to whether the motion should be accepted by the Chair or not, and without ruling whether it is acceptable or not, I will ask whether there is unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?
December 30L 1971


Agreed.


No.


The question cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, under the terms of Standing Order 43 I propose a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity, one which is of interest to all members of the House.
The Chairman of the Public Service Commission is presently being used willingly as a tool of those in government who seek to subvert the merit system in the service and institute in its place hiring practices based on race, language-


Order.


Order. The hon. member knows there have been a number of rulings that Standing Order 43 cannot be used for the purpose of making allegations which, by virtue of the nature of the Standing Order, cannot be answered. The hon. member can indicate why there is urgency, why we should dispense with the notice requirement imposed in the usual course by our Standing Orders, and then state the terms of his proposed motion. He cannot argue, or make allegations or accusations.


With all respect, Mr. Speaker, I am only giving reasons for the motion, as has been done before.


I do not wish to debate with the hon. member, but he will appreciate that the Chair is placed in a very difficult position. I have suggested on other occasions to hon. members that Standing Order 43 should be used only in special circumstances. Standing Order 43 is there for the exclusive purpose of putting into the hands of individual members of the House an instrument whereby they can dispense with the 48-hour notice period which is ordinarily imposed on the government and others for the protection of the House and of all hon. members. When hon. members think that this protection should not be available in special circumstances, the motion can be put. But the Standing Order should not be used as a vehicle to argue a case, to make submissions or to make allegations which, because of the very nature of the Standing Order, remain on the record and to which no opportunity for a reply is provided.


My remarks will be explanatory, Mr. Speaker. I am coming to the motion itself. The Chairman of the Public Service Commission has in many cases played outright favouritism.


Order.


He has brought the high office of Chairman of the Public Service Commission under a cloud-
Public Service


Order. The hon. member for Selkirk rises on a point of order.


I rise on a point of order to ask your advice, Mr. Speaker. Is any protection afforded by this House to a public servant against unprincipled attacks upon him to which he has no right of reply?


That is obviously the point the Chair was making a moment ago. I really do not know how we can deal with a situation such as this when an individual from either side of the House, or from any party, seeks to move a motion under Standing Order 43 which contains allegations and accusations against, for example, another hon. member, or a member of the government, or against a civil servant high or low. The motion being under Standing Order 43, there is no possibility of anyone replying. I suppose there is always another side to any story or proposition. I think there is obviously something wrong from a parliamentary standpoint when an hon. member standing in his place makes an accusation which cannot be debated or considered under the terms of the Standing Order. I really have very serious doubts as to whether that can be done.


I am coming to my motion, Mr. Speaker. I expect it will be debated very soon. I move, seconded by the hon. member for Leeds (Mr. Code):
That this House do press the government to take steps to remove Mr. John Carson from office as chairman of the Public Service Commission, and to appoint in his place a chairman who will carry out his duties in accordance with the provisions of the Public Service Employment Act.


Order, please. I suggest that the motion proposed by the hon. member is a very good indication that the terms of Standing Order 43 should be looked at very closely by the Standing Committee on Procedure and Organization.


Hear, hear!


That committee is comprised of representatives of all parties. It contains very senior members. It is interested in consideration of matters which are important, such as televising our procedure, but, in my view, there are other matters which are even more important such as Standing Order 43. I invite the committee to look at the operation of that Standing Order if it is going to be used in the way it is being used at this time. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


I rise on a point of order. May I ask that when this investigation of Standing Order 43 is conducted Your Honour consider the fact that it is now used prevalently because of the absence of ministers under the roster system.


Hear, hear!


Order, please. I hope that the committee will consider all aspects, including the representation made by the hon. member.
10852

December 30, 1971
Inquiries of the Ministry


There are no ministers over here yet, but just wait a few months.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. I do not appreciate the Whip of the loyal opposition accusing ministers of not being in the House when they have been in the House quite frequently lately.


Oh, oh!


While the Leader of the Opposition and the leader of the New Democratic Party are on holidays, we are dealing with the business of the House.


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!


May we have order, please. The hon. member for Peace River (Mr. Baldwin) has the floor. We have reached the period of oral questions.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker, for giving me this opportunity to demonstrate that the opposition will ask adequate questions. Hopefully, we will receive adequate replies. My question is for the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister able to give any better assurance than he has in the past that the investigations into the source and manner of cabinet leaks has reached the point where he can undertake that there will be no further leaks?


Of course, Mr. Speaker, I cannot commit the future conduct of any individual. I can re-assert that the government is making an investigation into each one of these leaks. I asked every one of my ministers to look carefully in their department. I told the House last week that with the tons of documents circulating in the government service which are available to so many people, as long as there are crooks and people who condone crooks, this kind of thing will be happening. I do not think the opposition should be complaining.


I wish to direct my supplementary question to the Minister of Justice. In order that we may have some assurance that something will be done to bring an end to these leaks, is the minister prepared to give an undertaking to the House that at the beginning of the next session he will introduce legislation with regard to freedom of information, a matter which he strongly advocated outside the House?


There will be a lot of priorities for House time next session, Mr. Speaker.


My question is to the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister seek advice from his colleagues with regard to the Copyright Act so that the government would be prepared to file a claim for copyright against the Globe and Mail when they publish these government documents?


Mr. Speaker, I am afraid this would not only be a legal matter, but it would involve a much broader question of social impact. I think the government would have to consider not only the legal aspect of it, but all the other aspects.


A supplementary question. Will the Prime Minister say what reason there can be for failing to publish as a white paper or table in the House the cabinet committee report on a policy for northern development in the next decade, so that the public and this Parliament can know and discuss this important policy?


Mr. Speaker, if the public and the opposition want to take cognizance of everything the government is doing when it is establishing goals and so on, we think this would be a very welcome step. You just have to listen to speeches of ministers, statements made by the ministry and the policies we adopt to realize what our general goals are and what objectives this government is trying to pursue. All the time there are documents within cabinet to establish, generally speaking, the goals and objectives of this government. We do not publish all of them. We publish the policy positions and the programs which flow from these objectives. We do have guidelines, and we hope the opposition also have some.


A supplementary question. May I ask the Prime Minister the reason for keeping secret this particular document which is of such great importance.


There is no reason, Mr. Speaker. I repeat, this particular document and probably dozens and dozens of other documents are of very great interest. I hope some way will be found to make them known to the Canadian public so that they will know.


Isn't that lovely?


Yes, isn't that lovely. I am glad I have the support of the lovely member over there.


A supplementary question. Since there have been no less than six leaks in the past six weeks, and since it appears the government has got nowhere in its investigation, I ask the Prime Minister whether the RCMP is investigating this
December 30, 1971

very serious matter or is the Prime Minister simply allowing each department to investigate?


Mr. Speaker, the traditional way in dealing with this has been followed by the government, that is asking each minister to ensure that there be a complete departmental investigation before calling in the police.


As six weeks appears to be a more than adequate time to reach a solution of this matter, will the government now consider putting the RCMP in charge of this investigation?


I will consider that, Mr. Speaker. I thank the hon. member for wanting me to put the police on those who publish leaks.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister whether he is considering making Mr. George Bain a member of the Privy Council so he will be sworn to secrecy before he discloses all the rest of the documents he seems to have, or does the government prefer it the way it is?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister. Was the July 29 policy framework based on any formal and specific consultation with the territorial governments and the native people of the north, and if not, are talks now going to be held to formulate with them a framework for northern development?


Mr. Speaker, the minister principally responsible, as well as various other ministers, are in consultation with the responsible authorities in the north when they have any aspects of policy or programs to implement. The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development is, of course, in constant communication with the authorities in the territorial governments.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a supplementary to the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister inform the House whether or not the cabinet decision made last June on the policy for northern development is still government policy or whether the government has revoked it in the meantime.
Inquiries of the Ministry


I am not
quite sure what policy the member is referring to, Mr. Speaker.


A further supplementary, Mr. Speaker. I am referring to the disclosure in the newspapers, specifically the Globe and Mail, of a northern policy.


Mr. Speaker, I would have to read that paper to be able to answer the member completely, but my understanding and the explanation I received is that it was not a cabinet decision but a memorandum which was reproduced in part in that paper.


Order, please. Hon. members have supple-mentaries to this question and we will return to this in a moment. In the meantime, however, the Chair will recognize the hon. member for Bellechasse.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question to the minister responsible for the Canadian Wheat Board.
Hundreds of Quebec farmers and producers came to Ottawa last week and made representations to the minister regarding the price spread for feed grain between eastern and western Canada. Could the minister tell us if after such representations he will very soon make a statement in the House in that respect?


Mr. Speaker, I think it is generally agreed that the existence of low or distress prices for feed grains in the Prairie provinces is an undesirable thing for many reasons, including the interests of the Prairie grain producers as well as of meat producers all across this country. It is our hope to find solutions to this problem, not by spreading the distress prices further but by trying to eliminate them wherever they exist.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a supplementary.
Does the hon. minister mean that he is in favour of having a difference between feed prices for consumption in the west and feed prices for consumption in the east?


Mr. Speaker, what I was indicating was that the problem of too low a price for feed grains in the west was a matter of real concern. There has been some recent improvement with the record sales of barley and wheat which have bolstered the prices in the Prairies. This has eased, to some extent, the immediate problem. We feel we should look at the problem, however, more broadly. Some of the solutions lie in the hands of the provinces which have jurisdiction over producer to producer sales in the

December 30^1971
Inquiries of the Ministry
provinces, and it will be my hope to have consultations with these governments in an effort to find a solution.


I believe the hon. member for Selkirk has a supplementary to the previous question.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister if he has given consideration to creating, at the next session of Parliament, a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the whole question of the secrecy of government documents, modelled on the committee which was established to look into statutory instruments and which produced such good results.


Mr. Speaker, I doubt whether such a committee of inquiry will be necessary. The principles involved are very simple. Some operations must be conducted in secret if the government is to receive the best possible advice. This is inevitable. There are other subjects which can be made known to the public. As I was saying to the hon. member for Greenwood, there are some memoranda, when they have passed cabinet and been approved, which could very well be made known to the Canadian public, the publication of which would be in their interest as well as the interest of the government.
But what is lacking in the government is not a desire to make a lot of this material public, it is the time required and the ministerial time required to go through this very voluminous material and decide what should be made public and when. I am very hopeful the day will come when Information Canada will be publishing a lot of the very good work which is going on in the government.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Solicitor General, who has always had a good attendance record, and not just lately. May I ask the minister, in connection with the apparent departure of the convicted murderer Yves Geoffroy, who was released from St. Vincent de Paul penitentiary to get married, if the minister or his officials or the National Parole Board have had any consultations on this matter.


Order, please. The Chair will recognize the question. It is I believe the same question as one asked yesterday by the hon. member for Joliette, although I might say the name sounded a bit different when mentioned by the hon. member for Joliette. The question will be allowed, and if the hon. member for Joliette has a supplementary he may ask it later.


Mr. Speaker, Mr. Geoffroy's wedding was authorized according to regulations of the Penitentiary Service, after consultations with prison authorities, social workers and the institution's chaplain who recommended that permission be granted.


I have a supplementary, Mr. Speaker. May I ask the minister if he was aware that the best man at the wedding was Raymond Denis, an old friend of the government?


No, I was not at all, Mr. Speaker, and I do not believe any conclusions can be drawn therefrom.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if I might direct a question to the Prime Minister. With regard to the commission of inquiry headed by Dr. Barber relating to Indian lands, monies and the like, may I ask whether it is the government's intention to enlarge the scope of that inquiry so that the general 