Order, please. Before we begin today's proceedings I should like to draw the attention of hon. members to the presence in the Speaker's gallery of a very distinguished delegation from Yugoslavia, led by His Excellency Mr. Mika Spiljak, President of the Chamber of Nationalities of the Yugoslav Federal Assembly.


Hear, hear!


This Yugoslav parliamentary delegation is visiting Canada at this time as guests of the House of Commons. I know all members would want me to extend to them on behalf of the House a most cordial welcome to the parliament of Canada. It is our hope and trust that they will find their visit in our country enjoyable, rewarding and fruitful. We welcome them to our country.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct the attention of the House to the presence in the gallery of three great hockey teams participating in the Memorial Cup 1972 playoffs in Ottawa, the Cornwall Royals, the Peterborough Petes and the western Canada ambassadors, the Edmonton Oil Kings.


Hear, hear!


The hon. member has a very valid question of privilege, particularly in so far as the Cornwall Royals are concerned.


Hear, hear!


Third report of Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs-Mr. Gervais.
[Editor's Note: For text of above reports, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43 I ask the unanimous consent of the House to propose the following motion: In view of the slowness of negotiations between the Quebec and Ottawa governments concerning social policies, and in view of the fact that an agreement between the two governments is urgently necessary in the present situation in Quebec, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin):
That this House forthright refer the whole matter to the Committee on Health, Welfare and Social Affairs and that special meetings be held in order to reach a solution agreeable to both governments.


The House has heard the motion moved by the hon. member for Joliette. This motion, moved under the provisions of Standing Order 43, requires unanimous consent of the House.
Is there unanimous consent?


No.


Yes.


The hon. member will have noted that there is no unanimity. Therefore the motion cannot be put.


for leave to introduce Bill C-208, to amend the Pension Act, the War Veterans Allowance Act, the Civilian War Pensions and Allowances Act, the Children of War Dead (Education Assistance) Act and the Department of Veterans Affairs Act, to provide for the annual adjustment of pensions and allowances payable thereunder.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Inquiries of the Ministry PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
May 11, 1972
On the order: Government Notices of Motions.
May 9, 1972-The President of the Privy Council:
That the Public Accounts for the year ended March 31, 1969 and the year ended March 31, 1970, and the reports of the Auditor General thereon, together with the evidence adduced by the committee during the second and third Sessions of the 28th Parliament, be referred to the Standing Committee on Public Accounts.
Pursuant to section 2 of Standing Order 21 this government notice of motion stands transferred to and ordered for consideration under government orders at the next sitting of the House.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I might rise on a point of order to suggest that as a result of discussions it might be possible to move that this reference to the Standing Committee on Public Accounts be accepted at this time, if this could be done with consent.


We are quite agreeable. We think that the sooner we get these looked into the sooner we can look at the next ones which will be interesting.


The minister's point of order is the one on which I was rising, Mr. Speaker. Yes, we agree.


That the public accounts for the year ended March 31, 1969 and the year ended March 31, 1970, and the reports of the Auditor General thereon, together with the evidence adduced by the committee during the second and third Sessions of the 28th Parliament, be referred to the Standing Committee on Public Accounts.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the said motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Prime Minister-I do not know whether he is visiting Rideau Hall or where he is-I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance.


You are nervous.


Hear, hear!


I should like to ask the Minister of Finance upon what projections of consumer demand levels he based his decision to allow an increase of 3 per cent in personal income taxes to come into effect on January 1 next?


Mr. Speaker, I do not agree with the hon. gentleman's premise. There was nothing in the budget affecting personal income tax. This parliament three or four weeks ago extended for the year 1972 the temporary 3 per cent reduction on personal income tax and the 7 per cent reduction on corporation tax which were introduced in October last by my predecessor. In the terms of that law, a law of this parliament, both the 3 per cent temporary reduction in personal tax and the 7 per cent reduction in corporate tax will expire at the end of 1972 except, of course, for manufacturers and processors with which the budget dealt. I would say to my hon. friend that in terms of personal tax I discussed this matter thoroughly when various options were put to me by the press as to what alternatives were available to me, and I explained to them what I intended to do on the basis of the resources available to me. Personal taxes will continue to decrease under the tax reform legislation of my predecessor under the four-year schedule which he set out, and of course the exemptions will be higher.


I thought we were getting into a debate for a minute, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask a supplementary question of the Minister of Finance. Granted that those of us who are members of this chamber and are very knowledgeable about taxation matters realize that the rate of taxation on personal income will increase again the first of January, I wonder why, in view of the very fulsome way, to use the minister's own words, in which he approached the general outline of the government's position, he did not feel it necessary to mention during the course of his budget speech that personal income taxes would go up again on the first of January next?


Order, please. The Chair will allow the minister to reply, but I take the liberty to remind hon. members, before we spend too much of the question period on the budget, that we do have a budget debate later today. This having been said, the question has been asked and the Minister of Finance should be allowed to reply.


The answer to that quite clearly is that the budget did not touch on the personal income tax. I went on the assumption that parliament was aware of the present provisions of the law.


How about the people?


confidence is based that, despite the increase in the personal income tax which will take place on January 1 next, the level of consumer demand will be sufficient to support an expansion of the economy and therefore fight unemployment in the manner to which the minister has dedicated himself.


It was my judgment that consumer demand as represented by the expansion of the economy would be sufficient and that the temporary reduction authorized by parliament should be allowed to expire. That was fully disclosed to the press at a national press conference when they put those options to me.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion, and I have given him notice of my intention to ask him a question on this matter. In view of the revelations in the Standing Committee on Regional Development concerning some millions of dollars in offers of grants by his department that had not been reported to parliament as required by law, would the minister undertake to submit an interim report to parliament at the beginning of next week providing the information that is available now? I ask this question because the deputy minister indicated that it would take several weeks to provide a complete report.


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member knows that, as reported yesterday to the Standing Committee on Regional Development, I have instructed my department to produce a supplementary report on cases involving revised incentive offers as soon as possible. Assurances to this effect were given to the standing committee yesterday both by myself and my deputy minister. Those assurances will be kept.


In view of the admission that about 90 grants to corporations were revised after the original offer, could the minister inform the House why it should take several weeks to provide a report to parliament on this matter?


I doubt that the supplementary question is in order.


May I ask the minister whether he could not undertake to speed up the completion of this report and to provide an interim report, as I asked in my original question, which would provide information that is available now and allow time for checking out all the departmental records? Furthermore, could the minister also assure the House that this information will be made public before the next federal election?


I do not know when the next election will be held, Mr. Speaker.
25316-14J
Inquiries of the Ministry


The minister said, perhaps properly, that it would take considerable time to go through the 1,400 cases which have already been given grants, but could he not early next week at least present us with a list of the 90 corporations, which, as he has already said in the committee, have had their grants revised?


Mr. Speaker, I do not want to draft an interim report as I would like to make sure that the figures quoted are correct. Otherwise, the committee members would be justified in charging us with giving false information. All records will have to be checked and a report could be brought in within reasonable time, I think.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration.
In view of the fact that following the closing of Que-mont and Noranda mines and of the CIP mill in the town of Temiscaming, these companies have to give severance pay to laid off employees, and in view of the fact that the Unemployment Insurance Commission refuses to pay benefits to these newly unemployed people on the ground that they would have to exhaust this money before benefits can be paid to them, is the minister in a position to indicate whether his department is reviewing this situation which I think is utterly illogical so that these unpaid unemployed people can get fair treatment?


Mr. Speaker, the whole area of what constitutes income is being reviewed at the present moment in light of the regulations, and that includes severance pay and vacation pay. As a general rule severance pay is spread over a period of not more than 33 weeks to make certain that people with labour attachment of 52 weeks still qualify for major benefits.


I would like to ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
I could see the smile on the face of the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion when I spoke of the unpaid unemployed.
However, I would ask the minister to tell us if the local unions have made representations or filed briefs with the department so that these people will be treated fairly. Because, even though they are receiving severance pay they are still unemployed.

May 11, 1972
Inquiries of the Ministry


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I have asked for representations from the representatives of the workers and also, of course, from the employers. The basic concept behind unemployment insurance is interruption of earnings rather than unemployment, but there have been representations from the representatives of the workers concerning the definition of earnings.


Mr. Speaker, I would have liked to ask my question of the right hon. Prime Minister but, as he is absent, I shall ask it of the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Since Mr. Castonguay suggested that the lack of comprehension and consultation between the federal government and Quebec is the reason for his threat of resignation, in view also of the present volcanic climate in the province of Quebec, we must endeavour to improve the situation and to prevent the loss of one of the outstanding Quebec ministers.
Would the minister say to this House whether he intends to meet his Quebec colleague as soon as possible to discuss with him the question of a social security system which would be more acceptable to the Quebec government?


Mr. Speaker, I would advise the hon. member that in terms of the family allowances we have been meeting constantly with Quebec, and I think to the beneficial end of both levels of government.


Which is the beneficial end of this government?


I would expect that we would come to an agreeable accommodation within a matter of days, so the negotiations along that line have been proceeding very well.
With reference to the government's intention to increase old age pensions, this, of course, was announced in the budget speech. For reasons that are obvious when that procedure is adopted, there could not be the consultation that otherwise might have taken place. As is obvious from recent speeches by members of all the opposition parties in the House, we were faced with what they agree is a fact, that a significant number of those 1,800,000 Canadians desperately need assistance, and that is what the Minister of Finance has done.


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question.
In view of the answer which was recently given to me in the House by the hon. minister, specifically that there was no question of the federal government granting Quebec legislative primacy in the area of family allowances, does the minister intend to change his mind, following the events taking place in that province, and assure Social Affairs Minister Castonguay that the federal government will indeed grant Quebec legislative primacy in this area?


Mr. Speaker, the discussions with Quebec as well as with the other provinces were set out in a letter from the Prime Minister to the premiers. He indicated the guidelines within which we felt it would be reasonable to expect the provinces to have an option to design family allowances within federal minimum standards. As far as I am aware the negotiations with Quebec have been proceeding very well and there has been no dissatisfaction expressed by that province with respect to the suggested accommodation in this particular regard.


Oh, oh!


Order, please. I hope we will find a way to shorten both the questions and answers because we are running short of time.

Some hon. members have supplementary questions, including the hon. member for Temiscamingue (Mr. Caouette).


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question.
If we grant a senior citizen, whose spouse has not yet reached the age of 65, the security income supplement, do we in such a case file an application with the social welfare office of Quebec or with other provinces? Would the minister tell us whether he found out from provincial authorities if the increase granted people aged 65 will decrease the welfare allowance his spouse is receiving at the present time?


Mr. Speaker, the fact that the-


Order, please. I will allow the minister to reply but it seems to me that to some extent we are getting involved in discussing the details of a bill which is already before a committee.



I don't want to suggest that the minister should not answer the question put by the hon. member for Temis-camingue, but we should try to go on to something else and perhaps come back to it later on.

The Minister of National Health and Welfare has the floor for the moment.


Mr. Speaker, the fact is that the increase in pensions will benefit the elder spouse in the example the hon. member quoted; the spouse under 65 will not benefit from the increase, of course. It may be that the province will use this increase to deduct what they would otherwise pay the spouse under 65, but I hope that will not be the case.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In view of the fact the Canadian dollar reached a value on the spot market yesterday of $1.0103, would the minister advise the House whether he shares the optimism of his predecessor that the Canadian dollar, following the negotiations of last fall, would move downwards to become equivalent to the United States dollar? Would he also advise the House whether it is the intention of the government to have the Bank of Canada maintain a clean float with regard to the relative values of the Canadian and U.S. dollars, notwithstanding the fact that his figures disclose that there was an intervention of about $500 million in the foreign exchange market in order to participate in a so-called clean float?


Mr. Speaker, to deal with the $500 million first, that money was purchased from the exchange fund during the latter half of 1971 previous to the Smithsonian agreement of December 15 last year when the world money market was in a state of disorder and we felt we had to protect the dollar at that time. Since then, the dollar has been allowed to float cleanly.


In view of the difficulties that are imposed upon Canadian exporters by the ever-increasing value of the Canadian dollar, will the minister advise whether he shares the confidence of his predecessor that the policy of the Canadian government would not affect Canadian exports adversely?


Mr. Speaker, the budget measures, particularly the corporate tax reductions for manufacturers and processors, had as one of their purposes to protect them against any movement in the Canadian dollar.
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Finance or the Acting Prime Minister. It arises from the admission just made by the Minister of Finance that the float was not clean prior to the Smithsonian agreement. To what extent can we rely upon the assurance given by the government, which has insisted consistently that the float was a clean float all along, when we now learn that it was only clean since a certain date?


Hear, hear!


Order, please. We are obviously getting involved in the debate which I gather we are to have later this afternoon, but the minister might reply briefly and then we will try to get on to another subject.


Mr. Speaker, nothing that the hon. gentleman has suggested in his statement deprives me of the validity of an answer that during the relative chaos of the international monetary market between August 15 and December 15, every country in the world took steps to protect its currency. That was the only time we had to intervene in any appreciable way to protect the dollar-


Order, please. I will recognize the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands shortly, but we have had so many supplementaries from the beginning of the question period that we are not moving along very quickly. For the moment, the Chair will recognize the right hon. member for Prince Albert.


Mr. Speaker, since March 28 I have been waiting for an answer to starred question No. 446 concerning the red ensign.


Oh, oh!


I see the Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister ridicules the red ensign by his interruption. I ask why there has been such difficulty getting an answer to that question?


Mr. Speaker, the right hon. gentleman wanted to know how many flags were left in the country under the control of my department at a certain time. I presume that my officials are busy counting flags and I expect we will have an answer by next week. We want the reply to the question to be correct and exact.


Mr. Speaker, is the reason for the delay the fact that many red ensigns were put to the torch, or burned at the stake?


Oh, oh!

May 11, 1972
Inquiries of the Ministry


Order, please. The hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I can reply briefly that next week the right hon. member will find out-


Order! May we have order? The Chair has recognized the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the fact that the value of the Canadian dollar in relation to the American dollar is at the highest figure since the Canadian dollar was unpegged, and in view of the fact that analysis shows that this is largely due to the fact that interest rates in Canada are higher than in the United States, is the minister, with the governor of the Bank of Canada, taking any steps to reduce interest rates in Canada to bring them in line with those in the United States so that we will not have this disequilibrium which is having such a harmful effect on manufacturing, particularly on lumbering in British Columbia?


Mr. Speaker, there are a number of other factors operating on the value of the Canadian dollar as well. If any steps are to be taken they will be announced here in due course.


In view of the fact that analysis shows that Canadians, particularly the provinces, are borrowing in the United States because of lower interest rates there and short-term capital is coming into Canada because of high interest rates here, and while the process of watching interest rates, as the minister said a few days ago he was doing, may be interesting, may I ask him when he proposes to act on interest rates?


The hon. member for Red Deer.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources is here, may I direct my question to the Acting Prime Minister. As the United States Secretary of the Interior, Rogers Morton, has today issued a permit authorizing construction of the trans-Alaska pipeline, would the Acting Prime Minister please inform the House what response the government of Canada has made to this tragic decision which threatens the entire environment of the Pacific west coast?


Mr. Speaker, the granting of the permit by Mr. Morton was not unanticipated here nor in the United States as the matter has been before him for some time. In the meantime we have had discussions through the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources-


That great diplomat.


-with Mr. Morton and with the government of the United States and they have been very satisfactory.


A clean float.


The minister put before Mr. Morton the possibility of reconsideration of a pipeline through the Mackenzie Valley. He indicated to him that in a very few months we would be in a position to delineate clearly the requirements for ecology. That has been taken into account by the government of the United States. It may be some time yet before construction can commence on the pipeline and it is our thought that there will be further discussions with the United States government.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The minister has said that the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources placed the proposition before the Secretary of the Interior of the United States. However, we do not know what the policy of the government is or what is to happen. I have tried to learn from answers to questions whether anything is being done to speed up the pipeline feasibility, in view of what the Prime Minister said in Edmonton about the Mackenzie highway being paid for with the rent from such right of way.


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. It is my understanding that the American government is considering imposing extra custom duties against Michelin X radial steel belted tires being manufactured in Nova Scotia. Has the minister any knowledge of this action and what difference will this make, in Canada's view, in the Domestic International Sales Corporation program? In other words, what action does the government contemplate taking?


Mr. Speaker, I understand that a notice of countervailing duty is expected to be issued by the United States government. Thirty days would be given under this notice for parties to make representations. The United States government has already received our views on the Michelin case, and I am quite sure that these views will be repeated during that period of time.
May 11, 1972


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Finance on the Michelin question. For about a week I have tried to learn from the minister when the commitment made by the government to the Michelin Tire Company to give them tariff-free access to the Canadian market would come into effect. He has not answered the question clearly and he said he would look into it. Can he now inform the House when duty-free entry to the Canadian market will be granted to the Michelin company?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member is talking about remission, I told him that no remission or relief has actually been granted to the Michelin company, nor, to the best of my knowledge, has any decision been taken as to when or in what form such supplementary relief would be given.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Since I have a letter from the former Minister of Finance dated last June which states categorically that such concession was being granted to Michelin for such entry into the Canadian market, can the minister inform the House now as to what happened to that decision? Was it revoked? Was I misinformed at the time? What has taken place?


Mr. Speaker, I will check the correspondence against my answer, and if the hon. member deserves further clarification I will give it to him.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. Is the decision of the Michelin company to proceed with expansion dependent upon such a remission being actually granted?


No, Mr. Speaker.


The Chair will recognize the hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby for one last supplementary on this subject. I think all hon. members will want to consider the fact that we are fast reaching the end of the question period and we have not made much progress because of the length of questions, the length of answers and the number of supplementaries.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. Since millions of dollars of the taxpayers' money have been allocated to the Miche-
Inquiries of the Ministry
lin company in order to begin expanding the car tire market in Canada, and since the factories of existing firms in this country are already operating below capacity, did the minister's department consult with the other firms in that industry and did they agree to the notion that another firm should be tax supported and brought into the economy to produce tires?


Mr. Speaker, the entire matter was discussed yesterday in committee with the deputy minister and the official responsible for the grants.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion.
Considering that last week an important sawmill was completely destroyed by a fire which caused damages of more than $2 million and since 250 workers thus lost their jobs, could the minister tell the House whether discussions have been or are being held with the heads of this company with a view to rebuilding the mill?


I could not say, Mr. Speaker. If company officials want assistance, they know they must contact the department. If this took place in the Quebec City area, we have offices there. I am not personally aware of this situation, but I will endeavour to find out whether there have been any meetings.


I should like to put a supplementary, Mr. Speaker.
In order to hasten things, let me say that this sawmill is in St. Just de Bretenieres, in the riding of Bellechasse-


Order, please. The hon. member for Vegreville.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce arising out of the questions I asked him last week respecting Versatile Manufacturing. Since the president of Versatile has revealed that officials of the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce have not consulted and held discussions with officials of Versatile regarding the company's expansion in the United States, would the minister now take steps to initiate discussions

Inquiries of the Ministry
with top level officials of the Versatile company with a view to having this expansion take place in Canada rather than in the United States?


Mr. Speaker, I think I gave the hon. member all the information I had at the time, but I will check. I hope that Versatile will also review its position bearing in mind the advantages that were contained in the budget of last Monday.


The minister has got to be kidding.


In view of the minister's answer and since the president of the company has indicated that the DISC program was not the major, determining factor in this decision being taken, would the minister personally intervene and take an active interest in setting up meetings at once with the president and vice-president of Versatile with a view to having this plant expand in Canada rather than in the United States?


Order, please. That of course, is a representation to the minister.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Postmaster General. Can the minister tell the House whether he intends to reintroduce six-day letter carrier delivery in the urban areas of Canada? I ask this question in view of the minister's remarks in Vancouver.


Mr. Speaker, I answered that question in the House a couple of weeks ago.


Mr. Speaker, the minister indicates that he has already given a reply in the House some two weeks ago. I am aware of that. I was wondering whether the minister could perhaps give some further clarification at this time in view of his comments two weeks ago.


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State and has to do with the recent film festival in Laos and the showing in April in Vientiane of a 90-minute Canadian government film, entitled "Wow", in which a number of actors illustrate the dreams they experienced while under the influence of marijuana. As many members of the diplomatic corps as well as others could not take 90 minutes of this drivel and walked out during the showing, may I ask the minister if he was aware of the showing, is this the gov-

ernment's way of portraying the good life in Canada, and is taxpayers' money to be spent in this manner?


Was the Minister of Finance in the film? [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I could not endorse the esthetic judgments of the hon. member, whether accurate or not, I could not say, for I have not seen the film. However, the hon. member must know that all the films of the National Film Board are stocked with the various embassies throughout the world and that a committee of the NFB authorizes the participation of its own films in festivals throughout the world where they win many trophies.
I did not know the film "Wow" had been sent to Vientiane; I have just learned it. Should the hon. member ask me to have an inquiry made into the consequences of the viewing of that film at the festival, I should be happy to oblige.


Wow!


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs in charge of housing. Some two weeks ago I asked whether he would table in the House the final report on low-income housing of the Dennis committee. At that time he said he had not received it. I am sure he must have received it by now; I understand it was sent to his office some time ago. Has he received it, and will he table that report in the House?


Professor Dennis is still editing the report, as I made clear in the committee on the estimates the other day.


Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Agriculture who was supposed to have been here today. I have given notice to the department, and in the minister's absence perhaps the parliamentary secretary might provide an answer. Can any information be given to farmers concerning the grassland incentive program? Have there been any changes introduced as a result of last year's operations? There is some confusion. Some farmers are not certain whether they should apply or whether it is still possible for them to get grants this year.


I have been informed by the department that the hon. member can be assured that the grassland incentive program will definitely continue. To date, although the response has been excellent, there is still provision in the program for another two million acres of grassland. A number of improvements have been made in the program and a copy of a press release detailing these improvements will be in the hands of hon. members this afternoon.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In view of the great and anxious interest in the Le Dain Commission report on marijuana, which the minister says is just about ready for release, may I ask the minister to tell the House whether the government intends to make its position clear at this time?


If the hon. member is asking me whether the government will make its position clear concerning a report it has not yet received, I do not think that makes too much sense. If he is asking whether we shall analyse the report once we see it, the answer is yes.


It is important to realize that it is not knowing where the government stands on anything which is disturbing people.


Order, please.


POSSIBLE WEAKENING OF OPERATION OF ACT BECAUSE OF ACCELERATION OF DEPRECIATION ON MACHINERY AND	EQUIPMENT-PRIOR	CONSULTATION WITH
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion whether there was consultation with the Minister of Finance regarding the introduction of the new accelerated depreciation rate on equipment and machinery, which might have the effect of seriously weakening the position of the Regional Development Incentives Act, especially in areas such as the Atlantic provinces.


Would the hon. member be good enough to repeat the first part of the question?


Yes. I wanted to ask the minister whether he had consulted with the Minister of Finance with regard to the provision in the budget with respect to the accelerated write-off of equipment and machinery costs, a
Inquiries of the Ministry
provision which could weaken the effect of the grants made under the act?


I was at the cabinet meeting when this matter was discussed.


What steps is the minister prepared to take to make sure that this does not happen?


I think the premise is wrong, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Finance related to the question asked by my hon. friend from St. John's East. Will the minister give consideration to the position in which manufacturing and other companies find themselves? Having received grants they are now required to write off that portion of the grant applicable to production machinery before they can establish their cost allowances. Would the minister give consideration to this point? In terms of the budget brought down the other night there would appear to be some lessening of the power of DREE to attract industry to designated areas.


I do not
accept the premise, but I will certainly consider the point the hon. member has brought up. In general terms, I would hope that this change announced in the budget would make the Atlantic provinces more competitive, not only within this country but throughout the world.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Public Works. It relates to the redevelopment program being carried out jointly at Churchill, Manitoba, by the province and the federal government. Can the minister say whether any final decision has been reached concerning the inclusion in the program of an incinerator so that the influx of polar bears might be controlled or discouraged?


I am not sure that this question ought to be answered at this time, rather than placed on the order paper. I have the impression it is the kind of question which might well be considered at the time of adjournment.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I thought the minister was preparing to rise. I was merely asking whether a final decision had been taken.


No,
Mr. Speaker, I was not preparing to rise. I shall have to look into this matter and give the information to the hon. member later.

May 11, 1972
2170________________________________
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Labour. In view of the fact that it now has the authority to do so by order in council, is the government giving consideration to raising the level of the minimum wage for those who come under federal jurisdiction?


Consideration is being given to the minimum wage. Such consideration has been going on for some time now. While I am on my feet, may I-


May we expect an announcement soon?


If an announcement is to be made it will be made in due course. While I am on my feet-


Order, please. We have just about reached the end of the question period. Perhaps the Chair might recognize the hon. member for Edmonton Centre and possibly return to the minister in a short while.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Secretary of State. Would the Secretary of State advise the House what his department plans to do about the evident discrimination shown in making grants under the multicultural program, considering that not one of the numerous applications by Canadian-German organizations in Alberta has been approved?


Mr. Speaker, I do not accept the charge of discrimination in the member's question. I only wish to point out to him that he is very quickly drawing inferences. The process of grants to organizations under the multicultural policy has not been completely developed up to now, but surely there has been no discrimination against a group, especially that referred to by the member for Edmonton Centre.


The minister said "multicultural". I received a telegram today stating that all the German organizations in Alberta have been discriminated against. They have not received one grant.


Order, please. I apologize to the hon. members who have not had an opportunity to ask questions, but before moving to the budget debate and allowing the hon. member for Edmonton West to make his contribu-

tion, I will recognize the Leader of the Opposition who appears anxious to ask a supplementary.


My
question is to the Acting Prime Minister or to anyone who is authorized to speak for the Department of External Affairs. What is the position of the government with respect to the initiative taken by the government of the United Kingdom in attempting to persuade the government of the U.S.S.R. to join with the United Kingdom in sponsoring a conference on Viet Nam similar to the conference which those two governments jointly sponsored in 1954? Has the government of Canada taken any steps to support the United Kingdom initiative?


Questions have been directed to the Prime Minister and to the Secretary of State for External Affairs on the Viet Nam situation and the suggestion has been made that a statement should be made in the House either by the Prime Minister or by the Secretary of State for External Affairs. I think this is still under advisement. If a statement should be made, I have every confidence that the matter now brought forward by the Leader of the Opposition will be dealt with in the statement.
 * *


Mr. Speaker, I should like to seek information from the government House leader-I see him behind the curtain-I know he has been cogitating upon my question. I should like to ask the House leader what the business will be for the rest of this week and all of next week.


Mr. Speaker, as for the rest of this week, today, as my hon. friend knows, we are beginning the budget debate. Tomorrow we will continue our discussion of the Old Age Security Act amendments. If that bill receives second reading, we will commence second reading of the veterans bill. On Monday we will continue the budget debate, and on Tuesday we shall resume, if uncompleted, the pension bills, old age security and veterans.


Mr. Speaker, might I ask a supplementary? Can the hon. gentleman advise the House whether he has had certain discussions with his colleague, the Prime Minister, and can he reassure his anxious colleagues on the other side of the House that the House will in fact be sitting until the end of June? Can he also assure the opposition that we will in fact have an opportunity to
May 11, 1972

The Budget-Hon. M. Lambert


debate supply for the requisite number of opposition days; and in view of the limited number of days left for government debate, will the minister take an opportunity next week to indicate precisely what priority he will give to the legislative items on the order paper still to be considered?
Mr. Speaker, I want to give my hon. friend the assurance that, in the normal course, the House will be sitting until the end of June.


Order, please. I understand the hon. member is rising on a supplementary. The question period expired some minutes ago, so perhaps the hon. member has a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I wanted to ask the government House leader when we can expect him to call government order No. 25, the amendments to the British North America Act granting educational rights to certain religious groups in Newfoundland.


Mr. Speaker, that item is on the order paper, and I hope that I will have some discussion with my colleagues to determine at what stage we would bring on the motion, especially in light of what might be the present wishes of the government of Newfoundland.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question on the House business to the government House leader. What about Bill C-201, the foreign takeover review bill? Is it high on the list or down at the bottom?


Mr. Speaker, it is high on the list.


Is the hon. member for Spadina rising on a point of order?


Mr. Speaker, I have been trying hard to be recognized. I have a very urgent question and will not be here tomorrow.


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member that a question cannot be brought up by way of a point of order. The question period ended at 2.58 p.m., some seven minutes ago. There were a number of members waiting for an opportunity to ask questions which I am sure were urgent. It is not up to the Chair to determine which question is the more urgent. If the hon. member has the unanimous consent of the House, of course-


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent to return to the question period. Orders of the day.


The House resumed, from Monday, May 8, consideration of the motion of Hon. John N. Turner (Minister of Finance) that this House approves in general the budgetary policy of the government.
Mr. Speaker-


Order. May we have order, please. It is difficult for the hon. member to commence his remarks unless the conferences now taking place are pursued behind the curtains. The hon. member for Edmonton West.


Mr. Speaker, I thank you for your courtesy.
Hon. members will remember that before the debate adjourned on Monday night, we dealt with some of the highlights of the budget speech of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Turner). I criticized quite bitterly some of the comments of the minister about the amendment to the Old Age Security Act. We saw the government's strategem and of course we will hear tomorrow a more precise account of the proposals of the Minister of Finance on the Veterans' pension increase, on the cost of living, etc. With all that show off, the minister was purring like an old cat.
If I could get the attention of the minister, Mr. Speaker, I could tell him my mind. He was already gloating over the regard he hoped to win from everywhere on account of the proposed increases for old people, veterans and other citizens.
Although the minister announced a basic tax exemption increase for persons of 65 or over, he failed to point out- intentionally or not-that at the end of the fiscal year the 3 per cent deduction on the tax payable for 1972 would be lost. As early as January 1, 1973, some taxpayers will benefit from deductions but what is given them with one hand is taken back with the other.
We had already witnessed the sleight-of-hand of his predecessor, but the present Minister of National Defence (Mr. Benson) took pleasure not in granting a tax deduction but in levying a surtax. And I do not have to go into details about his statement. Yet, we know very well that in the 1970 budget speech we were told that the surtax would automatically come to nothing at the end of December of the same year. But, and this was extraordinary, we had a budget, and a mini-budget in December 1970, to re-instate the 3 per cent surtax. But, stranger still-because of the fiscal needs of the government which, at the same time, wanted to slow down inflationary forces-the government found it advisable to re-instate that surtax. That was the first face-about.
Mr. Speaker, what is strange is that in June, the then Minister of Finance stated in the House that the government had an entirely new policy, an expansion policy, a policy of kindness towards the Canadian people, and the

May 11, 1972
The Budget-Hon. M. Lambert
government strained its shoulder trying to pat itself on the back in a self congratulatory gesture by saying that it had reduced taxes, because it had cancelled the surtax.
Why did the Minister of Finance not speak as well about the 3 per cent deduction which is to end in December and which will apply to all Canadian people as regards personal income tax-a new 3 per cent tax increase. After all, over these past 18 months the public has got used to this 3 per cent reduction. Of course there are reductions for old age people, but nothing at all for the public in general. And now, one can see the reason for this hike in taxes. Actually, in the budget statement the minister referred to a table showing government revenue and expenditure. And what else can be seen in there? In personal income tax, Canadians will pay about $1,100 million to the government. Is that a reduction in taxes? Mr. Speaker, claiming that there is a tax reduction for the general public is a terrible thing.
This is impossible, for there is a $1,100 million difference which will result from the elimination of the 3 per cent reduction. The minister is peculiarly silent on this matter.
When you re-examine his speech and his statements made outside the House, you realize that when he found himself cornered by newspapermen who do not consider themselves naive enough to accept everything the Minister of Finance says, he had to admit that we would have a tax increase.
Mr. Speaker, this is an amount of $1,100 million in the personal income tax field. It is true that taxpayers aged 65 or more will benefit, retroactive to January 1, 1972, from an extra exemption of $350. We also know that guaranteed income is going to be increased by $15 and $30, effective January 1, 1972. But I want to point out to the Minister of Finance and others concerned that not one of the ministers who are in the House this afternoon were here last night when the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) analyzed the Machiavellian policy of the government.

This is Machiavellian and will have to be examined in greater detail during our study of the bill in respect of the increase in old age pensions. There is reference to the increase in the GIS and the cost of living escalator, but I want to ask the Minister of Finance (Mr. Turner) what he is doing with regard to the $15 and $30 increase in the GIS in relation to war veterans allowances. We have not seen the bill yet amending the War Veterans Allowance Act.


It was tabled today.


We get a pontifical statement from the hon. member for Calgary South (Mr. Mahoney) that the bill was tabled today, but it has not come down here yet. Can the minister tell the House whether the treatment of this particular increase will deviate from the treatment of past increases in the GIS and not count as revenue under the War Veterans Allowance Act? In the previous case, what was given with the right hand was taken away with the left hand and recipients of war veterans allowances were left at the same level.


Shame, shame.


It was corrected on April 1.


Not with regard to the guaranteed income supplement.


Yes, it was corrected on April 1 in the regulations.


As a matter of fact, the War Veterans Allowance Board insisted that veterans go through the GIS plan rather than make their election under the War Veterans Allowance Act as to what would be their income, if they had any option in determining whether they would take the GIS. The ruling is, notwithstanding what the hon. member for Ottawa West (Mr. Francis) says, that veterans shall be deemed to go through the GIS whether or not they make an election, and that is the rule that applies today. Is this going to be continued in respect of this increase?


May I ask the hon. member a question?


You can make your speech in due course.


I just wanted to ask you a question.


I am asking the Minister of Finance whether it is proposed that the increase in the GIS will be exempt from the computation of revenues under the War Veterans Allowance Act?


The whole $15.


On the last occasion, there was an increase in the permitted ceilings under the War Veterans Allowance Act, only to the level of the increase in the statutory payments, not one penny more or less.


It was corrected on April 1.


Only for the $2.70.


That is what he is talking about.


No, he is talking about the $15.


If the hon. member for Ottawa West had listened, he would know I am not talking about the cost of living escalator. I am talking about the $15 and the $30 which are the statutory payments under the GIS. I am not talking in any way about the cost of living escalator, because the cost of living escalator is not subject 