Is the hon. member for Yukon rising on a point of order?


Mr. Speaker, I am rising on the question of privilege, notice of which I sent to Your Honour yesterday.


Order, please. I do not want to cause any difficulty, but I was not aware that the Chair had received notice of a question of privilege. I believe I received notice of a motion yesterday but not notice of a question of privilege. Perhaps it might be difficult to determine whether the notice was notice of a motion or notice of a question of privilege. I suppose it is a question of interpretation, whether the words used by the hon. member can be interpreted as notice of a question of privilege rather than notice of a motion. In the circumstances, I will give the hon. member the benefit of the doubt. He may indicate what the privilege is that he proposes the Chair should consider.


Mr. Speaker, my question of privilege arises as a result of the petition of the Old Crow Indian people which was tabled in the House of Commons a short time ago and is based upon Standing Order 67(8) which reads as follows:
No debate shall be permitted on the report-
The report of the Clerk of Petitions.
-but a petition referred to therein may be read by the Clerk of the House at the Table, if required;-
Your Honour will recall that instead of being read the petition was printed in Hansard as though it had been read. After the semicolon in paragraph 8 of Standing Order 67-


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I should like to join with hon. members in welcoming back to the House the Minister of Manpower and Immigration after his illness. After the semicolon there follows an alternative procedure that is available if certain conditions are met:
-or if it complain of some present personal grievance requiring an immediate remedy, the matter contained therein may be brought into immediate discussion.
I suggest, Mr. Speaker, that there is now a requirement for an immediate remedy since the minister has invited applications for the construction of a pipeline or pipelines which inevitably must cross the land forming the subject matter of the claim of the Old Crow Indian people as 25020-56!
contained in their petition. I do not suggest, nor do they, that they be heard in this House immediately, but they seek the same accommodation that was given to a member a short while ago when a petition he presented was referred to a standing committee for consideration, the same accommodation that was given by unanimous consent yesterday when the complaints of Miss Booth were referred to a standing committee of the House for consideration. They seek only to have the petition referred to the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs.
The fact that the Barber commission has been set up does not offer an acceptable nor an effective alternative to the petitioners. Because of the immediate requirements which I have outlined to Your Honour and because the rules do contain an alternative procedure whereby the petition can be referred, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Athabaska (Mr. Yewchuk):
That the petition of Chief Charlie Abel and Councillors of the Old Crow Indians in the Yukon Territory, presented to this House on February 29, 1972, be referred to the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report with the committee's recommendations, if any, thereon.


As the hon. member for Yukon will appreciate, there are procedural difficulties with which the Chair is faced. The Standing Order to which he referred does provide a procedure which in some instances can be followed, but I respectfully suggest to him that that procedure was not available for consideration of the House when the petition to which the hon. member referred was presented to the House.
The hon. member now seeks to raise the matter by way of a question of privilege. I have serious doubts whether a matter of this kind can be brought before the House by way of a breach of parliamentary privilege. This is really what the hon. member must allege at the present time, that there has been in some way a breach of parliamentary privilege. If anyone's privileges are affected, it would be the signatories of the petition. It would be the Old Crow Indians referred to in the petition submitted by the hon. member for Yukon. I doubt very much that it can be argued successfully, at least so far as I can judge, that the parliamentary privileges of the hon. member for Yukon have been affected to such an extent that I should rule there is a prima facie case of privilege.
As the hon. member knows, when in the opinion of the Chair there is a prima facie case of privilege there can be a debate. What is referred to a committee is the breach of privilege, not the substantive matter. What the hon. member now proposes is that the petition of Chief Charlie Abel and other members of the Old Crow Indians be considered by the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs for inquiry and report. That is really a

March 16, 1972
Constitution of Canada
substantive motion. In my view, the hon. member will have to find another way to submit the substantive motion for consideration by the House.
The hon. member quite rightly referred to the fact there was accommodation in another instance when the hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond presented a motion which in a way was similar to this one. It was also based on a petition. It was agreed between the representatives of the parties that the matter would be considered by a standing committee of the House. There is that possibility yet, I suppose. I would urge the hon. member to take this up with the representatives of the other parties. I would certainly supply my good offices to the extent they could be helpful in trying to achieve compromise or accommodation as was done when we were met with a similar difficulty some months ago.


First report of Standing Committee on Transport and Communications, in both official languages-Mr. Lessard (LaSalle)
Second report of Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs-Mr. Kaplan.
Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present in both official languages the final report of the Special Joint Committee of the Senate and the House of Commons on the Constitution of Canada.


Hear, hear!
[Editor's Note: For text of above reports, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]


Is the hon. member for Charlevoix rising on a point of order?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.

Mr. Speaker, before this report is tabled, I should like to bring up a point of order.
The document being tabled is extremely important; it deals with the constitutional future and the fundamental laws of the country.
Now, Mr. Speaker, this report did not get the unanimous support of the committee. Diverging opinions were voiced about the philosophy of the report and certain chapters.

The hon. member for Matane (Mr. De Bane) and myself have prepared a minority report and I understand that other members of the committee did so too.
The possibility of members filing minority reports was discussed in committee. That right was refused by the committee.
Mr. Speaker, we claim that this fact contributes to denying the minority the right to express itself. Should permission be denied to table minority reports at the same time as the main report of the committee, I feel that this would constitute a very serious reflection on democracy.
Mr. Speaker, the committee in question is not like other committees; it is a special committee and, on referring back to Votes and Proceedings, one finds that this committee is called the Special Joint Committee of the Senate and of the House of Commons on the Constitution of Canada. And I emphasize this point: it is not an ordinary but a special committee.
I would now like to draw your attention, Mr. Speaker, to the following fact: it is obvious that, according to some practices of the House, minority reports on standing committees of the House-and I say "standing"-cannot be tabled at the same time as the main report. And in my view, this is wise. Here is why: it is obvious that when standing committees are called upon to study a public bill or a government measure, it is not possible to accept minority reports from such standing committees.
It would not seem to me that the Chair could have accepted, let us say on the proceedings of the Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs, minority reports regarding legislation introduced by the government.
May I ask, Mr. Speaker, whether there could be a little more order in the House so that I can make myself heard. It is of course not pleasing to hear French spoken in this House, but nevertheless I should like my hon. friends to hear my remarks.
Mr. Speaker, this is not a regular but a special committee in which no government policy is involved and-


Order. I am sorry I must interrupt the hon. member, but I agree with him.

These private conversations which are going on in the House are very embarrassing to the hon. member who has the floor and certainly make it difficult for the Chair to understand what is being said by the hon. member.

I suggest that hon. members having conversations or discussions to carry on do so as much as possible behind the curtains, in the lobbies.


Mr. Speaker, as I was saying, that joint special committee was in no way involved in government policy. That is why I say that because of that we should depart from the general rule adopted in the House to the effect that no minority reports can be submitted following proceedings of a permanent committee of the House. As this is a special committee, I feel that it should be allowed,
March 16, 1972

in order that the voice of the minority may be heard, to submit minority reports concurrently with the main report.
Mr. Speaker, it would have been desirable after the proceedings of the Special Joint Committee of the Senate and the House of Commons on the Constitution to be able while reading the report of those proceedings to notice the dissent that was expressed from time to time either on questions of principle or opinions concerning some of the subjects that were dealt with. But such is not the case. If you peruse the report of the proceedings of this committee, whose report is being tabled in the House, nowhere can you see the names of one or more members who had taken objection. All that was done was to put the question, count the votes and say, for instance, ten members are in favour of the motion and 11 are opposed; therefore, the motion is negatived.
This is all that can be read in the reports of the proceedings. Perhaps if the heading "dissenting" had been put into those reports, I should not be making this request of the Chair today.
Besides, I would also refer the Chair to the mandate conferred to the committee by the government. The latter did not say: The committee shall consider such and such viewpoint or government policy but it merely advised: We appoint a special joint committee of the Senate and of the House of Commons on the constitution of Canada in order to study the Canadian constitution.
The government did not lay any policy on the line when it asked the committee to study the constitution of Canada and, in my opinion, the mandate did not commit the government at all. This is why the report does not bind the government. In fact, it can reject or accept it in whole or in part. I feel that this is an important point in the matter I am raising.
I should also like to recall a precedent dating from June 23, 1971, when the report of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence was submitted. I refer to paragraph 26 on page 3114 of the proceedings of the committee. This committee has submitted to this House a main report where dissidences were recorded. I refer this House more particularly to paragraphs 26 and 27 which read:
26. Some members of the Committee feel they are not able to concur with the Committee's findings, even though they approve a number of specific conclusions. In their view, the evidence and the facts which emerged from the Committee's examination justify a much more critical assessment of the first policy paper.
And the matter of minority opinions continues to be raised.
I therefore uphold that my request is well founded and that the precedent which I just quoted must bind the Chair to consider favourably the point of order which I raised.
Mr. Speaker, I say again that I have here copies of the minority report of the hon. member for Matane (Mr. De Bane) and of myself, in the two official languages, and that I am prepared to table them if the Chair so decides. But before I close, I would like to say that, subject to the decision given by Your Honour, I reserve the right to move in the House a motion asking leave to produce the documents to which I have alluded.
Constitution of Canada


Mr. Speaker, I should like to support the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asse-lin) in the point of order he has raised. It seems to me it is one of very great importance. Whatever may be the technical and legal position taken in the past, I believe the time has now come when official recognition should be given to dissenting or minority reports.


Hear, hear!


March 16, 1972
Constitution of Canada
were it truly unanimous and not just made to appear unanimous, may have very great value.
In this particular committee I was impressed with the degree of unanimity on many fundamental issues of the members on that committee representing the Senate and the House of Commons from every corner of Canada. Yet at this moment under the present rule we do not know which of these 100 recommendations have the unanimous support of the whole committee.
I have not tried to argue this matter on a technical basis, but I say that a modern, intelligent, commonsense rule would permit minority voices to be heard in these reports.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I want to support firmly the point of order raised by the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin) and supported by the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Brewin). As a member of this committee who has a minority report that is not the same as that of the hon. member for Charlevoix and the hon. member for Matane (Mr. De Bane), I think we are perpetrating a complete fiction by continuing the present system. Here we have a committee of 30 members representing four political parties from all the regions of Canada, composed of not only members of parliament but also ten senators.


Wow!


Live ones?


It is hard to tell.


Like other hon. members who have spoken, I feel that if we are truly going to contribute to the debate on the constitution, or on any other subject which is dealt with by a report, the serious minority views that some members of the committee may have after studying the situation should be attached to the report, published with the report and distributed with the report so that all persons who read that report will also be made aware of the principal minority positions that are being put forward by those members. Let me point out that in most deliberative bodies such as royal commissions and task forces there is a place for minority reports. Our Supreme Court and Courts of Appeal publish minority decisions.
I urge the House to accept the minority reports for tabling today. As I said, I have one as well. We should allow these reports to be part of the great debate on the constitution.


Mr. Speaker, I must speak to this point of order, since we are obviously much concerned with it.
Generally speaking, it is not usual-and I agree with you on this-to allow the submission of a minority report together with the formal report of a committee. We know this rule applies to both standing and joint committees, as well as to special committees of this House. This is the case, for instance, of the Special Joint Committee of the Senate and of the House of Commons on the Constitution of Canada.
Furthermore, according to the practice, dissident members may express their views in at least one way, that is- still according to the practice-in the report of the committee.
In this regard, I refer the Chair to paragraphs 26 and 27 of Issue No. 31 of the proceedings of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence.
In fact, Mr. Speaker, one reads, and I quote:
Some members of the Committee feel that they are not able to concur with the Committee's findings, even though they approve a number of specific conclusions.
Such is the situation of the dissident members of that committee.
In paragraph 27, one reads, and I quote:
These members are also unable to agree with the underlying tone of the policy paper in its repudiation of the earlier idealistic internationalism in foreign affairs.
Mr. Speaker, within the standing committees of the House, the members were able to express their views, without being named for that reason, and, in the official report, account was taken of their disagreement. Their views were even printed, something which this committee has not done.
Mr. Speaker, in Citation 318 of the Fourth Edition of Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms, on page 642 of the Eighteenth Edition of May's Parliamentary Practice and on page 471 of the Fourth Edition of Bouri-not's Parliamentary Procedure, it is provided that members may not present minority reports.
That is one thing. Another was accepted on June 26, 1971, when the report of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence was submitted: in the majority report, a dissident opinion could be expressed without naming the hon. members, this having been requested by the hon. members for Matane, (Mr. De Bane), for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin) and others, but it was not taken into consideration by most of the committee members. Mr. Speaker, the former made their views known within the committee and asked for the inclusion in the report of the constitutional principle of self-determination. I quote an extract of the said report:
This matter gives rise to strong exchanges of views, but the inclusion of this right in the Constitution has always been refused as principle.
And this principle was not included in the report even though the request was made several times.
Mr. Speaker, here is another inportant argument. As was the case with the report of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence, the members of the committee on the constitution, if I am not mistaken, asked several times that their differences of opinion be put on the record in the report, without mentioning the names of the members concerned; as usual, this was rejected. Thus, we ought to say a word about the rights of the minority.
Issue No. 31 of the Committee on External Affairs and National Defence does mention a fact that we should explain. That report indeed recognizes the right of hon. members to express different views and sometimes even views that are opposed to those of the majority, and the right to put these views on record in the majority report,

March 16, 1972

which has been refused by the majority of the special joint committee on the constitution. That is the question of privilege we are raising today.
It therefore follows that when discussing a revision of the constitution we are dealing with a substantial question. It is clear that such discussions involve, not only for Quebec but for all other Canadian provinces, the right of self-determination. However, hon. members have no other channels for stating their views than the normal legislative institution, which they control. They are therefore muzzled and unable to express their opinions, even diverging, otherwise than by their remarks or their vote within the committee-neither in the report nor in the House.
According to the normal regulations to which I referred previously, the Standing Orders obviously do not as yet authorize minority reports, a fact to be deplored in 1972, an era of such critically serious problem. And, what is worse, in this case the majority report deliberately ignores dissidence.
The procedure established for the Committee on External Affairs and National Defence represents an eminently noteworthy precedent and in my opinion dissident members have been denied their fundamental rights.
In fact, it might happen that a group of members of the Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs Committee, engaged in a study of the Canadian banking system, would want its opinions on monetary reform to be taken into account. If a similar right is denied today to members of the Committee on the Constitution, it will mean, to all intents of purposes, that members of the Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs Committee would likewise be unable to bring forward the concept of a monetary reform through the channels of the parliamentary institutions they control. Thus, their only means of having their views considered would be through action outside the House and the committees, which is quite incompatible with the definition of Parliament, a democratic institution in the highest sense of the word, where the minority is and should continue to be respected. Under that system, the Canadian people can express their views through their spokesmen, the members of Parliament.
This shows how important this question is. We are now dealing with a basic issue which the Chair must take into consideration when it renders its ruling.
We could also mention the reports of standing and special committees with which the government disagrees. What becomes of those reports? They remain on the shelves. And then the majority of the committee is muffled and stifled in favour of the silent majority in the House.
This is why members of our party wish to support dissenting members and to insist strongly that the rights of the minority be respected in the report without the names of the members involved being disclosed.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to support the basic principle expressed by the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin). I should also like to empha-
Constitution of Canada
size that it should be made clear that this principle extends not only to special committees but also to the standing committees of this House-


Hear, hear!


-such as the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence to which reference has been made. We faced this problem in that committee on a number of occasions. We could find no specific precedent which would prevent the expression in our report of minority points of view, although there seemed to be a general feeling that the House did not recognize minority reports from committees. On investigation we could find no specific precedent that would prevent minority views being expressed in our reports. Therefore we made provision in several of them for minority points of view to be recorded in the main body of the reports.
We did see that some confusion might result and that the system might be open to abuse if the principle were adopted that minorities could publish separate reports on their points of view at public expense, but we did not feel that this same objection could apply where the views of the minority were recorded within the main body of the report. This was the procedure we adopted. It was based on our experience that, if we refused to permit a minority to express its point of view in the main report, that minority simply prepared a report in any event and then gave it to the press. It seemed to us much better that the minority point of view should be summarized and discussed within the committee and form part of the main report rather than have this informal procedure followed.
We think that the procedure we have adopted works well and we hope that Your Honour's ruling will recognize it as a proper procedure and that it will be extended to all the standing committees of the House.


Your Honour is receiving a great deal of useful advice and I am not going to prolong this matter unduly. One of the points raised earlier was the question of whether there was sufficient precedent within our parliamentary tradition or whether it was possible within the foundation of our parliamentary system for there to be such minority reports. Without repeating the excellent arguments put forth for the acceptance of such minority reports, I think it might be useful to consult not the Mother of Parliaments in this case but one of our sister parliaments, that of Australia. In the Senate there, which is an elected body, minority reports are permitted. In Australian Senate Practice, third edition, 1967, the following is recorded at the conclusion of Standing Order 311 relative to the preparation of a draft report:
A protest or dissent may be added to the report.
It goes on to say that the Senate considered there was considerable value in minority reports.
I think it is right and proper, as the chairman of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence has stated, that such minority reports should be included from time to time where it seems appropriate. I shall not repeat the arguments put forward by the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Brewin), the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin) and others with respect to the

March 16, 1972
Constitution of Canada
importance of this question in relation to a matter that is so fundamental to the country.


Mr. Speaker, I have no hesitation in rising this afternoon to support unreservedly this submission and the request of the hon. members for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin) and Matane (Mr. De Bane) so that this report can be tabled before the House.
Reference was made to the importance of our constitutional future in relation to the report produced by the committee and it is clear also in my mind that we have recognized that there could be no unanimity on this committee. A minority report is not normally acceptable to the House. I think however that one must consider the implications of the particular report that is being presented to us. I know that traditionally minority reports have not often been tabled, although it is recognized that precedents have existed.
Mr. Speaker, to justify the tabling of such a report, I should like to lay strong emphasis on the importance of the submission that is being made to the House by the hon. members for Charlevoix and Matane.
Members from Quebec and all others obviously need the information contained in the report which could be titled: Everything that a Member of Parliament Should Know. It faithfully reflects the situation in a province unsure of a country's future. I therefore believe that the clear and distinct conditions and explanations it contains would enable our English-speaking friends and colleagues to understand that the report is invaluable as far as the constitutional future of our country is concerned.
I am convinced that I had to make those few comments in order to justify the presentation of the report and that the federal government and Parliament today had the opportunity of proving themselves. Rejection of the report could be interpreted by citizens of one province as the refusal to acknowledge and listen to the truth which should have been exposed in the House a long time ago.
For all those various reasons, I dare hope that all members of the House will co-operate for unanimous concurrence in the report.


Order, please. I do not intend to limit in any way the discussion of this very interesting and important point of order but as the afternoon wears on I would hope that all hon. members would want to attempt to limit their contributions to the procedural aspect of the discussion. I am sure this is what has been done pretty well until now. Hon. members may agree that to this point we have considered most of the procedural arguments which might be advanced in relation to the point of order raised by the hon. member for Charlevoix. Having said that, it is certainly not my intention to limit the discussion and I shall listen to further argument on the procedural aspect of the matter.


Mr. Speaker, you are perfectly right when you say that the comments which have been presented may have exhausted the matter, but on the other hand, I would like to draw your
IMr. MacDonald (Egmont).]
attention to the fact that there is another precedent, in 1964, and I think that it is worth mentioning.
When the Special Committee on the Flag included in its report the votes taken during its proceedings, it was then extremely important that hon. members knew that votes had taken place, and I even think that the names of hon. members who had voted on those occasions were listed in the report. I am not absolutely sure of that, but the result of the votes was in that report.
I was sitting on the Special Joint Committee of the Senate and the House of Commons on the Constitution, and I have personal remarks to make in that connection. These comments should be added as an appendix to the report or be included in it.
I read the report prepared by the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin) and the hon. member for Matane (Mr. De Bane). I fully agree with their remarks, and I would also like my report to be tabled with the majority report.
Hon. Allan ]. MacEachen (President of the Privy Council): Mr. Speaker, there were, I believe two aspects to the point of order raised by the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin). If I may deal with the first aspect at the beginning, it was to the effect that dissenting opinions expressed in the committee have not been recorded in the report which has already been tabled. It has been stated that that was the practice followed by the committee on external affairs, as verified now by the chairman of that committee. It seems to me that was the line of argument taken by the hon. member for Egmont (Mr. MacDonald) also. On that particular aspect of the problem I am not proposing to argue, because it is a matter that ultimately must be resolved in committee and it does not arise in this case because the report now before the House does not contain any dissenting opinion. It may be that in future, through examination in the committee on procedure, we ought to devise a method or recognize a procedure by which dissenting opinion can be set out in the main report of a committee.
I believe we ought to reflect for a moment on the nature of the parliamentary process and on the nature of the reference that has been given to this committee and which was discharged today. The House of Commons asked the committee to study and bring forward recommendations on the constitution of Canada for consideration by the House. In the normal course the decision, either in this chamber or in a committee of the House, is rendered through the decision of the majority. The decision of that majority, whether in a committee of the House or in the House itself, becomes the decision of the House itself. It is recognized in the constitution of Canada that the majority decision becomes the decision of the House. The committee, having received a reference from the House of Commons, has deliberated. The majority has reached conclusions that have become the report of the committee itself as presented to the House. That is the traditional approach that has been followed pretty regularly, with the exception that has already been noted, and it may be an exception that we ought to continue in the future.
March 16, 1972

It is urged today that, in addition to receiving the report of the committee itself, the House ought to receive not only one minority report which is proposed to be laid on the table by the hon. member for Charlevoix and the hon. member for Matane (Mr. De Bane) but a further minority report from the hon. member for Notre-Dame-de-Grace (Mr. Allmand) and, finally, a further report from the hon. member for Lafontaine (Mr. Lachance). In other words, the House, having asked the committee to simplify its task by studying the problem and bringing forward conclusions that would aid the House, instead of receiving that assistance is to be confronted not with one main report of the committee but with four reports. That is really what is proposed.


Five reports.


Five reports.


Are you people opposed to ideas?


It seems to me, if that proposition is admitted, that it will lead inevitably to the conclusion that every member of a committee is entitled to have his report tabled in the House. If that logic is admitted it means that, if one member can move concurrence in his report, every other member can also move concurrence in his report and there will be 10 or 15 contradictory propositions before the House at the same time. I believe that is not what is contemplated either in the minds of hon. members or by the rules. What is contemplated is that when the House receives a report from a committee it will receive the majority conclusions and that will be dealt with by the House. That does not preclude the right of the minority to make heard its dissenting voice, as undoubtedly was done in the committee and as can be done in the committee and as can be done in the House if and when a motion to concur is moved in the House. It is not a formula to eliminate dissent or the right of minorities to express their opinions. It is a practice that allows the House, with the greatest possible simplification of procedures, to deal with one report and still preserve the right of others to make their views known.
I therefore submit, Mr. Speaker, that our present practice is certainly more valuable and more useful to the House than any practice would be that contemplated any member of a committee having the right to table a report, have that report considered and a motion of concurrence moved with respect to it. I realize that there may be strong views as to the future course the committee system ought to take. I believe that the consequences of this matter are so important that it ought to be considered further. For the moment, however, I think we ought to maintain what has been the tried and tested practice followed by the House for a long time.


Order, please. I notice that there are still as many as six hon. members who want to take part in this interesting debate. As I said, I do not intend to limit the debate because this is such an interesting and important point, but I hope that hon. members will make their contributions as brief as possible.
Constitution of Canada


Mr. Speaker, I agree to some extent with what the President of the Privy Council (Mr. MacEachen) has said but I would differ in this respect. One of the problems encountered today arises from the fact that too often when committees consider their reports they consider them in camera. The motions that are made are usually made in camera. Opportunities for visible expression of dissent are not available to the extent that they would be in other circumstances, particularly in the House. In addition, Mr. Speaker, another problem we are confronted with is that too often committee reports are not discussed or debated in the House. There is a certain opportunity, of course, to discuss them but it is a limited one. An opportunity for hon. members who dissent from a report to move motions expressing their dissent might be one way of overcoming the problem to which my hon. friend from Charlevoix has referred. I think the right of dissent must be preserved. I know it is not held in high esteem across the floor, at present.


Oh, oh!


I feel, however, that we should try to preserve it as much as possible.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to have this opportunity to address a few words to you on this matter, before you render your decision. As much as I might be tempted to agree with the generally persuasive words of many hon. members on this subject, especially those of the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Brewin) and the hon. member for Notre-Dame-de-Grace (Mr. Allmand), I submit that the question which is raised today is not precisely the question they have been discussing. If, as I believe that the practice of the house is fairly well established, this is not the time for us to debate whether or not that practice ought to be changed. May I draw to your attention a discussion that took place in the committee itself on this question. On May 5, 1971, the hon. member for Notre-Dame-de-Grace moved a motion which was subsequently adopted:
Whereas this committee had discussion as to whether or not members should have the right to append personal minority reports to a committee report and whereas it was suggested that this was contrary to the rules of the House of Commons and the Senate,
Be it resolved that this committee request the House of Commons and Senate for a clarification on this point and if such a right is contrary to the rules of the House and the Senate, that the rules be changed to allow for such personal minority reports.
In pursuance of this matter I contacted the Table and received in reply a letter from the Clerk, which it might be proper for me to table this afternoon. The substantial point made in that letter was that no known precedent exists for a minority report either in our practice or in the practice at Westminster. Citations were given from both Beauchesne and May. I will not take the time this afternoon to read the letter or to indulge in a lengthy procedural argument because I believe the President of the Privy Council (Mr. MacEachen) has already satisfactorily dealt with this part of the question.
I do not believe the members of the committee felt they were not at liberty, if they wished, to include in the report views which dissenting members had or to mention the

March 16, 1972
Constitution of Canada
names of those members. The fact is that the committee, in pursuance of the jurisdiction given it by the House, decided not to follow that course. The report I presented this afternoon is the report that was adopted by the majority of the members of the committee. The committee has, as it should, made the decision to print only the majority report. I should say, however, that in the text of the report the committee acknowledges there are dissenting opinions. In several places in the report there are references to positions taken as being the positions of the majority rather than of all members of the committee.
In conclusion, with regard to the matter of incorporating names and the particular feelings of individual members on questions, the committee has already made its decision and I submit that the House has no option but to accept the decision which has already been made by the committee.


Mr. Speaker, I shall heed your admonition that comments be brief. In response to part of what was said by the President of the Privy Council (Mr. MacEachen), I think there should be in our minds at any rate a distinction between legislation when it is referred to a committee and a subject.
When a bill is referred to a committee, that committee has to make its report in clear terms, yes or no. However, when a subject is referred to a committee, surely what this House wants is ideas. I do not see anything wrong with a report or reports coming back from a committee to the House which give to the House the benefit of not only the ideas of those who comprise the majority but the benefit of the ideas of the minority members of that committee.
I thought another point which the President of the Privy Council made or sought to make was a bit of a red herring. He suggested that if there were four, five or six reports we could have a series of debates on motions to adopt those various reports and that would create a great deal of chaos and confusion.
If we are going to meet this problem effectively, it is obvious we are going to have to make some rule changes. Certainly we could provide in any rule that it is only the majority report that is debated on the floor of the House. At the present time the only provision for concurrence by motion is in a report, not in a minority report or a minority opinion which might be tabled at the same time.
I have no hesitation in saying that I realize Your Honour will have difficulty, particularly in view of the clear language of citations 318 and 319 of Beauchesne's Fourth Edition, in ruling that the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin) or other members have the right today to lay on the table their minority opinions or minority reports. However, I want to underline two things that have been said during the course of the debate this afternoon.
The rules, including citations 318 and 319 to which I have just referred, do not deny to any committee the right, by a majority vote, to include in its report the opinion of the minority. The hon. member who spoke just before me, the chairman of the committee, said that his committee decided not to do that. However, the hon. member for St.
[Mr. MacGuigan.J
Paul's (Mr. Wahn) earlier reported that his committee had decided to take that course of action.
Perhaps I may be digressing for 30 seconds from the point of order, but I should like to say this. With all the talk we hear from the other side about participation in the process of government and all the talk we hear about the importance of the committee structure, is it not time that committee work was made something other than monolithic? Is it not time that committees had the decency, courtesy, foresight and intelligence to report back to the House not just the opinion that got the largest number of noses when the count was made, but the opinions and ideas that came out of the discussion in the deliberations of that committee?
I make a strong appeal to committees, to this one and to others, to update themselves and think of committees not just as instruments of the government there to endorse one opinion only but as instruments of parliament that have been given a job, to bring ideas back to the House of Commons.
As I said in my opening remarks, I see a difference between legislation and subjects which have been referred to a committee. In the case of subjects, surely we want all the ideas we can get that will be good for the discussion that goes on in parliament and in the country.
The last thing I should like to do is concur in the suggestion that others have made that surely the time has come to make any changes in the rules that are required in order to update ourselves in this regard. If this means that the Standing Committee on Procedure and Organization should look into this matter, I hope it will be given the opportunity to do so right away.


Mr. Speaker, first I would like to comment on what was said by the chairman of the committee, the hon. member for Windsor-Walkerville (Mr. MacGuigan). He made several references to the proceedings of the committee. His argument serves the point raised by the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin). He said that when a member suggested that his opinion be included, the majority decided, that when a member suggested that votes be registered, the majority decided.
In the House of Commons, everyone at least has the right to have his opinion made public. It is recorded in Hansard. As hon. members know, when a committee report is drafted it is done in camera. The public do not know what has been said there. It is not recorded. When a member moves a motion or votes for or against something in the House, it is recorded and available to the public. The stand that each member takes is known.

Now, Mr. Speaker, the point raised by my hon. friend, the co-chairman of the committee seems to concern us.
Mr. Speaker, I think we all appreciate the same values- that states, countries, forms of government, political structures and especially the number of reports are sacred and history is there to prove it. And how! What is eternal, precious and must be saved at all costs is the primacy of man, the principle of freedom, equality and the right to defend our own opinions within legal structures.
March 16, 1972


Order. I take the liberty of pointing out to the hon. member that as much as possible he must restrict himself to the procedural aspect of the issue under consideration. He now seems to be expounding the philosophy of the parliamentary government and I do not think that is the point raised at the present time.


As I was saying, Mr. Speaker, my second point is that committee reports are always prepared in camera so that members do not have the opportunity of expressing their points of views, as is done in any other debate of this House. Of course, one may reply that members who have minority reports to submit can always forward them to the media, but obviously this is not the point because members enjoy the privilege of having their reports recorded for all time in the proceedings of Parliament.
It can also be said, as the co-chairman of the committee suggested, that the report states a few times-especially in the communique-that the majority has decided a certain thing. They do not say "unanimously". But of course saying "by a majority" does not indicate who voted for and which motions have been rejected by a majority.
I would like to end by quoting to Your Honour, further to the quotation of my hon. colleague for Charlevoix regarding paragraphs 26 and 27 of the 1971 report by the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence, the Report of the Select Committee on Overseas Aid, Session 1970-71 of the House of Commons in London.
At page 67 of the 1971 report, the name of the sponsor of each motion is given in full and then it is stated. The amendment was made, the Committee divided-"Yeas", so many, "Nays", so many.
And when the vote is tied, the chairman has a casting vote.
So, when the joint chairman of the committee argues that there are no precedent here or elsewhere, the hon. member for Charlevoix mentions a precedent from this House, the hon. member for Egrnont (Mr. MacDonald) mentions one from Australia and I mention one from the Mother of Parliaments.


Mr. Speaker, the problem with which we are dealing now is of the utmost interest to me. I listened with great attention to the remarks of the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin) and also to those of the President of the Privy Council (Mr. MacEachen).
The issue is one of procedure and the function of committees, according to what the President of the Privy Council said, is to examine a particular question in order to further the work of the House. In a committee, the question is given closer scrutiny while often the House can proceed with other measures.
I always understood that committees had a responsibility but I never understood, Mr. Speaker, that some committee reports are discussed by Parliament and others are never discussed.
If committees have been established for studying specific problems, I think this was to throw more light on a
Constitution of Canada
subject after a special study. So, if this is the purpose, when a committee is tabling its report and dissenting members cannot have their viewpoints stated in this report, I think the House and the government are deprived of valuable information.
Since Parliament may accept or reject a committee report and in view of the serious nature of the problem . and of the Canadian political climate, Parliament should stand as an example to the whole country and respect any and all minorities.
Under the present circumstances, the tabling of a minority report is requested. We are not aware of its content. So if the government wishes to know the viewpoints of all the committee members we should logically accept both the majority and the minority reports. This would be a fine example to the whole country and government would be able to know the evidence given to each committee member everywhere in the country.
Finally, I must say that I have already been a member of a most important committee which spent tax money to travel throughout the country. I had no opportunity of having my views incorporated into the report. I was quite disappointed and this report which was tabled in the House has never been called by the President of the Privy Council to be debated.
That, in my opinion, is the procedure which should now be followed. I readily agree with the hon. member for Charlevoix and ask the Chair to accept the minority report.


I thank hon. members of every party who, for the guidance of the Chair, have stated some sound views, I am sure, which I will try to take into consideration when giving a ruling on the point of order of the hon. member for Charlevoix (Mr. Asselin).
The hon. member has indicated that he was rising on a point of order before concurrence in the report.
I wish to point out immediately that the matter has nothing to do with the approval of the report. A motion for concurrence in the report will be put forward in due time, I suppose, either by the chairman of the committee or another member on his behalf or a member speaking on behalf of the committee members.
We are now discussing the tabling of the report and we must take for granted that it has already been tabled and that it is now before the House.
If I understand correctly, the hon. member for Charlevoix rose on a point of order because he would like to know whether minority reports can be tabled or should be concurred in at the same time as the majority report. No need to indicate to hon. members that this would be an entirely new practice.
Members who have participated in this debate on procedure have referred to parliamentary practice in Australia. The hon. member for Matane (Mr. De Bane) has referred to the procedure in Great Britain, but no precedent has been quoted to me to the effect that I could allow the submission of one or more minority reports.
Members have largely quoted, I admit, sections and precedents which carry weight in such cases. Paragraph

March 16, 1972
Constitution of Canada
319 of the 4th edition of Beauchesne's Parliamentary-Rules and Forms has been quoted to this House:
The report of the committee must be signed by the Chairman. No other signature should be affixed to a r