Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege, notice of which I sent to Your Honour under the provisions of Standing Order 17(2).
Last Thursday mgm, in fact at about two-thirty o'clock on Friday morning, the right hon. member for Prince Albert (Mr. Diefenbaker) made the point that a vote once cast must stand and cannot be changed.


But I wasn't upheld.


Therefore I should like to draw the attention of Your Honour, the right hon. member for Prince Albert and other members of the House to the fact that as recorded on pages 3433 and 3444 of Hansard for Thursday, June 22, 1972, all of the Progressive Conservatives who were present voted with us against the entire appropriation for the maintenance of the Senate.
I have been trying for a long while to get support for this proposition. I welcome the fact that the Tories have now voted that way. Mind you, I am sorry for the hon. member for High Park-Humber Valley (Mr. Deakon) and the hon. member for Essex-Windsor (Mr. Whelan) because they are recorded as having voted for the Senate.
Mr. Speaker, I expect you may tell me that this is an error in Hansard. I certainly do not blame Hansard for any confusion during that long, sad night. But the point I wish to make is that in view of the dictum pronounced the other night by the right hon. member for Prince Albert I assume that the vote of the Official Opposition against the Senate must stand.


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member can get any amusement out of that facetious statement, I have no objection. I shall not waffle.


Hear, hear!


Order. My understanding is that the House is to proceed this morning with consideration of the
motions respecting Bill C-201. Perhaps the Chair might make some brief observations in relation to proposed or suggested groupings of some of these motions. I do not expect that all of them will be disposed of this morning, so there will be opportunities during the hours and perhaps days ahead to review possible groupings of these different motions.
In any event, after looking at these motions over the weekend the Chair would like to suggest that motions Nos. 1, 2, 3, 21 and 28 be combined for the purpose of debate, and that a division on motion No. 1 would also dispose of the other four motions. These motions appear to relate to the same matter. I think it would be difficult to have different debates on each one of these motions. I would think that one debate could very well cover the field of discussion in relation to Nos. 1, 2, 3, 21 and 28.
The next group would be motions Nos. 4 and 18 which could be combined for the purpose of debate, and a division on motion No. 4 would also dispose of motion No. 18.
Motions Nos. 5 to 9 inclusive might also be combined for the purpose of debate. Motion No. 5 might be disposed of separately. A division on motion No. 6 would also dispose of motions Nos. 7, 8 and 9. I do not think I should attempt to cover the whole field at this time, but perhaps I should at this point refer to motion No. 9. The printed version of this motion is incorrect. The corrected version should read as follows:
That Bill C-201, an act to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by certain persons, be amended as follows:
In subparagraph 3(3)(c) by substituting the figure 10 per cent for the figure 5 per cent in line 31; and in line 36 by substituting the figure 40 per cent for the figure 20 per cent.
Perhaps we might leave it at that for the moment and review the matter later after we have disposed of some of the motions to which I have alluded. Further groupings might be considered by hon. members in the meantime.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I have found some difficulty in relating the amendments as they appear on the notice paper. They obviously relate to lineation and pagination of the reprinted bill, but in the haste of trying to get on with this debate hon. members, unfortunately, have not received the reprinted bill. My staff has been having a terrible time trying to tie in these amendments to the appropriate sections.


My understanding is that the reprinted bill is included in the files that hon. members have at their desks at the present time. Perhaps we might deal only with the first one of the groupings which I think is quite obvious to any hon. member. This would give hon. mem-
3472

June 26, 1972
Foreign Takeovers Review Act
bers an opportunity to think about the other groupings to which I have referred. In other words, I think there should be no objection to the suggestion that Nos. 1, 2, 3, 21 and 28 be combined for purposes of debate and be the subject on one division.


Mr. Speaker, we accept the suggestion that motions Nos. 1, 2, 3, 21 and 28 be combined for the purposes of debate. While that debate is going on, Your Honour, we will be able to study the other groupings that Your Honour has suggested. We may agree to them as well but possibly we can defer our acceptance until later.


A memorandum will be circulated among the House leaders in order that hon. members who are interested may suggest further groupings in advance. These will be proposed from the Chair in due course, but it might give hon. members a chance to look at the different motions and decide whether the groupings suggested by the Chair are logical and acceptable to hon. members.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I was wondering whether the NDP proposes to withdraw any of its amendments in view of the development over the weekend?


The House proceeded to the consideration of Bill C-201, to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by certain persons, as reported (with amendments) from the Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs.
We will proceed with motion Nos. 1, 2, 3, 21 and 28. Mr. Saltsman, seconded by Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg North Centre) moves:
That Bill C-201, an act to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by certain persons, be amended by inserting the following words after the word "economic" in subsection (1) of clause 2 on line 13 on page 1:
", political and social".
Mr. Burton, seconded by Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg North Centre) moves:
That Bill C-201, an act to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by certain persons, be amended by inserting the following words after the word "Canada" in subsection (1) of clause 2 on line 1 on page 2:
"and is likely to enhance the ability of Canadians to maintain effective control over their economic environment".
Mr. Knight, seconded by Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg North Centre) moves:
That Bill C-201, an act to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by

certain persons, be amended by inserting therein, immediately preceding paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of clause 2 on page 2 the following:
"(a) the likelihood that the acquisition will enhance the ability of Canadians to maintain effective control over their economic environment;"
and by renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly.
Mr. Knight, seconded by Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg North Centre) moves:
That Bill C-201, an act to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by certain persons be amended by inserting the following words after the word "Canada" in clause 9, subsection (1) on line 44 of page 17:
"and is likely to enhance the ability of Canadians to maintain effective control over their economic environment".
Mr. Broadbent, seconded by Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg North Centre) moves:
That Bill C-201, an act to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by certain persons, be amended by inserting the following words after the word "Canada" in subsection (6) of clause 18 on lines 20 and 21 on page 27:
"and is likely to enhance the ability of Canadians to maintain effective control over their economic environment".


Mr. Speaker, in moving motion No. 1, that the words "political and social" be added following the word "economic" in clause 2, I want to make the point that unless these words are included the bill is a fabce. One of the reasons we are concerned about foreign ownership is that the so-called decisions affecting foreign ownership have been made on purely economic grounds or on what appear to be purely economic grounds.
The argument has always been that foreign ownership makes us richer and therefore, regardless of the consequences for the work structure and regardless of the political costs, it is desirable. I suggest, Mr. Speaker, that if the word "economic" were to stand alone in the preamble outlining the purpose of the bill, we would be right back where we were before except that the government now has legislation to justify doing what it has always done-permit unlimited foreign ownership in Canada. The criteria for permitting foreign ownership must be broader than economic. There are important arguments against foreign ownership on economic grounds alone, but I believe the criteria must go beyond that and so I have put forward this amendment.
We think it is important that this bill receive full debate. It has not received full debate because the government drummed it through the committee. They made no bones about their haste in getting it through the committee and curtailing the number of witnesses to appear there. Their argument was that the bill was so important that it had to be dealt with in that manner. I have not been able to accept that argument, nor have many other people in Canada. In its present form the bill is hardly worth passing; it is meaningless and in some ways it will be a step backward.
In looking at some of the actions that this government has taken regarding foreign ownership let us consider two cases that come to mind. There was the incident involving Denison Mines when the government stepped in-
June 26, 1972


Order, please. I hope the hon. member proposes to relate his remarks to the motion before the House. The hon. member knows that if we have a general debate on every one of theses 28 or so amendments we will not in that way respect the rules. I would invite hon. members to relate their remarks to the motions actually before the House. If a general debate is to take place it should normally take place on third reading rather than on consideration of individual amendments. I appreciate that the hon. member's amendment is general in nature and perhaps his remarks do in fact relate to this motion, but I feel I should bring this point to the attention of all members at this time.


I appreciate your concern, Mr. Speaker, and I want to assure you that I am limiting my remarks to the particular aspect of this amendment. As I proceed I think it will become clear that I am doing so.
If we look at the two cases the government has stepped in to prevent a foreign takeover, Denison Mines and Home Oil, we have to wonder whether, if this legislation had been in force at that time, the government would not have permitted the takeovers rather than stop them. On purely economic grounds, the people who wanted to take over Home Oil could probably have made a very good economic argument on why foreign ownership of the company would be more desirable than Canadian ownership. The reason for prohibiting that takeover was that it had significance in other areas.
If this legislation had been in force the government would have said that the takeover clearly fell within the criteria of the legislation and therefore they were bound by the law and the takeover should be concluded. This is why I say that in some ways this legislation is worse than not having anything at all because the decision that the government had to make in regard to Home Oil was to a large extent a political rather than an economic decision. The nation was upset about the possibility of the last major Canadian oil company falling under foreign ownership. It was not upset about the economic indications alone but rather about the entire range of possibilities involved in such a takeover. The government, subject to this kind of public pressure and public concern, responded in the way it should have responded, namely, with a political act. If it could have hidden behind this kind of legislation, there are grave doubts whether it would have acted as it did.
Again, if we look at the Denison Mines situation, what was the reason for the government prohibiting the takeover of Denison Mines by a foreign investor? Was it an economic argument? I do not think so because the foreign investor could have made an excellent case why Denison would have flourished or sales of uranium might have been greater under foreign than under Canadian ownership. The reason the sale of Denison Mines to foreign ownership was prohibited was largely political rather than economic. I realize that to try to draw a line between economic, social and political considerations is very difficult, but in advocating this position I say that nevertheless these things have to be taken into consideration, and
Foreign Takeovers Review Act
in those cases where the government stepped in they were in fact taken into consideration.
We do not know, even to this date, what the full story of Denison Mines was. We have never really had an explanation from the government of why it stepped in and prohibited the sale, but we can speculate. Suggestions have been made that the reasons were that if it came under foreign ownership perhaps some of our sales to foreign countries would have been affected. Our sales in the United States would have increased but our sales in other countries to which we are trying to sell nuclear reactors might have been affected because of American legislation that would come into play with the foreign owner. The foreign owner would in fact have been subject to the trading with the enemy laws of the United States, and if the countries to which we want to sell uranium were in fact on the prohibited list we could not have sold it. We do not know the full story, but the point is that the government did step in and take some action. If this legislation had been in force and the foreign corporation that wished to take over Denison Mines had come before the government and said, "we in fact conform to virtually every part of this legislation and we are agreeable to going along with your economic criteria", the government might very well have permitted the takeover of Denison Mines.
There is tremendous danger in this legislation which is being advanced before the House as being a step forward, a move in the direction of doing something about foreign ownership, starting with takeovers. It is in fact a menace and could very well provide the government with the excuse it needs to enable more rather than fewer takeovers in Canada. It is for that reason that the terms of reference in the preamble must be enlarged. It is for that reason that we must add "political and social" after "economic". We are in the mess in which we find ourselves today because the government has insisted that we are only making economic judgments. We have the present degree of foreign ownership because the government has been saying that the marketplace will sort it out. We do not want that any more. Unless this legislation provides other criteria, then it is useless and, more than useless, it is dangerous.
The Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce (Mr. Pepin), who speaks so ably for the government, may say, as we have said, that the legislation represents an advance, that it is a step forward, although it is not everything he or we would like. On the other hand, he may say-and there have been hints to this effect-that if this legislation is not passed before the adjournment it will be on the opposition's heads. He may say, "Let them answer to the country and explain why this legislation did not pass, even though it is a small step so far as the government is concerned". I wonder whether there is that much brass on the government benches to make that kind of accusation.
On a number of occasions we have raised the matter of the interim problem before the takeover legislation comes into force. After all, foreign ownership and takeovers are not new. This country has been debating the subject for at least 10 to 12 years. The government has shown no fear whatsoever of what may happen during that period of time. Even while this legislation was being discussed there
25319-34J

June 26, 1972
Foreign Takeovers Review Act
were assurances from the opposite side when some of us raised the question of retroactivity and of what should be done in the interim. We were told that it does not make any difference really because once these companies know that we intend to pass legislation at this time they will hopefully behave accordingly and in the light of the impending legislation.
In the past there has not been any sense of urgency on the part of the government. Why is there this new sense of urgency, why this drumming of the legislation through the committee and now the obvious desire of the government to drum it through the House in a short period of time during a week when many other pieces of legislation are supposed to be considered? The reason is that the government simply does not want any examination of its foreign policy objectives. It does not want any real, significant debate on takeovers and their relationship to foreign ownership in Canada. What it is hoping for is to defuse the entire problem of foreign ownership in this country. It wants to be able to go into an election and say that foreign ownership is no longer an issue, that it has taken care of it and that the legislation is on the books. It is in that context that the legislation is dangerous. The government does not want a debate on foreign ownership; it wants to shove the matter under the rug, to hide it in a closet where no one will see it, and then go on with what it will invent as issues in the election.
Takeovers and foreign ownership in Canada are far too serious a problem to be dismissed in the way the government wants it dismissed. We are not prepared to see it shoved to the side in this way. We think the question is serious enough that those members who have things to say about foreign ownership should say them. We think it is important enough for the debate to continue. After all, there has not been a debate in the House on foreign ownership and on legislation affecting it with the possible exception of some sections in the Bank Act. If this legislation is passed there may not be a debate on foreign ownership in the House or anywhere until an election is called.
Let me raise some of the issues surrounding the question of foreign takeovers that should be considered.


Order, please. Again I have to remind the hon. member that as much as possible he should relate his remarks to the amendment before the House which he himself has brought to the attention of the House. I have listened to him closely for a minute or so, more closely than before, and it does appear to me that he is now making a speech which he might have made on second reading or which he might make later on third reading. I think an effort must be made by hon. members not to make general speeches when we have before us a very specific amendment.


I want to discuss some of the social implications of foreign takeovers, and I think that this relates directly to the amendment. Let us take the situation of an international corporation that wants to take over effectively in the province of Quebec. Is the government simply going to look at this kind of takeover in economic terms alone, as important as economics are, or will it ask other important questions?

Quebec is moving in the direction of greater reliance on French as the working language of the province. Will the government ask an interantional corporation proposing a takeover what its policy is on language and whether, in Quebec, the working language of that corporation is to be French as it should be? Or will the government say that this is not its concern because the bill deals only with economics, not with the French language or social conditions in Quebec or elsewhere in Canada, and therefore the takeover ought to be permitted? If that is the criterion to be used, if that is the way the government is to judge these matters, we are heading for trouble. One cannot separate economic and social conditions in a province. In a poor society where people are on the verge of starvation, economic considerations rule entirely. However, in a society that has achieved some degree of substance the people want something else as well. They consider the quality of life important, as well as the environment. Their social milieu is most important in their eyes. Yet this bill does not consider these areas. This bill, which might be most welcome in some primitive, underdeveloped country, makes no sense in Canada, a country with social and political objectives.
Are we, for instance, to look at a takeover and consider it only on economic grounds if the effect of the takeover might be the raising of consumer prices because of heavy advertising, product differentiation, and so on? Is the government to decide on economic grounds alone? Will the consumer not be considered? Will takeovers be permitted in all cases where it can be shown that a company's operations will be profitable and create employment? If a company involved in a takeover will create pollution through the introduction of certain techniques, will questions not be asked about this? Will the government not ask if the company is prepared to do research in Canada and employ this country's graduates and thus provide for a future Canadian technological capability? Will the government not ask such questions, or will it simply permit takeovers on general economic grounds? I agree it is not always possible to judge the benefits of research in straight economic terms because the implications of research go beyond economics, but how will the government judge in cases like that?
After repeated questioning, members of the government still have not told us clearly how many firms are involved in the United States DISC program, for the very good reason that they do not know. Actually, it seemed that there was no way it could know how many firms are involved. Now the government is undertaking extensive detective work and trying to ferret out those companies which have "shafted it" or double-crossed it. The government is learning who its good corporate friends are. It is watching the situation.
If certain companies attempt to take over Canadian companies, will the government ask them: Will you be applying for DISC, or will you say that in operating in Canada you will not respond to programs like DISC which may shift production from Canada to the United States or some other country? I say this, Mr. Speaker, because other countries besides the United States are involved in programs of this type. DISC, of course, is a
June 26, 1972

purely American program, but other countries have instituted similar programs. What is the point of allowing a takeover on economic grounds which may look advantageous at the time unless the company taking over the Canadian company assures us that it will not respond, in its Canadian operations, to legislation passed in the country in which the parent of the international corporation operates? We must be assured that companies coming to this country will not respond to programs instituted in the United States which might permit them to take advantage of certain tax concessions.
One criterion governing companies that seek to take over Canadian companies must be that they shall obey the laws of Canada only and not the laws of other countries; otherwise we shall, in the future, lose control of our economy and lose our social and political freedom. The bill contains no provisions in this area. The bill does not even touch on it. For instance, how is the government to say to such companies: You must assure us that you will continue your operations in Canada and not transfer them out of the country if any tax benefits under programs like DISC are offered to you?
Will the government look at the history and background of a foreign corporation wanting to take over a Canadian company and assess its labour policies? Many companies in the United States and other parts of the world, including Canada, have been notorious for their terrible labour-management relations. Are we to permit companies like that to operate in Canada without scrutinizing them? Are we to permit companies like that to enter on purely economic grounds? Are we to allow companies to operate in this country if their policies would be reprehensible in our social climate? I am not talking about witch hunts or the John Birch Society, much as I dislike it, or anything like that. I do not know how you can keep people like that out. I am talking about companies of the United States which have adopted anti-trade union or anti-labour stances. Are we to let companies like that operate in Canada when the prevailing sentiment in Canada recognizes the value of trade unions and recognizes that labour-management negotiations in a civilized form ought to be encouraged? Those are the factors we must look at. If we overlook them, we may create an enormous amount of chaos in our society.
The government, however, has a perfect excuse under this legislation if anything goes wrong. It can always say: It is too bad that companies with bad labour-management records have come into this country, but the act does not say anything about it; it only deals with economics and therefore, although we may not like these companies, we cannot do anything about them since we are restricted by the act. Instead of allowing us to develop in freedom, the act will become a sort of strait jacket that the government has voluntarily put on.
At present the government has power to control foreign takeovers. It has exercised these powers. Therefore it must not tell us that if this bill is not passed by the end of the session the responsibility will be on our heads because it has no powers to prevent takeovers. It has prevented them before when a takeover was against the public interest and when there was public pressure to block it. This bill will give the government a beautiful out. It will not
Foreign Takeovers Review Act
need to respond to public opinion or political pressure because it can hide behind this legislation. For example, will the government ask the foreign company to assure the Canadian people that the Trading with the Enemy Act of the United States will not apply to that company's operations in Canada? The government can say that this legislation does not cover matters like that, that it covers takeovers on economic grounds alone, and that therefore a company will be allowed to enter this country if it can show that its operations will be profitable, that it can produce so many gadgets and create more jobs.
The government will be able to say that political considerations do not come under the act. The point is, Mr. Speaker, that political considerations are important and can seriously affect our foreign policy. There is no reason in the world to permit companies coming into Canada to operate under a dual loyalty. Perhaps the primary loyalty of the company may be to that country in which its parent has its head office. But let us make no mistake. The United States Trading with the Enemy Act does not exempt the branch plant of a United States corporation from its provisions. The subsidiary of an American corporation is subject to the provisions of that act and other acts of that type that may be passed by the United States.
It might be argued that there is not a great deal of evidence to indicate that the Trading with the Enemy Act of the United States has seriously inhibited the operations of Canadian branches of foreign corporations, but there is enough evidence to indicate that it has to some extent in the past and may in the future have some very serious effect. Even if the effect is slight, we as a nation should feel insulted to think that for the sake of a takeover and bringing more capital into this country, we are prepared to limit our sovereignty seriously in relation to those with whom we do business, have cultural relationships and normal contact. We should not have to go about the country watching those who are subject to pressure based on political judgments in the United States.
Other problems will arise such as the amalgamation of firms in Canada. In a system like ours the situation is seldom the same from year to year. The number of competitors in industry will vary as technology becomes more and more expensive and as the need for size and skill increases. Mergers will then have to take place. Conversely, as the amount of money that is needed to acquire certain kinds of technology diminishes, some of these corporations should be split into smaller units because it is more economical. These changes have to take place in society. They are not taking place in Canadian society because of American legislation.
American corporations are subject to the Sherman act, the combines legislation of the United States. Even where it appears that some mergers between branch plants of foreign corporations in Canada are desirable, they are afraid to do so. They are not only afraid but they are unable to do so because they are subject to the laws of another country.
When looking at takeovers the government should ask these corporations whether they will willingly agree not to

June 26, 1972
Foreign Takeovers Review Act
be subject to the Sherman act but will act according to the needs of the Canadian marketplace and the social and political context in which we live. Is the government going to seek these assurances? There is no evidence that they intend to do so. I think the government would be afraid to even raise the question of the Sherman act or other acts of this nature. I see the minister shaking his head to indicate that he is not scared out of his handsome head. He will have an opportunity later to reply in a somewhat more articulate manner. These are the kinds of problems we are going to face if this legislation is passed in this form.
I want to raise one other point. If I do not raise it, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce will. Perhaps he will say that we do not have a right to make social and political judgments with regard to takeovers because we do not make social and political judgments with regard to anybody else, and therefore, the takeover people will be subject to all the laws of Canada as they now stand. If the minister implies that, he has his head in the sand. He will in fact be saying that an international corporation responds in the same way as a Canadian-owned corporation, but it does not. An American corporation does not respond in the same way as a Canadian or a German corporation. They have different attitudes and rules. The minister will also be saying that because we have failed to make these kinds of distinctions in our economy we should not only continue this kind of failure but also reinforce it.
We are trying to break away from the failures of the past. We in this country have come to the conclusion that foreign ownership is not the great gift we thought it was originally. We know that it has damaged our economy and has created serious problems for us. This legislation is supposed to deal with that. If it does not, what good is it? It is time we dealt with this situation.
We are asking that an attempt be made to deal with this matter in a realistic way. We suggest that all the necessary criteria of economic, social and political judgments be combined when looking at a takeover. In some ways the minister should welcome this amendment because it is going to be very difficult to separate these things when an economic judgment has to be made. It would be much healthier and much easier for whoever is making this judgment to have the power to look at it in its total context. It might be argued that there is no context and that the government has no program, plan or social objective. To a large extent this is true, but the government knows there are some things in this country that are sociably desirable and wanted by the Canadian people. By accepting this amendment, the minister will have an opportunity to take these things into consideration.
The legislation sets out that the government is going to look at things, but it does not say what they have to do in any specific case. If this legislation is to be effective and have any meaning whatsoever, the entire gamut of Canadian needs has to be taken into account. It is for this reason, Mr. Speaker, that we urge acceptance of this amendment.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to make a few comments in support of the amendment moved by my colleague, the hon. member for Waterloo (Mr. Saltsman).

In the past few months I have had occasion to read the two volumes written by Pierre Burton on the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway from east to west. I recommend that during the summer recess the minister find the time to read them. The message that comes across loud and clear in these two superb books is that if the decision to build a railway from Montreal to Vancouver had been made on purely economic grounds the railway would never have been built. If Sir John A. Macdonald and the Conservative Party of Canada had looked at the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway on a purely dollars and cents basis, the railway would not have been built. With a country extending for thousands of miles from east to west, with a very small population huddled close to the United States border, and Toronto, Montreal and even Winnipeg all less than 100 miles from the American border, it is obvious it would have been sensible to build railway connections from Toronto, Montreal, Halifax, Winnipeg and Vancouver to the closest cities south of the border. Had Sir John A. Macdonald and the Conservative Party followed the kind of .thinking inherent in the bill before us today drafted by the government, the Canadian Pacific Railway would not have been built. If the CPR had not been built there Would be no Canada today, there would be no Parliament and we would not be meeting here to debate this bill.
Why was the CPR built? As hon. members know, I am not a great supporter of the way in which it was built or of the kind of subsidies which were given in the form of cash and land grants. But the CPR was built, in the end, despite tremendous opposition from certain financial and political interests in this country as a result of the determination of a Conservative government led by Sir John A. Macdonald who had reached the conclusion that a railway was needed if this country were to survive. This decision was made for political and social reasons. It was not made because of economic reasons. If Macdonald had been called upon to decide the issue on the basis of business considerations alone, the railway would never have been built. So I urge the minister to be less partisan, to be less obstinate in his approach to this amendment. Let him not persist in believing that the bill before us is the be all and end all of what is required. Let him consider all the benefits he will derive in the administration of this legislation if he agrees to the amendment my hon. friend has proposed.
Allow me to give two illustrations which will make it clear why I believe the kind of amendment we are proposing is needed. I shall deal first with the Kootenay and Elk Railway in British Columbia. As hon. members know there are tremendous coal deposits in that province. That coal is presently being removed and sold almost exclusively to Japan. It is being hauled over Canadian railway lines to the west coast where it is shipped. It is now proposed by certain financial interests that a line be built, the Kootenay and Elk line, to the United States border so that the coal can be shipped mainly over United States railway systems and through United States territory to Cherry Point.


Is this on the subject of transportation or takeover?


The minister must have had a difficult weekend because he is usually intelligent, but his interjections today indicate to me that he has had a rough weekend; he is being as stupid as some of his colleagues usually are.


Shame!


The minister knows as well as I do that a ruling by the Canadian Transport Commission forbidding such movement was overthrown by the courts. If the bill before us goes through, on what basis can similar operations be prevented? I am sure the people who propose shipment of this coal over United States lines will be able to demonstrate that it would be cheaper to move it over United States railways rather than via the Canadian Pacific or Canadian National. Obviously, if it were not cheaper they would not be proposing this operation. So I suggest to the minister that if there were a clause in the bill giving the government the right to prevent takeovers on political or social grounds he could intervene to ensure that plans such as I have been describing are not carried out.
I say to the hon. member for Vancouver-Quadra (Mr. Deachman), who is looking askance at me, that he ought to consider these operations in terms of what they would mean if related to job opportunities in British Columbia. Let him remember that not long ago 9 per cent of the labour force in Vancouver was unemployed; there were more unemployed in that city than in Montreal which traditionally has the highest rate of unemployment.
Let me give one other illustration. The hon. member for Waterloo talked about the effects upon United States corporations of legislation such as the Trading with the Enemy Act. It has been frequently suggested that Canadian subsidiaries of United States corporations are not very much influenced by their head offices in the United States. I can think of one case in which such influence could have had a very adverse effect on the people of Canada, particularly those of western Canada.
Several years ago the government of Canada, a Liberal government, made a deal with the Soviet Union agreeing to sell a large quantity of wheat and flour. The Russians then asked that a substantial part of this wheat and flour should be shipped to Cuba instead of being shipped first to the Soviet Union. It so happened, fortunately in one way and unfortunately in another, that there was a substantial overcapacity for flour production in this country at that time. This was the situation: some 80 per cent of the flour production facilities in this country is controlled by United States companies whose head offices are outside the country, and they were forbidden to produce flour for Cuba. Suppose this surplus capacity had not been available. Had this been the case we could not have fulfilled the wishes of the Soviet Union with respect to shipment at a time when we were desperately looking for markets for our wheat and flour.
I suggest to the minister that unless in this legislation there is included a provision such as is proposed by my hon. friend permitting the government to decide the ques-
Foreign Takeovers Review Act
tion of takeovers not simply on the basis of economics but on the basis of political and social requirements we shall be in precisely the same position after this bill has been passed as we are now. The government will have a bill the provisions of which it will be unable to implement in order to prevent takeovers. I predict that this is what will happen. I am very sceptical that, with the present minister and government in office, many questions will be asked or takeovers prevented, though I hope I am wrong and that when the legislation does pass the minister will demonstrate that he is a tiger instead of a pussycat. However, I suggest that if any United States company or company whose headquarters is in some other country considers a takeover really worth while from its point of view, the minister will face the same situation as in the case of the Kootenay and Elk railway which I talked about a few moments ago. If such is the case, the company will be told that under the law a takeover is not permitted. The only reason the minister will have for such decision is that the takeover does not suit the economic interests of this country.
The company in question will then do precisely what the Kootenay and Elk railway did, which is to go to the court.
I am sure that companies like General Motors or some of these multinational giants will have the economic, statistical and financial resources at least to match those of the government of Canada, and they will be able to demonstrate, at least to the satisfaction of the court, that from the point of view of economics, from the point of view of the company itself, from the point of view of the producer and so on, a takeover is a good thing. Under those circumstances the court will probably rule, as it did in the Kootenay and Elk Railway case, that the minister does not have the authority to do what he proposes to do even if he proposes to do it, which I doubt.
Therefore, in all seriousness and in my usual non-partisan way I suggest that the minister agree to the amendment proposed by my colleague which will give him the kind of power he needs if this bill is to enable him to do what he told the people of Canada he wants done.


Mr. Speaker, it might be helpful for me to say a few words at this point in the discussion to prevent useless interventions.
I presume no one in this House has the monopoly of intelligence, good will or good intentions and, for my part, I do not totally disagree with the intentions or motives which inspire my hon. friends in the presentation of the amendments before the House. We will agree readily on that point.
But an act is not a patriotic oration such as those we hear on St. John the Baptist's Day, nor is it a speech on the Canadian Pacific. It must be characterized by some logic, by well defined objectives, factors or criteria of judgment. In an act, we must also distinguish between what is essential and subordinate. A subordinate matter can be extremely important, but in the context of the provisions, we must grant it less importance than something to which we give priority.

June 26, 1972
Foreign Takeovers Review Act
It is from that point of view, Mr. Speaker, that the bill now under consideration and more especially clause 2 has a certain logic which I will now try to explain.
There are three concepts which we must bear in mind. First, the concern in Canada. Second, the objectives of the legislation. Third, the factors which must be taken into consideration to assess whether the acquisition of control is acceptable.
Three words, then, should hold our attention: "concern", "objectives" and "factors".
At the beginning of clause 2, it is clearly established that the Canadians, the government and the Parliament of Canada are concerned about the weakness of the effective control of Canadians over their economic environment, owing in part to the considerable foreign investments in Canada.
The economic concern is underlined as the most important. That does not mean that the economic situation does not have political, social and cultural effects which do not also concern us; it is a matter of insisting on what is essential, that is the concern about the economic factor. The other consequences result from it.
In order to underline that, mention has been made here only of the effective control by Canadians of their economic environment, and not of the effective control of their environment politically, socially, culturally, and what have you.
In other words-I know this is all very subtle, but as I am addressing a very sophisticated audience, I do not hesitate to do so-had the concern been essentially political or cultural, a totally different bill might have been put before the house.
And I also stress, particularly for the benefit of my hon. friend from Hamilton-West (Mr. Alexander), the practical difficulty in making the distinction between economic, social and political aspects of such issues, and the danger involved in defining the purpose of the bill as economic, social, cultural and political. There definitely is a danger there. At a certain point of the discussion, the wording now recommended by the hon. member for Hamilton West may have been considered, but the purpose, I repeat again, was to determine what the bill would focus on, and it does emphasize the economic aspect. Political, social, and cultural consequences of the economic situation are not being ignored, but the key point, the emphasis is on the economic aspect.
Why so? For a very practical reason. It is in fact very difficult to determine the social, cultural, and political factors involved in deciding whether a takeover is valid. This could lead to all kinds of considerations quite remote from the main concern as expressed in the bill, which is economic.
The hon. member for Hamilton West did put specific questions. He asked me, for instance, whether research and development will be considered in the decision.


A point of order, Mr. Speaker.


Order. The hon. member for Hamilton West is rising on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I am continually hearing the minister refer to the hon. member from Hamilton. I appreciate his ability to recognize my input in this House, but this is not my motion. The hon. member for Fundy-Royal will be expressing his thoughts, but I think the minister should give the credit to the member who has put the motion on the order paper.


Mr. Speaker, on a point of order, let me say I realize it is very difficult to distinguish between myself and the hon. member for Hamilton West, but I am shorter than he is.


The hon. member for Waterloo asked me if the government was going to consider factors like research and development and the Trading with the Enemy Act in an assessment of the significance or otherwise of the benefits for Canadians in a takeover. The answer is, most probably, and certainly in the case of research and development and in the case of the Trading with the Enemy Act because these are essentially economic considerations. There may be a social or cultural aspect to research and development, but basically research and development is an economic matter. There is no doubt about that, and consequently research and development intentions will be factors borne in mind. As a matter of fact, this is indicated as such in Clause 2 (2).
The hon. member brought up a number of other considerations such as language and behaviour of the company in respect of unions. I could mention a number of other such aspects of company behaviour, for example, allowing employees to be candidates in the political arena.
As we leave the more precise economic considerations and indulge in social and economic factors there is much more room for judgment than there is in the straight economic field. Let me give you a straight example. Suppose a possible acquirer has a very bad record for unlawful pollution in France, Germany or anywhere else; then I would think this might become a factor in the analysis.
With regard to language, because of the possible consequences, I would hesitate to consider that sort of thing because it might get us involved in the business of implementing provincial legislation which itself is in the process of debate. I am not giving legal advice because obviously I cannot, but in the case of language I would say to the potential acquirer that if he is going to Quebec he should certainly be aware that the Quebec government and the Quebec population have specific views about the use of the French language in plants. The potential acquirer should be aware of that. I was talking to a new investor yesterday and he was very much aware of it.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the minister to point out to me which one of the five factors set out in subsection 2 of clause 2 he would use as his authority for dealing with the matter of language as he has just outlined it to the House?


That is exactly what I am saying; I am not going to deal with language. I am not going to make it a factor for the allowance or otherwise of a takeover because it is not covered specifically in the factors. That is
June 26, 1972

exactly why we want this bill to concentrate on economic matters and not on social, political or cultural matters. You are making the case for me because language is not covered in the bill.
In order to be practical, if I were involved in this business of screening I would certainly make sure that the company about to proceed to take over was aware that there is discussion and debate and the possibility of some future laws in Quebec about the use of French. As a service, an unpaid one, to the potential acquirer, I would make sure he was aware of these facts. That is why the preoccupation and concern of this bill are couched in economic terms. I am the first one to say that political, social and cultural consequences are not unrelated to the importance of foreign investment in Canada, but that is not the first preoccupation of this bill. I started my remarks by saying that this bill tries to make clear what should be clear.

The second concept I have pinpointed relates to "objectives". The second amendment suggested to us recommends that the main objective be two fold, that is first to aim at profits, "significant benefit" to Canada but also as a second main objective, namely "ability of Canadians to maintain effective control over their economic environment."
In fact, this amendment would tend to establish a double main ob