Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 41(2) I would like to table two documents, one in English and one in French, which in reality are progress reports on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women.
When the report of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women was tabled in the House in 1970 there was much to be done in creating equal opportunities for and removing discrimination against women in Canadian society. The government set up an interdepartmental committee on the status of women to analyse the recommendations of the royal commission and to determine the best ways that the government should proceed with these recommendations. Mrs. Freda L. Paltiel was seconded from the Department of National Health and Welfare to be coordinator of the committee. This interdepartmental committee was composed of representatives from various departments and agencies. Its report was submitted to me in December, 1971. The report of the royal commission consisted of 167 recommendations, many of them falling under the jurisdiction of the federal government, some falling under the jurisdiction of the provincial governments, some joint federal and provincial and others under the jurisdiction of business and industry.
The federal government has taken significant action both administratively and legislatively with regard to the recommendations under its sole jurisdiction and in doing so has played a more important role in leadership. In the Status of Women in Canada 1972 booklet, reference is made to the work done by the federal government. But our work cannot stop with our many accomplishments. We must make more and more significant advances until every man and woman in this country will have equal opportunities in every field of endeavour. The booklet I am tabling is a signpost but not a resting place and we must continue to work together as Members of Parliament and as Canadians to ensure equality for all in our country.
With your permission, Mr. Speaker, I should like to draw your attention to some of the highlights of the report.
The Canada Labour (Standards) Code has attempted to remove discrimination in employment. The Women's Bureau of the Department of Labour has provided an invaluable service to women who work.
The Unemployment Insurance Act provided universality as well as better protection to women in the work force. The government has provided maternity leave under the Canada Labour (Standards) Code and maternity benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act.
A new family planning division has been set up in the Department of National Health and Welfare to co-ordinate federal endeavours in the field of planned parenthood.
National Health and Welfare, Treasury Board, the Solicitor General and Manpower and Immigration have created senior positions for women in their departments to give advice on programs and activities with regard to women in their mandates.
The Local Initiatives Program, among other accomplishments, has established approximately 90 day-care centres across Canada. Child care allowances are now a deductible expense under the Income Tax Act.
The bill to amend the Adult Occupational Training Act which received first reading last week in the House of Commons will provide women who have worked one year at any time in their lives the opportunity to receive training as well as training allowances for the first time.
An equal employment opportunity office has been set up in the Public Service.
The cabinet has issued directive No. 44 directing deputy ministers to take steps to encourage the assignment and advancement of more women into middle and upper echelon positions.
The Family Income Security Plan, which has now passed second reading in the House of Commons, would provide increases in benefits to low-income families and assist sole support mothers.
The government has also paid special attention to the needs of native women in its supportive training programs and leadership development.
Major grants have been given to planned parenthood federation of Canada and Serena.
The federal government has also recently helped finance the Strategy for Change conference involving women's organizations from across Canada.
Women's groups across Canada, studying the report, have received, when needed, financial support.
The government actively continues to seek out competent women for appointments to boards, commissions, judgeships and other senior posts.

May 4, 1972
Status of Women
Finally, amendments have been introduced to the Criminal Code to include equal jury duty for men and women in criminal cases. These amendments propose also to remove the anachronistic vagrancy clause as well as whipping as a penalty, which is sex discrimination in reverse.
Mr. Speaker, I shall close my remarks by reiterating that the government does not intend to stand still. We shall strive to work towards elevating the status of women in Canada to the point where discrimination by reason of sex will be a thing of the past.


Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to have this opportunity to reply to the minister's statement even though the statement is late. The report of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women was tabled, I believe, in December, 1970, and for the life of me I cannot understand why it has taken the government until May, 1972, to give us some idea of their views on it.


That is quick for them.


I say with the greatest of respect that this statement perhaps indicates that we are not too far from an election because the government has now said that it has some interest in women.


Oh, oh!


Hear, hear!


I also wonder, if the minister has had this report in his possession since December, 1971, why the Women's Liberal Association suddenly met with him yesterday and immediately after that meeting we have a statement by the government. I think more people are involved with the status of women than those in the Women's Liberal Association.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I want to go on record as saying that among the women of Canada, and I have said this before, are women of skill. We have not drawn on their skills sufficiently. It has not been recognized that among our women there is a reservoir of skills which certainly can play a meaningful role in the development of our Canadian way of life.


Hear, hear!


May I say that for our people in 1972 Canada must not only be a land of opportunity but a land of equal opportunity, and that means equal opportunity for all individuals regardless of race, creed, colour or sex.


Hear, hear!


I do not know why, in a statement of such importance, the minister evaded one of the most important issues facing women today, the issue of abortion. It seems to me that for one reason or other the government is deliberately avoiding facing this issue. The abortion rate is going up continually. Women are in dire financial straits. As I understand it, the government has

indicated that it will set a date when abortion can be debated in the House. Why was this not mentioned in the minister's statement?
Another area I ought to mention is the LIP program. With all due respect, it seems to me that the LIP program serves the interests of women who have reached the secondary level of education. What happens to those women who have not reached that level of education and really need help but have not been helped by the LIP program since it affects those with a secondary level of education?
I am pleased to note that the government is moving in the area of fair employment practices. That is a step in the right direction. I understand that the Minister of Labour (Mr. Mackasey) intends to bring in amendments to remove bias in employment on grounds of age, sex and marriage. This step must be taken if we are to be consistent and give everyone an equal opportunity.
I am disturbed that the minister although he boasts of the family planning division which has been set up to co-ordinate federal endeavours in the field of planned parenthood, nowhere in his statement mentions co-ordination of plans with those provinces and municipalities in which competent but overworked birth control and family planning clinics already exist. One of the more important omissions is that abortion was not placed before the minister.
I should like to say a word about another area which I think deserves immediate consideration, that involving those women who belong to the group making up Canada's first citizens. They live in deplorable conditions. They seem to be the forgotten part of our culture. I hope the government will pay sufficient attention to the needs of native women and show leadership in the development of certain programs of benefit to them, particularly in the field of health care. That is an area into which we must move because there is great necessity for such programs.
I have not read the booklet the minister tabled. We shall see what is in it. I hope the statement he made was not made for political reasons. I hope the statement was made to show the government's genuine concern about the status of women.
May I pay tribute to the woman who, I think, has had a great deal to do with the thinking of the government in these matters, Miss Sylva M. Gelber, Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labour. She seems to have her finger on all these problems. I believe it is an extremely difficult job for her alone to bring significant points to the attention of not only members of the House of Commons but also of the people of Canada.
I believe that electoral reform must come in order that more women can be candidates for membership in this august House, not because they are women but because they have compassion, understanding, experience, wisdom and expertise that this House can certainly use.


Hear, hear!


I see that Your Honour is getting a little impatient. There is quite a bit more I could say. We will
May 4, 1972

keep our eyes on the government daily in order to see whether this is a genuine move. I will close by reading a portion of a speech by Miss Sylva M. Gelber on November 10, 1971, to the Canadian Federation of University Women. After having related in some detail the summary of progress that had been made in terms of women, women's rights and legislation affecting them, she closed her speech with this extremely significant paragraph:
From this short summary of the progress made in the enactment of legislation relating to working women, it will be seen that, at long last, the laws required to achieve the goal of equal and fair opportunity for women, are beginning to appear across the land. But the law is merely a tool; and a tool is of little value if it is not used. And even if the tool is used, it is only of value when it is properly used.


Mr. Speaker, I am very glad to be able to respond on behalf of our party to the statement just made by the minister in charge of raising the status of women. I am glad the article in Chatelaine with the questionnaire appeared at this time. I cannot help feeling that it gave a little extra impetus to the production of this statement.
When the report of the royal commission was tabled it provided Canadian women at once with a bible of their rights and a blueprint as to some of the ways in which action must be taken for them to reach the promised land of equality. What does this statement disclose? It discloses that there have been several measures of real substance achieved. I have made reference to these before. The two most important have been under the aegis of the minister now in charge. They are maternity leave under the Canada Labour (Standards) Code and maternity benefits under the Unemployment Insurance Act. More recently there have been amendments to the Criminal Code with regard to women serving as jurors, the abolition of the vagrancy section and one or two other points. Within the Department of National Health and Welfare, there has been the establishment of grants for family planning across this country.
Some pious hopes have been expressed about how the government intends to encourage the appointment of more women to senior posts in the public service. However, apart from token positions where women have been so outstanding that they could not be ignored, these hopes have not been anything more than expressed. One of my colleagues has just made the rather regrettable suggestion that even at this stage there are many members-"MCPs", they might be called-not paying the attention they might at this time. On behalf of the women of Canada, I ask them to listen.


Explain "MCPs".


I will not compete with the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) in that department. As far as the major recommendations of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women are concerned, there has been no action or only microscopic action taken to this point. The major recommendation was for child care centres across the country. While this is obviously a shared responsibility with the provinces and municipalities, the federal government has a tremendous responsibility to fulfil.
Status of Women

Hon. members on my left could perhaps calm down a little so that I may be heard.

The only mention of this matter in the statement today is that under the LIP program the federal government has helped to establish 90 day-care centres across the country.
I would point out, however, that the LIP program is due to end on the 31st of the present month, and you know, Mr. Speaker, what will happen to most of these centres when the grants end. My other comment is that the Royal Commission on the Status of Women said that there is need for 130,000 day-care places immediately. So this is one big piece of unfinished business.
Reference was made to child care allowances. The recent legislation provided for only about half the amount of income tax deductions which is essential if children are to be looked after, and even this minimal concession is hedged about with demands for receipts, the keeping of employer records, and so on. There are many whose wages are not high enough to enable them to qualify for this tax deduction. The report of the royal commission calls for a guaranteed annual income for "single support" parents as the beginning of a guaranteed income across this country for all Canadians.
In regard to the Adult Occupational Training Act, I am glad to learn that women are to be allowed to qualify. The minister told us that women would be eligible provided they had worked for one year at any time in their lives. I should like to know how many women have not worked for one year at any time in their lives.


Hear, hear!


In other words, will the new act apply to housewives or not? Are they considered to have worked one year in their lives? The minister nods. That is good. I hope Hansard will report the nod.
Work on education in the field of planned parenthood has been started and there are already 66 family planning centres across Canada. I would point out, though, that according to experts in the field we need 700 of these centres to give information and advice on family planning. There is also a need for information on abortion as a second line of defence against unwanted pregnancy, as the hon. member who preceded me has indicated.
As for the Family Income Security Plan, we in this party have pointed out that it will take from one-third of our mothers even the little cheque they now receive. They will have to give it to those who are living in poverty because the government has not the courage to institute a fair tax system so as to obtain the necessary revenue from other sources.


Hear, hear!


Women are sending me letters which prove they are well aware that the fair taxation potential exists. I am watching the clock, Mr. Speaker. The first speaker on this subject took six minutes, the next took seven, and I have spoken for just six minutes so far.

May 4, 1972
Labour Conditions
I am afraid the government has laboured mightily in its mountain of red tape and given birth to a very small mouse indeed compared with what is necessary. It is to be hoped that the women of this country will not relax their endeavours but push the minister and the mountain to proceed at a much faster pace toward the goal of equality for women than they have shown up to the present time. Women are grateful for what they have got but, like Oliver Twist, they intend to keep on asking for more.


Mr. Speaker, the list of the government's actions with regard to the status of women is supposed to be impressive according to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration (Mr. Mackasey), but, as stated by previous speakers, such a list has a strong pre-election flavour.
Of course, we approve of all measures to ensure true equality between men and women in this country, but, when that day has come, there will be no need to speak about the status of women. And, as this is being done today, it is an indication that we are far from having reached that objective.
In conclusion, Mr. Speaker, may I quote part of a speech I made on that subject on March 9, 1971, as follows:
However, I feel we should do a lot more to speed up the process of emancipation and progress of Canadian women. On the basis that there is to be no difference between man and woman apart from the physiological point of view, one is entitled to wonder why practically all management and legislative activities are carried out exclusively by men.
Obviously, if the true principle of democracy were to be integrally applied in this House, half of our representatives would have to be women since the population of any country is divided somewhat equally into males and females. Fortunately, the hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway (Mrs. Maclnnis) is here to save a small fragment of democracy.
This situation would be corrected by effecting a new distribution of the Commons seats. Canada could have some 150 constituencies represented by both a male and a female member. Then the absolute equality we are seeking would thus be achieved at the parliamentary level.
Some people will laugh at this suggestion but when we see so many men apparently lost in a maze of thoughts which are more or less constructive, I wonder whether the practical way of thinking and action which characterizes women could not bring a little more efficiency to the business of this House.


Mr. Speaker, I request the unanimous consent of the House to propose a motion on a matter of the most urgent and pressing necessity. This matter concerns the results of a recent survey conducted by the Metro Alliance for Development, a Sydney, Nova Scotia-based group funded under the

federal government's LIP program which, in its report of April 21, 1972, estimates that the real rate of unemployment on Cape Breton Island was in the 29 to 31 per cent range during the February-March period of this year, an increase of 5 per cent from the same period last year.
Recognizing the tragic human and economic effects of such a persisting and drastically high unemployment rate on the morale and human dignity of Cape Bretoners, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond (Mr. Maclnnis)-and I might add that I am sure we will have the endorsation of the government House leader, the hon. member for Cape Breton Highlands-Can-so (Mr. MacEachen):
That this House refer to the Standing Committee on Labour, Manpower and Immigration, the recent report of an unemployment survey on Cape Breton Island, conducted by the Metro Alliance for Development, in order that the four major recommendations proposed by the report may be studied, evaluated and acted upon as soon as possible, to ameliorate this most deplorable and destructive unemployment situation.


The House has heard the motion proposed by the hon. member for Cape Breton-The Sydneys. Under the terms of Standing Order 43 this motion requires the unananimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity and the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43 I seek leave of the House to move a motion of urgent and pressing necessity. In explanation thereof may I preface it by saying it relates to the revelation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police of a staggering increase in the availability, use and illegal possession of psychotropic drugs which took place during the time the drug abuse program of the federal government was in effect. It relates to the freezing of the budget of the nonmedical use of drugs directorate and the fact that the minister has ignored the views of the British Columbia and Nova Scotia medical associations with regard to treatment-


Order. The hon. member knows he cannot argue in support of the motion he is proposing to the House. He should indicate briefly what the motion is that he proposes for the consideration of the House.


You anticipated me precisely, Mr. Speaker. I had just reached that point. Because of the resignation of the director of the non-medical use of drugs directorate, Dr. W. F. Craig, I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Timiskaming (Mr. Peters):
May 4, 1972

That the Standing Committee on Health, Welfare and Social Affairs be authorized to inquire into the activities of the non-medical use of drugs directorate with particular reference to the reasons for the resignation of the director-general of that directorate, Dr. W. F. Craig.


This motion also requires the unanimous consent of the House as it has been submitted under the terms of Standing Order 43. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity. The motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, may I rise on a question of privilege. I submit that the Minister of National Health and Welfare should not have been obliged to say no to that particular motion as he did.


Order, please.


for leave to introduce Bill C-201, to provide for the review and assessment of acquisitions of control of Canadian business enterprises by certain persons.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce regarding the participation of Canadians in companies operating in Canada. Does he intend, either directly or in co-operation with the provinces, to establish guidelines relating to the proportion of senior positions in companies operating in Canada which should be filled by Canadian citizens?


Mr. Speaker, only time will tell how the screening process will be operated, but there are many factors to be considered in making decisions, indicated in the legislation. As my hon. friend probably knows, there is
Inquiries of the Ministry
an item called participation, and the question he raises would obviously come under that heading.


Mr. Speaker, the minister's answer relates only to negotiations in respect of takeovers. I am asking him whether he intends, either directly or in conjunction with the provinces, to establish a guideline regarding the proportion of senior management positions in companies operating in Canada which should be filled by Canadian citizens?


Mr. Speaker, the statement made the other day by the Minister of National Revenue contained a paragraph indicating that other ideas were being explored in this regard.


Oh, let's have an answer.


Mr. Speaker, I take it the answer is that the minister has no such intention. I should like to ask either the same minister or the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs whether it is the intention of the government, either directly or in association with the provinces, to establish any legislative requirements relating to the proportion of directors of companies operating in Canada who must be Canadian citizens?


Mr. Speaker, we have not examined that in my department other than addressing ourselves to responsibilities and powers of corporation directors, as was indicated in the draft competition Bill C-256 which the hon. member knows does not deal with the nationality of directors.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance who may be in a more constructive mood. In view of the recommendation in the report of the task force on foreign ownership in Canada that the government review the role of the Industrial Development Bank regarding the venture capital situation for small companies, has the minister reviewed this legislation and does he intend to introduce an amendment with a view to carrying out the recommendations of the task force in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, we are reviewing these recommendations very carefully. I am not in a position yet to tell the hon. member whether the implementation of them, if we were to decide on that, would require amendment of the legislation.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In light of the finding by Statistics Canada that the level of industrial research and development in 1972 will show little real growth since 1969, are new measures being prepared to accelerate and assist industrial

May 4, 1972
Inquiries of the Ministry
research and development and, if so, when can we expect a statement to be made?


Mr. Speaker, the budget of my department, contrary to those statistics, indicates that the degree of research and development done across the board in Canada with the support of my department is increasing. If my friend wants to look at my estimates he will witness that fact.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. In view of the fact the minister undertook to investigate a serious omission from his monthly report to parliament of a $6.1 million grant to McCain's Foods, and in view of the reported unavailability of the minister to appear before the standing committee until May 18, will he inform the House now why this information was not provided as required under section 16 of the Regional Development Incentives Act?


That was the third grant to McCain's and they were the bagmen in New Brunswick for the Liberal party.


Order, please.


They were the bagmen for the Liberal party in New Brunswick and that is the third grant they got from the Liberal party.


I don't understand-


Oh, oh!


Order, please. I would request hon. members-


That is true and you know it is true.


Order, please.


You are not denying it.


Order, please. I recognize the hon. member for Regina East.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder whether the minister could be given the opportunity to respond to the question.


Are grants only for Liberals?


Order, please. This shouting across the floor-


Act like a minister.


Oh, oh!
(Mr. Crouse ]


Is the Liberal party that broke in New Brunswick?


Order, please. Perhaps we might wait-


It shouldn't be.


Order, please. The minister will be recognized for the purpose of replying to the question when the noise has subsided and the Chair has a chance to hear the reply.


Mr. Speaker, it was agreed that I would go before the committee again. In my opinion it is not fair to say that I delayed because the last time I was there it was understood that it would be the last. I intend to go back and I will be pleased to give the information requested by the hon. member.


Answer the question.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. The minister agreed the last time we were before the committee to provide the information to the committee and indicated he thought he would be available this week to appear before that committee. What is the matter? What is he hiding for?


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State.
Mr. Bernard Bureau, project officer for the Ottawa area, having resigned as a result of political interference in the selection of Opportunities for Youth projects, would the minister now be willing to submit for examination by hon. members, that is by a committee of the House, the practical criteria used in the selection of projects approved under the Opportunities for Youth program?


Mr. Speaker, the criteria used in the selection of projects are those which were sent to hon. members. I am surprised the hon. member should ask that question since he has already had those criteria for two months; had he wanted to study them, he would have had every opportunity of doing so.


He was not here.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question.
Due to the charges of political interference at the decision making level, would the Secretary of State undertake
May 4, 1972

to have an investigation made on behalf of the House, in order to check the truth of those facts or charges?


Mr. Speaker, the truth of those facts is quite easily summed up and requires no investigation. Out of 970 preselected projects in Quebec, 39 have been rejected as a result of consultations with members from all parties.
Two types of considerations were taken into account in those consultations: firstly, to make sure that there was no project liable to be used for partisan purposes by any party whatever, and, secondly, to secure the opinion of the people's representatives in this House on the usefulness of the projects for the community.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a supplementary question.
Can the minister then explain, since he has just stated that he asked the advice of various members, why in the Richelieu constituency the only projects accepted are from Becancour while the remainder of the constituency has been neglected, according to the member for that constituency?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In view of the very great concern expressed recently by the Canadian chemical industry regarding the future potential of that industry because of conditions existing in this country and in the world, and the need for positive government action to get that industry going again, has the government any positive suggestions to put forward to help the industry and, if so, will the minister take the first opportunity on motions to outline what they are?


Mr. Speaker, we are, of course, aware of the difficulties of the chemical industry and efforts are being made to help it. I am personally aware of two important projects now being explored. The government is providing all the support it can.


Mr. Speaker, has the minister considered the very real apprehension of the industry regarding the possible effects of the DISC program on its future, and has he been able to make any positive suggestions to the industry as to what help the government can give if this does become a real problem?


Mr. Speaker, the Canadian government's reaction to the DISC program, as indicated previously by the Prime Minister, other ministers and myself, will be announced in due course.
Inquiries of the Ministry TRADE


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In light of increasing United States' use of DISC and increasing support for extensive import quotas in the United States, particularly by the AFL-CIO, is the government going to seek assurances from the United States government that it will not support the protectionist Burke-Hartke trade bill or similar measures?


Our views on the Burke-Hartke bill are well known. It is obviously the most protectionist bill in the history of the United States, so far as I can remember. It is supported unfortunately by some labour unions in the United States, and we wish that the Canadian unions would make their views known to their counterparts in the United States. Our views on that bill are very well known and one can well imagine what they are. They are extremely unfavourable.


My supplementary question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is the government taking action to upgrade the role of the Canadian embassy in Washington in explaining and protecting Canadian interests at this very crucial time?


Mr. Speaker, I do not see how we can upgrade the status of the Canadian embassy in Washington. It has always had a very high status.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. As the minister knows, the United Auto Workers Union has opposed the Burke-Hartke bill to which he referred. In view of the fact the minister is meeting with the president of the Chrysler Corporation this afternoon at 3.30 p.m., would he obtain from the president of that corporation during that meeting his intentions regarding the DISC legislation?


Indeed I am meeting with these gentlemen, but I wish my friend would not publicize the hour. It is not fair.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, these gentlemen are entitled to see ministers in the way they want and at least without the press at the door.
Some bon. Members: Hear, hear!

May 4, 1972
Inquiries of the Ministry


We are meeting with these gentlemen and, as I said, Chrysler Corporation has not to my knowledge applied for DISC company status in the United States.


Would the minister be in a position now to inform the House as to the intention of the General Motors Corporation in Canada vis-a-vis DISC?


I will have to ask my hon. friend for some patience. I have said a number of times that I would be meeting these companies today and on other days of the week and that I will be reporting fully to the House at the next opportunity, which appears to be the debate on the budget.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In view of the fact that Versatile Manufacturing Limited has decided to expand its operations in the
United States rather than in Manitoba, can the minister inform the House whether his officers have met the officials of Versatile Manufacturing to determine whether the decision was taken as a result of the United States DISC program or because of the taxation policies of the federal government or the policies of the Manitoba government?


Mr. Speaker, Versatile has had a subsidiary in the United States for the last ten years. They have now decided to expand that operation in the United States. They have held conversations with Premier Schreyer and with officers of my department and they say that the DISC program was not taken into consideration in the upcoming expansion.


Can the minister advise the House whether his officials have undertaken an investigation and have had discussions with the officers of Versatile with a view to determining whether indeed the DISC program did have an effect on the decision?


Mr. Speaker, I just answered that question by saying that the company officers say that it has not had any influence. I cannot swear on their behalf that it did not, but that is the information they have provided to us.


My question is directed to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Speaker. I gave him notice of the subject matter. Can he inform the House whether his

department has received as yet the quarterly unemployment forecast from the University of Toronto Institute for the Quantitative Analysis of Social and Economic Policy, dated April 26, 1972, which projects seasonally adjusted levels of unemployment in excess of 6 per cent to the end of 1973, and unemployment as high as 6.3 per cent-


Order, please. The hon. member knows that the purpose of a question is not to convey information but rather to seek information. I would think that perhaps the first part of the hon. member's question, for the time being anyway, might be to the point and the minister might be allowed to reply to that part of the hon. member's question.


I was almost finished, Mr. Speaker.


Oh, oh!


The hon. member might allow the minister to reply to his question. If he seeks further information he may ask a supplementary question.


Mr. Speaker, I did not know whether the hon. member was finished. I rather thought he was.
I want to thank the hon. gentleman for giving me notice of his question. Unfortunately I just received it when I came into the House. Recently my department received this forecast, which I understand is a preliminary forecast only. It is now being studied by officials in my department. I might say to the hon. member that we constantly receive the results of a variety of forecasts and we are continually analysing and comparing them with our own economic model. Whatever forecasts I give, I will give on Monday night.


In view of the level of unemployment forecast for 1973 as I have indicated and the level of 6.3 per cent for the last quarter of this year forecast by the institute, do these forecasts vary significantly from the forecasts made in his own department regarding unemployment levels in 1972 and 1973?


Mr. Speaker, forecasting depends on the assumptions you make, and I should like to compare those assumptions with our own before giving an answer to the hon. member's question. But it is something I might deal with.


Are you assuming an election?


May I ask the minister a question arising out of the fact that on a number of occasions he has said he is not in the business of forecasting, which I presume also applies to the department that advises him. If that is the case, what exactly is the forecasting unit numbering some 36 people in his department doing and how much is it costing the taxpayers to have a forecasting unit that does not forecast?


Order, please. I suggest that that is argument. If the hon. member is actually seeking this information, the question might be placed on the order paper.
May 4, 1972


I have a further short supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Do I gather from the minister's answer that he has made an undertaking to the House that in his budget he will deal with forecasts of the levels of unemployment in 1972 and 1973 and that since he refused to deal with my questions now he will definitely deal with them in his budget speech? Is that an undertaking to the House?


I will talk about the art of forecasting on Monday night.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion who no doubt is familiar with the alarm expressed by APEC regarding the unemployment outlook in the Atlantic provinces. Is he aware of the disappointing capital investment forecasts to which APEC has drawn attention, and does he propose to take any action in this regard?


I think that the House will be glad to learn that Michelin is expanding, as it has announced today, and is going to create about 1,200 new jobs.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary to a previous question with respect to the 1,200 jobs referred to by the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. Two years ago he referred to 1,200 miners being employed in a colliery that will not be open for another two years. Are those the same 1,200 he is talking about now?


Oh, oh!


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. I know he will not make a false statement, like the Minister of Supply and Services-


Oh, oh!


Withdraw!


-who went outside the House yesterday and said he was wrong.


Withdraw!
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I was not going to rise on a question of privilege but in view of the interruption of that inconnu in the back seat I want to say this. Yesterday the Minister of Supply and Services said the Royal Canadian Mounted Police had suggested the removal of the Canadian coat of arms-


He never said that.


-in the interests of security. That statement was false, because he went outside the chamber to appear on television and said he was not referring to that when he answered the question.


Oh, oh!


Shame!


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Minister of Transport about the situation in connection with the Pickering airport. Has he received a request from John J. Robinette, counsel for the People or Planes Committee, suggesting that as the location of this airport is a very controversial one and "the first and basic question which arises in the minds of most people is whether a second airport in the vicinity of Toronto is needed at the present time," and suggesting the setting up-


Question.


-the appointment of a commission-


Question.


Mr. Speaker, they are ringing bells. They will be wringing their hands in a few months.


Hear, hear!


In that letter, he suggested that a commissioner be appointed under the Inquiries Act, "to inquire into and to report upon the question" as to whether such a second airport is now needed. Has he received such a request and what action, if any, is going to be taken thereon?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I received the request and it is presently being considered.


Order, please. The right hon. member for Prince Albert on a supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, I like this.


Oh, oh!


The louder they howl, Mr. Speaker, the more you realize they are here only for a short time.


Hear, hear!


I come back to the second part of the question. The minister is usually very facile and very truthful in his answers. Is any action going to be taken thereon, or is it going to be considered?

May 4, 1972
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, the only answer I can give to the right hon. gentleman who is well known for longevity in more ways than one, including the length of his questions-I had a job getting the kernel out of this one-


Was it sweet?


I can only report that I received the letter yesterday or the day before, certainly early this week or late last week, and I have not had an opportunity to look at it in detail but I will be discussing it with my officials. I can assure the right hon. gentleman of one thing, namely, that there will be a reply to the letter.


Mr. Speaker, may I
ask a question of the Minister of State for Urban Affairs?
In view of recent news reports, would the hon. minister confirm or deny that his department is presently discussing with the provinces the matter of amending the building regulations administered by Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation in order to reduce interest rates and enable more low income families to buy houses?


Mr. Speaker, as I have confirmed in the House, there are discussions going on with the provinces which I expect will lead to amendments to the National Housing Act designed to assist low-income people to buy houses.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary to a previous question. Because of the urgency of the matter I would like to ask the President of the Privy Council if he would consider recommending to the House that the proper committee hear the union officials and company officials who are involved in the DISC program?


Mr. Speaker, I will be glad to consider the suggestion and discuss it with my colleague, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. What progress has he made or is he able to announce that he has succeeded in obtaining a suitable additional vessel for the Newfoundland route in replacement for the Patrick Morris so that the possibility of having to transfer the John Hamilton Grey to that service will be eliminated?


Mr. Speaker, I think the second part of the question is not correct in the sense that this would not be the way in which we would proceed except in an absolute emergency. In other words, I have assured Prince Edward Island that the John Hamilton Grey will continue in that service on the same basis as last year. With respect to the first part of the question, there are people from my department and others now searching the market, and there is a reasonable prospect that we will get a rail car ferry as opposed to a roll-on, roll-off for the Newfoundland gulf service.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister. What government department-I presume either Indian Affairs or Public Works-will be letting the contracts for the proposed new highway up the Mackenzie River valley, and what detailed surveys, if any, of the route have been carried out?


Subject to verification with my colleague, Mr. Speaker, I believe the surveys are going to be conducted under the direction of the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if any consideration has been given to placing the Royal Canadian Engineers in charge of this project?


Mr. Speaker, I do not believe consideration has been given to that. I will gladly make the suggestion to the Minister of National Defence.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of State

May 4, 1972

for Urban Affairs in his capacity as the minister responsible for the National Capital Commission. Has the National Capital Commission made a contract, or is it considering the making of a contract, with the Pinkerton Agency, a subsidiary of an American firm, for providing the services in the national capital area now provided by the Canadian Corps of Commissionaires?


Mr. Speaker, I shall have to make inquiries along that line.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question of the right hon. Prime Minister.
As we near July 1, would the government consider changing the name of Dominion Day to Canada Day-

-so that Canadians will have a national holiday, multicultural and bilingual, to symbolize national unity?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I believe the hon. member will be pleased to hear that the government intends to introduce shortly a bill concerning civic holidays-in a very few days, I repeat-and I am pleased to see that the applause raised by the question of the hon. member makes us expect that this bill will very quickly be passed by the House.


Mr. Speaker, I have an urgent question that I have been trying to ask for two days of the Minister of National Health and Welfare concerning an influenza-type disease that has already stricken a third of the population at Repulse Bay and caused two deaths in that community. Would the minister inform the House whether there have been any further deaths as a result of this epidemic and what his department is doing to check the spread of the disease and alleviate the suffering that is apparently going on?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, when we found out about the outbreak-I think it is influenza according to our latest information-we sent three doctors into the area and one nurse. One of them is the director of our epidemiology
Inquiries of the Minister
section. We have done a house to house survey in the area. Not knowing specifically what strain it was, we ordered a special vaccine from Washington. I expect to have a complete report later this afternoon when one of the doctors returns to Ottawa. I hope very much, as I know the hon. member does, that we have the situation under control.


A supplementary, Mr. Speaker. The minister overlooked informing the House whether there had been any further deaths in addition to the two already reported.


Mr. Speaker, I am only aware of the two that were reported. I understand that one had a heart condition, which was undoubtedly exacerbated by contracting influenza, and there was the other one to which the hon. member referred. They are the only ones I am aware of.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In view of the increasing need for general practitioners now acknowledged by the minister himself, has the minister held discussions with the provinces in order to share the necessary financing required to operate medical schools through the summer semester?


Mr. Speaker, it is not just a question of more doctors and the expense that is involved in training more doctors. Many recommendations are included in the joint study undertaken by the federal and provincial governments to find solutions, to alleviate the problem. One of the solutions is to develop paramedical personnel who can do just as well a lot of the routine work that doctors do, without the heavy expenditure of public moneys for their training.


I should like to ask the minister if he would refer to the speech he made in Napanee in which he said that we were short of general practitioners.


I have a supplementary to the previous question. In view of the high rate of unemployment among general PhDs, I wonder if the minister would consider adopting a program whereby a PhD could convert his degree to an MD?


I have a question for the Minister of the Environment and Minister of Fisheries. Has the minister been able to establish the precise date when he will meet representatives from the Pacific North Coast Co-operative Association in Prince Rupert with respect to the cannery proposals for that area?

May 4, 1972
Inquiries of the Ministry


Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, I am not able to, but I hope within the next few weeks.


Is the minister aware that about eight weeks ago he promised the co-operative he would meet them within six weeks, and he is now projecting it weeks and weeks into the future?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Following yesterday's publication of an Information Canada bulletin stating that the number of so-called therapeutic abortions in Canada has tripled during 1971, compared with 1970, can the minister say whether his department has made an investigation to determine whether all these abortions were therapeutic, or whether they were the result of the practice of abortion on request?


Mr. Speaker, I would advise the hon. member that it is not the function of my department to police the manner in which the law is being applied in this particular area. Having said that, I would advise him that we have officials looking into and compiling of statistics generally with respect to therapeutic abortions in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Has his department yet made a decision on a road plan with the municipality of Richmond in British Columbia for the access system to the Hudon Street bridge and Dinsmore bridge alignment to Sea Island?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is yes to the extent that we have rearranged the design and have submitted it to th