Mr. Speaker, I would like to inform the House about my discussions yesterday with the Hon. Russell Train, Chairman of the United States President's Council on Environmental Quality. Mr. Train is the cabinet level adviser to the president on environmental matters.
Among other things, I drew Mr. Train's attention to the impressive list of studies being carried out by the Canadian government and industry to ensure the protection of our northern environment, especially in respect of the Mackenzie Valley corridor.
We had an exchange of views on the protection of the boundary areas of our coasts, especially protection from oil spills. Mr. Train and I agreed that on the Pacific coast, in the Georgia Strait-Puget Sound-Juan de Fuca Straits area, a better understanding of the marine ecosystem is essential for the effective management and protection of these waters. We arranged to meet soon with United States scientists and other experts to start a comprehensive and detailed joint study which will provide the basis for programs and other measures to protect and enhance the environment of this area.
Since my meeting with Mr. Train last July a joint contingency plan has been prepared which will be effective in the boundary waters of the Pacific and Atlantic coasts as well as in the Great Lakes. The contingency plan for the Great Lakes has been in effect for over a year, and on several occasions it has proved highly successful in containing and cleaning up oil and other hazardous substances. Within a few weeks we shall have a Canada-U.S. agreement which will bring fully into effect similar joint plans on our two coasts.
Mr. Train and I reviewed at length the serious problems of high water levels in the Great Lakes. There are, of course, very severe limitations on what can be done to lower these levels. The fact is that the lakes are full as a result of record levels of precipitation, and the only means of affecting the levels is by controlling the outflows from Lake Superior and Lake Ontario. The International Joint Commission is at present considering a plan to increase storage in Lake Superior, and will hold public meetings on this plan in May.
Mr. Train asked me for my views on several proposals now before the U.S. Congress to increase the outflow of water from Lake Michigan at Chicago. I replied that Canadians would doubtless object to any proposals which would amount to an export of water from Canada.


Hear, hear!


I asked Mr. Train about progress on the U.S. side in implementing our Agreement on Great Lakes Water Quality. Mr. Train was well aware of the concerns which have been expressed about the timing of the U.S. programs. He undertook to provide further details about the flow of U.S. federal government funds this year and next year for the construction of municipal sewage treatment projects in the Great Lakes basin. I reported that on our side, with the co-operation of Ontario, the municipal sewage treatment plant construction program is ahead of schedule. This is the result of our research efforts which have substantially reduced the capital cost of phosphorous removal facilities and speeded up construction. Mr. Train assured me of the determination of his government to meet its commitments and schedules under the agreement, although he suggested there might be some slippage in timetables.
We discussed the proposal to raise the Ross Dam in the state of Washington, which would result in the flooding of the Skagit valley upstream in British Columbia. I conveyed to Mr. Train our determination, and the determination of the British Columbia government, not to allow the Skagit Valley in Canada to be flooded. I also made clear our desire to seek a negotiated settlement which would take account of the legitimate rights and interests of the Seattle City Light and Power Company. Mr. Train said that his government's position was that a valid contract exists between Seattle City Light and Power Company and British Columbia, and that any solution must be arrived at within this context. We both agreed on the desirability of bringing the parties directly concerned to the negotiating table at the earliest possible moment.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my party I want to thank the minister for his statement. I want to make it clear that we in this party are very cognizant of the importance of ongoing discussions such as have taken place over the past day with the President's adviser on environmental matters meeting our own Minister of the Environment (Mr. Davis). Having said that, however, I think that in part of the minister's statement questions are raised rather than answered.
I refer to the minister's remarks on the discussion that he had with Mr. Train on the Mackenzie Valley route. He did not say in his statement to the House just what the implications of those discussions were or what he really
3128

April 10, 1973
Environmental Affairs
said to Mr. Train. The minister is reported in the press as having said that the Mackenzie is our "trump card"; presumably this is in connection with using the Mackenzie corridor as an alternative to the tanker route.
The minister goes on to say, as reported in the press, that he personally does not think that these great oil tankers will be moving in the critical areas off the west coast, but there is no indication in the statement he made today why he believes that. I would remind all hon. members that it is very dangerous for ministers to make statements indicating that a danger that the public is aware of is not in fact a danger. I would remind the minister that statements along the same line have been made in connection with the Skagit River flooding problem. Now we have further similar statements made by the minister with respect to the threat to the west coast by tankers. Apparently the minister is of the opinion that this probably will not take place, but there is nothing in the statement to indicate that Mr. Train agreed with this.
When the minister talks about using the Mackenzie as our trump card, it must indicate, if that is government policy, that a decision has in fact been made by this country that we are going to have a transportation corridor down the Mackenzie. I remind all hon. members that this is not really consistent with the position taken by the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources (Mr. Macdonald), that there is in fact no decision and that Canada awaits an application to the National Energy Board. Hon. members will recall that a motion was moved by this party to have this matter referred to a parliamentary committee of all parties in order that a cohesive policy could be worked out and presented to parliament rather than to leave us dependent on what are perhaps only the pious hopes of the minister whose aim is to placate those people on the west coast who are concerned about the potential pollution problems along that coast.
The minister referred to the Skagit Valley. Some months ago this was considered by the government to be a dead issue but it keeps recurring. It is quite clear from the minister's statement that the American position is that British Columbia and the city of Seattle have a binding agreement, but there is no suggestion that the Americans have agreed in principle with our position that the valley should not be flooded. In consequence, the negotiations that will take place are very much up in the air and we do not know for certain what the outcome will be. When the minister talks about the contract between British Columbia and the city of Seattle and the legitimate claims of compensation by Seattle, it should be remembered that there is some serious question about whether that contract, whether the agreement and whether the IJC order are in fact legal and binding. I would hope that this government is not, by the use of loose wording and sloppy comments, putting the country or the province of British Columbia into the position where it will be impossible, when dealing with the Americans on the subject, to raise as a defence to their exaggerated compensation claims the legal defence that in fact the IJC order is not valid and, as a consequence, the agreement subsequently signed is not valid either.
The minister also referred to the Great Lakes Water Quality Treaty and indicated that Mr. Train said there

might be some slippage with respect to the United States meeting the deadlines regarding the regulations that they must meet, as mentioned yesterday, by April 15. I hope that there will be some assurance from the government today that the Canadian position is that the regulations which were in fact supposed to have been ready are ready and that there is no delay so far as Canadian participation in the preparation of these regulations is concerned.
Lastly, I want again to emphasize the importance that my party puts on ongoing discussions. I thank the minister for his statement but I end with the warning that statements made in the House of Commons ought to be consistent with statements made outside the House of Commons. It ill behooves the government or any member of it to make statements that tend to lull the citizens into an acceptance of a position in which they do not have to continue to maintain vigilance in areas as important as the pollution threat to our west coast.


Mr. Speaker, the members of the New Democratic Party in the House welcome the interesting statement made by the Minister of the Environment regarding his meeting with Hon. R. B. Train, Chairman of the United States President's Council on Environmental Quality. I should like to tell the minister that such meetings in our opinion are very essential if we are to obtain a united approach to our joint international environmental problems. Some of the comments made by the minister were extremely interesting. He covered ten specific points. There is not enough time to go over them in any detail, but I must say he has given us just enough information to make hon. members start asking questions about the depth of the talks he had with Mr. Train.
To begin with, he mentioned the discussion and the turning over of information to Mr. Train in connection with the Mackenzie River Valley. I suggest that the minister ought to level with the House and turn over the same type of information to hon. members.
We have not received in detail the context of the studies that have been done on the Mackenzie, and we should like to know whether the minister indicated clearly to Mr. Train that this could be the alternative to a tanker route down the west coast of British Columbia. It is time that members of the opposition were taken into the minister's confidence. It is time that we had a full and open discussion on where Canada is going with respect to this problem.
I might mention another interesting point. I noted that there was talk about an exchange of information regarding the east and west coasts of Canada, what they are going to do to control oil spills and so on. This is good. I suggest to the minister there is one very important factor that must be taken into consideration if we are to prevent oil spills, and that is the setting up of some type of traffic control system on both the east and west coasts. It must be a very efficient control system that will go a long way toward eliminating the numbers of shipwrecks that take place resulting in disastrous oil spills which affect the ecology and marine life of both the east and west coasts of Canada.
April 10, 1973

Another point that certainly warrants comment is the fact that Mr. Train asked for the minister's views on several proposals now before the United States Congress to increase the outflow of water from Lake Michigan at Chicago. Our party views with apprehension any suggestion of increased Canadian flows to any river in the United States. It means a further export of Canadian water before any discussions are entered into. I was pleased to hear the minister say that the Canadian public would probably not look upon it with favour. I agree with him. Parliament and the people of Canada must jealously guard this great natural resource and ensure that we do not make any more mistakes such as we made with the Columbia River treaty when we gave away a tremendous power potential for peanuts.
There is another point in connection with the clean-up of the Great Lakes. The minister used the term, "slippage in the timetable." I suggest to the minister this is not the only timetable where some slippage has taken place. We have had some slippage in our timetables as far as environmental problems in Canada are concerned. I suggest to the minister that we very carefully examine not only the water pollution problems in the Great Lakes but the problems relating to air pollution. There is a vast amount of air pollution drifting into Canada and an exchange of pollution in the international boundary area. This must be taken into consideration and some satisfactory solution worked out at a very early date.
I wish to make some comment on the Skagit. I come from British Columbia and, as the minister indicated, we do not want the Skagit Valley flooded. I think it has been made clear to the American authorities that under no consideration will we go along with the raising of the Ross Dam and the flooding of the Skagit Valley. 1 urge the minister and the government to take a much firmer stand and to tell the American authorities that under no consideration are we going to allow the dam to be raised and a further chunk of Canadian territory flooded.
I welcome the minister's statement. I hope we will have further clarification of what he has said today.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. minister for informing us of his conversations with Mr. Train, the American government representative, about the Canadian environment.
Mr. Speaker, before making any comments, I should like to point out to the minister that I was given the English version of his statement at 1:45, and that when I came to the House at two o'clock I was sent a polite note that reads as follows:
We regret to inform you that the French translation of this statement has not reached us in time for us to let you have a copy.
Please rest assured that we will take steps to prevent any reoccurrence of such a delay.
And I have just been given the French version at 2:15.
Mr. Speaker, an Official Languages Act has been passed in Canada by the federal parliament and I consider that the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) should instruct all his ministers to issue their statements in both official
Family Allowances
languages. If a statement is in French, there should be an English translation to accompany the French text, and vice versa. In this way, there would be no problem about two official languages. Before we speak about the environment, we should deal with the matter of the two official languages. I therefore suggest that the right hon. Prime Minister instruct his ministers to that effect. I have nothing against either of the two languages, on the contrary, I should like to see them both respected, first of all in parliament, because it is we who passed the act.
Mr. Speaker, with regard to the environment on our east and west coasts and in the Great Lakes, and also to air pollution, I consider that it is in the interests of both the United States and Canada to come to fair, not "lion's-share" agreements by which the Americans would take their responsibilities, and Canadians would follow suit in order to protect the environment in our country and, incidentally, in the United States.
I feel that studies, discussions and talks which took place during these past few days specifically tend to halt pollution of Canadian territorial waters, of the Great Lakes as well as of the air. I urge the government to pursue the debate, not indefinitely and to no purpose, but in a manner likely to solve the problem and allow to depollute water and air and thus protect our population.


Mr. Speaker, I raise a question of privilege at this time because I have just been informed that members of the press gallery have been excluded from the government lobby. I just want to say I hope no attempt will be made by anybody to prevent members of our party from having the privilege of meeting members of the gallery in our lobby. We have found that the opportunity available to members of the gallery to meet members of our caucus in the lobby has not been abused, and we certainly do not intend to raise any objection to their continued access to our lobby.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I rise pursuant to Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity to request the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion.
Since the inception of family allowance payments in 1945 the consumer price index has more than doubled to its present level of 145.7 per cent and as a result the mothers of this country have lost the race between population and inflation. As an interim measure to tide us over until a better system could be developed, family allowances have not only failed to close the gap between 1945 buying power and present buying power but have also failed to increase in step with the constant escalation in the cost of living. So it is obvious that motherhood has lost

April 10, 1973
Great Lakes Water Levels
its battle with inflation. I therefore move seconded by the hon. member for Hillsborough (Mr. Macquarrie):
That the government come to the aid of motherhood in its fight against inflation by reintroducing the family income security program into the House no later than the end of this week, and, further, that it restore the buying power of the family allowance for all Canadians to bring it in line with the 1973 consumer price index.


Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent. The motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to move a motion under Standing Order 43 concerning an urgent matter which has already been touched upon in the statement made by the Minister of the Environment, that is, the growing damage being caused in the Great Lakes area by high water levels in that lake system. I hope the hon. member opposite whose job it is to shout "No" to every proposition under Standing Order 43-


Order, please. Will the hon. member kindly indicate the terms of the motion so that the Chair may inquire whether there is unanimous consent under the terms of Standing Order 43?


No!


Oh, oh!


I will, Mr. Speaker. I move seconded by the hon. member for Brant (Mr. Blackburn):
That the government make Canadian forces personnel available to assist the municipalities in constructing protective works at no cost to the municipalities involved, and further that the government offer emergency short-term funding, to be shared on a 50-50 basis with the provinces, to pay for the cost of such works.


Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent.


Mr. Speaker, because of the fact that persistent representations to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration (Mr. Andras) and the Minister of the Environment (Mr. Davis) have not resulted in the elimination of the discriminatory aspects of unemployment insurance regulations as they pertain to fishermen, I move, seconded by the hon. member for St. John's East (Mr. McGrath):
That a special reference be made from the House to the committee that these regulations be immediately reviewed with the aim of eliminating discrimination against fishermen which is now placing thousands of fishermen unnecessarily on welfare.


Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity. The hon. member's motion cannot be put.


On the order: Motions:
April 3,1973-Mrs. Maclnnis (Vancouver-Kingsway):
That the first report of the Special Committee on Trends in Food Prices, presented to the House on April 2, 1973, be concurred in.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order respecting the procedure of the House today. I can say that there have been discussions among representatives of all the parties in the House, including one of the representatives of the independent members, and I think you will find that there is agreement on two points. The agreement is, of course, subject to the debate itself being allowed.
The two points are, first, that the motion be moved and that the debate take place not now but after the oral question period and, second, that the time limit on speeches in today's debate be 30 minutes for the first spokesman for each of the four organized parties and 20 minutes for all other speakers. I believe you will find that there is agreement on these two points.


Is it agreed and so ordered by the House?


Agreed.


Hon. members may recall that when the motion was originally put there was some doubt on the part of the Chair on a small though perhaps important point of order but one which in the view of hon. members might be overlooked. In any event, this aspect of the matter might be looked at briefly when we reach the item on the order of business after the oral question period.

April 10, 1973

Is it the wish of the House that we proceed with routine proceedings, then go to the question period, and then return to motions for the purpose of putting the motion standing in the name of the hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of the Environment. When the minister says that he hopes to persuade the United States to abandon Cherry Point as a terminal for the tanker route down the west coast from Alaska and to go farther down to California as the terminal, can the minister say whether he made it clear to the hon. Mr. Train that the Cherry Point terminal is unacceptable to Canada, and that this terminal must be abandoned as a necessary basis for any co-operation with interests in the United States in transporting natural gas from Alaska via a Mackenzie valley pipe line to the United States mid-west?


Mr. Speaker, at our meeting yesterday we discussed pollution problems and environmental hazards along the boundary between Canada and the United States. We did not discuss oil and gas policy as such.


Mr. Speaker, when the minister says that he hopes to persuade the United States to abandon Cherry Point as the terminal for the tanker route from Alaska, does this mean that the government of Canada has decided to take the position that the elimination of the Cherry Point terminal should be a condition prior to any co-operation or agreement regarding the use of a Mackenzie valley pipeline for the transmission of gas from Alaska to the United States mid-west? Has the Canadian government taken such a position?


No, Mr. Speaker, but I can tell the Leader of the Opposition that Cherry Point is now adequately supplied with oil through the Trans-Mountain line from Alberta, and I believe this should always be the case.


Mr. Speaker, 1 wish the minister would answer the question, but I think he did when he said no. When the minister says that he hopes to persuade the United States to abandon Cherry Point as a terminal, does that mean that the Canadian government has already agreed to the construction of a gas pipeline down the Mackenzie valley to transport gas? Or is the position of the Canadian government still that frequently enunciated by the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, namely,
Oral Questions
that this is a decision that must be made by the National Energy Board? In other words, does the minister know what he is talking about?


Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition posed two questions. The answer to the first question is no, and the answer to the second question, namely, whether I know what I am talking about, is yes.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of the Environment. Having in mind the criticism in recent days by the head of the Science Council of Canada, Dr. McTag-gart-Cowan, of what he calls the snail's pace progress being made by the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment to protect the west coast of British Columbia from potential oil spillage along the tanker route to Cherry Point, which is within 18 miles of my riding, is the minister satisfied with the protection that exists, or will he pay heed to the warning issued by the head of the Science Council within the last four or five days?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think I will ever be completely satisfied with the measures that we are taking, but our performance recently on the west coast relative to the spill from the freighter Irish Stardust was much better than that with respect to the Arrow with which Dr. McTaggart-Cowan is familiar.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of the Environment. Can the minister tell the House whether the government intends to take further measures, possibly along with President Nixon, to change the Cherry Point terminal, and will he tell the House why the government agreed to a contingency plan that does not definitely eliminate the most significant danger of the TAPS tanker route, which is the Cherry Point terminal?


Mr. Speaker, I am certain the hon. member for Vancouver South is aware that there is a great deal of traffic already moving through the Strait of Juan de Fuca and through the waters about which we are concerned off Cherry Point. Some of the vessels in that area now are carrying oil and have done so for the last 50 years, so we are concerned about contingency measures there now.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the remarks of the Minister of the Environment, but can he tell the House upon what possible basis he was able to say to the public through the press that the Mackenzie is the trump card and, further, that he does not see any real possibility of tankers moving in the critical areas off the west coast, unless he has some sort of agreement in principle or otherwise from Mr. Train?

April 10, 1973
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I do not think we should clear our statements of policy with officials from the United States.


Order, please. I realize the hon. member for New Westminster has a supplementary question, but perhaps he might allow the Chair to complete the first round of questions and return to this matter in a short while. I will then recognize that hon. member for his supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Communications arising from his announcement last Friday that the government has decided to suspend the decision of the Canadian Transport Commission approving increases in rates and charges by Bell Canada. Can he now inform the House when the government expects to announce its final decision on this matter?


Mr. Speaker, by an official ruling adopted yesterday by the Cabinet, the decision has been suspended for a 90-day period for the purpose of study.


Mr. Speaker, I understand that the minister says the suspension is for 90 days. Can he assure the House that he will within that period make a final decision, which I hope will be to rescind the order of the Canadian Transport Commission?


Mr. Speaker, I think that in so restricting the suspension of the decision, the government has implicitly undertaken to take a decision, whatever it may be, within 90 days.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a final short supplementary question. Last Friday when the minister made the announcement he made no suggestion of any time limit in respect of the suspension. Will he inform the House why he is now talking about a limit of 90 days for the suspension rather than giving himself enough time to make sure he can complete the studies he requires?


I did not mention any date in my statement on motions, Mr. Speaker, but the legislation provides that a decision cannot be delayed indefinitely. When the government suspends a decision, it must change the date set by the commission itself for another specific date.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question of the right hon. Prime Minister.
In order to take the opportunity of the forthcoming visit of Chancellor Willy Brandt in Washington next May 1 and 2, has the Canadian government invited the leader of the government in Bonn to come to Ottawa during that trip?


Mr. Speaker, such an invitation was not sent.


I would like to ask a supplementary, Mr. Speaker.
Does the right hon. Prime Minister not believe that this would prove a marvellous opportunity for Canada to tighten its business ties with Germany and to make the greatest possible use of the vast possibilities of the Federal Republic of Germany?


Mr. Speaker, I share the admiration of the Creditiste leader for that prominent socialist leader in the world today. He has surely played an extremely important part in his country and in Europe. The Canadian government would like to welcome him one day. However, we do not want it to be in connection with his visit to the United States and this is why I answered to the Creditiste leader that we had not invited him on that occasion.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In view of the increase in interest rates announced by Canadian chartered banks following a similar increase by the Bank of Canada which brought about this action by the chartered banks, will he take the first opportunity on motions to explain to the House the apparent inconsistency in government policy, on the one hand proposing lower taxes to stimulate the economy and on the other authorizing the Bank of Canada to increase interest rates, which will lead to a parade of generally higher interest rates resulting in slowing down the economy?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, there is no conflict of policy at all. The Governor of the Bank of Canada made it quite clear that the monetary policy of the bank would continue to be expansionary. I will be glad to deal with the subject, as I said to the hon. gentleman's colleague, at the meeting of the committee on finance of the House of Commons when it deals again with my estimates next Monday night.


April 10, 1973


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. In reading his answers to questions yesterday on the matter of the increase in the interest rate by the Bank of Canada I gained the impression that the minister does not believe it will cause a contraction of the economy. Is it his position that the increase in the bank rate will have no effect on price levels in the economy?


Mr. Speaker, the increase in the bank rate and the subsidiary action by the chartered banks in raising their prime rates will, of course, do something to the cost of borrowing money.


It sure will.


But we will still have the cheapest money in the world compared with the United States and all the major countries of Europe.


Mr. Speaker, this supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Finance. Given the fact that the answer of the minister suggests that the policy is going to be inflationary, is it the position of the minister that we cannot control inflation in this country by raising interest rates?


Mr. Speaker, I would rather use the word "expansionary" than "inflationary". The hon. gentleman ought to take into consideration that if the present expansion in loan requests reflecting the expansion of the economy were to continue at the earlier rate of interest, this might well have involved over-expansion of the economy which the hon. gentleman was so worried about the last time he put the question to me on January 26.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the minister a supplementary question. In view of the fact that the four leading chartered banks have followed the example of the central bank by increasing their prime interest rates, and in view of the fact this will undoubtedly stimulate a further increase in the cost of living, may I ask whether he would undertake to attempt to persuade the banks not to make any further increase in their lending rates and, if he is unable to persuade them, would he undertake to bring in legislation to re-impose the 6 per cent ceiling on bank loans which one of his predecessors, the present Secretary of State for External Affairs, took out of the Bank Act a few years ago?


No, Mr. Speaker, I would not give that undertaking. I want to say to the hon. member that, in view of the very heavy demand for credit in response to the expansionary economy in Canada and of the international situation in respect of interest rates, had the present interest rates not adjust-
Oral Questions
ed to these market forces the expansion in money supply might well have added to the inflationary cost of living about which the hon. gentleman is so rightly concerned.


Order, please. I point out that there are perhaps five or six members seeking to ask supplementary questions on this subject. We will try to have as few as possible for each member, but for the moment the Chair will recognize the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands and then the hon. member for Gander-Twil-lingate.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that bank profits have increased substantially since the 6 per cent ceiling was taken off, and their profits last year were over 20 per cent higher than the previous year, would the minister use his good offices to persuade the chartered banks to reduce the service charges they are now levying upon their customers as one means of keeping down the cost of living?


Mr. Speaker, when I was talking to the President of the Canadian Banking Association prior to the increase in prime rates on Monday I asked him to relay to the presidents of all chartered banks in this country that I consider it important that credit not be reduced to Canadian-owned small businesses in this country, nor to those areas of the country that are growing at a slower rate than some other areas, and particularly that the spread between deposit rates paid by banks against money deposited with them and the interest rate charged by the banks on money lent by them should not increase. I am happy to observe that the banks have all indicated that the spread between their prime rate on loans and their deposit rates, either for savings or chequing accounts, has not increased, so that profits obtained by the banks can in no way be affected by-


Order, please. I hesitate to interrupt the minister but it seems to me questions being asked at this time and the answers given by the minister are more in the form of a debate than questions and answers. I would hope that the questions might be briefer and the answers also.


Mr. Speaker, the answer the minister has just repeated is a very vital one for us in Atlantic Canada. In view of our concern about the impact of the present move of the central bank with regard to the interest rate and the concomitant potential impact on unemployment, can the minister say whether any formal direction or communication has been issued to the Bank of Canada or to the Canadian Banking Association indicating the minister's stand, and would he be prepared to table any such documentation?

April 10, 1973
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, no formal communication in that sense was made and nothing, therefore, can be tabled.


In view of the fact that 1969 government policy is beginning to show its head again and as it had such a detrimental effect on slow growth areas, can the minister indicate what guarantee to the slow growth areas in Canada there is that the policy will not have a very serious effect on unemployment?


Since I cannot accept the preamble, I ask the hon. member not to accept the conclusion.


Order, please. The Chair will recognize the hon. member for Calgary North and then we will try to move to the next subject or perhaps go back to the first question and allow the hon. member for New Westminster his supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of State for Urban Affairs responsible for housing whether he will assure the House now, because interest rates are one of the ingredients that have added considerably to the cost of housing which has gone up 100 per cent in the last five years, that there will not be any increase in rents, first, on uninsured direct loans out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund and, second, on all loans which are insured by CMHC to protect Canadians in the purchase of houses?


Mr. Speaker, the interest rate payable under the insured loan provisions of the National Housing Act is set out in the act by legislation, not by the minister or the government.


Mr. Speaker, I do not wish to be argumentative and I appreciate what the minister says, but would he be prepared to see written in the legislation a guarantee to the nation that there will not be a considerable increase in the cost of housing at this time when we are in a national crisis?


If it is the type of amendment that it appears the hon. member is suggesting, it would result in no insured loans being made at all.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of the Environment. In view of the statement he made in the House today and in view of the continuing pressure by the United States

administration to commence the tanker route, will the minister now consider inplementing the 100-mile provision of the Arctic Waters Pollution Prevention Act on the west coast to assist him in his negotiations?


Mr. Speaker, my impression of the hon. member's question is that he is asking that the Arctic waters pollution provisions be implemented on both our coasts. Were that to be done, it would of course, intersect some of the world's major shipping lanes.


In view of the statement the minister made today, can he give us some indication of when the government will take a definitive position with regard to alternatives to the TAPS route because at present there is no assistance being given to U.S. authorities to change that route?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare which I wish to direct also to the Minister of State for Science and Technology. Will the Minister of National Health and Welfare reconsider his estimates for the present year, in consultation with the Minister of State for Science and Technology, with a view to making a substantial increase for cancer research and at least a small contribution to heart disease research since the present government has about the worst record in the western world in this regard?


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a question to the Prime Minister.
Since reports often remain a dead letter and are ignored, could the Prime Minister say whether he intends to follow through with the recommendations of the Commissioner of Official Languages?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think that I have understood the whole question, including the premise, but in answer to the question itself, we do intend, of course, to follow through with the recommendations of the commissioner. Furthermore, we always consider them carefully and we are very pleased in fact that they spur many people on concerning the application of the Official Languages Act.
April 10, 1973


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In view of the statements that have been made by the chairman of Air Canada to the effect that the lack of direction and clear enunciation of government policy is causing a great deal of hardship and difficulty in the administration of Air Canada, is he prepared to make a statement on motions at a very early date to clarify this important matter?


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately it was impossible for me to discuss this matter with the chairman of Air Canada. He is out of the country and has been for about ten days.


Oh, oh!


He will fly back, I am told, by Air Canada tomorrow.


Oh, oh!


I will then have an opportunity to meet him and discuss with him the report of the newspaperman, not the statement.


Could the minister indicate to the House whether he has received a draft set of policy objectives which was forwarded to the minister by the chairman of Air Canada, and can he indicate to the House the nature of his response?


I have many communications with the president of Air Canada, many of them on policies, and this is what we are studying now. I made an announcement in the House the other day that after we had assigned the German and Chinese routes to the companies, within a few weeks we will be in a position to make another statement concerning the future designation of routes. This is based on discussions with Air Canada, and in particular its chairman.


Is it the minister's intention to bring to the House a new set of policies, policy objectives and guidelines for the operation of Air Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I intend to keep on co-operating with these two large companies which are CP Air and Air Canada in order to assign international routes in an equitable manner for the greatest benefit of all Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to return to a question asked earlier by the hon. member for Vegreville of the Minister of Transport. In view of possible conflict between the minister's department and the top management of Canadian air carriers, can the minister say whether, from the government's
Oral Questions
point of view, Canada's air carriers are conversant with what is expected of them?


Mr. Speaker, I do not admit the premises . . .


Order. The hon. member for Richmond.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of State for Urban Affairs. Last fall the government announced its intention to acquire land on the Toronto waterfront for the purpose of creating a waterfront park.


Oh, oh!


Now that summer is fast approaching, can the minister tell the House, and particularly the people of Toronto, what progress has been made and whether Torontonians will be able to enjoy the park this coming summer?


Mr. Speaker, considerable progress has been made in the establishment of the Macdonald park.


Oh, oh!


I had a very successful meeting yesterday with the mayor of Toronto, the chairman of metro Toronto and the provincial minister involved. All of the property is under acquisition by the federal Department of Public Works. Part of the park will be available for the public of Toronto this summer, and we will be having a public information meeting in the mayor's chambers on Monday night.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs, and/or his colleague the Minister of National Defence. In view of Canada's rather unhappy experience in Viet Nam in peace supervision and the lengthy, extended role of Canada's peacekeeping forces in Cyprus, would the minister advise the House in what way those forces might be affected by what appears to be an upsurge of civil unrest in the island of Cyprus?

April 10, 1973
Oral Questions


As the hon. gentleman knows, Mr. Speaker, there is a great difference between the role we have undertaken in Cyprus and that which we have undertaken in Viet Nam. In Viet Nam we are not engaged in peacekeeping but in peace supervision. In Cyprus, we are engaged in peacekeeping in the traditional sense.
As I understand the situation at the moment, most of the problems that have arisen recently in that island have arisen within one community rather than between the Greek and Turkish communities, so it has not affected the operations of our forces so far in any way that we can discern. In Cyprus we are not faced with hostilities between the two communities, but just within the Greek community itself.


Does the minister distinguish between civil unrest between the Greeks, amounting perhaps to a good shooting war among themselves, and the struggle between the Greek Cypriots and the Turkish Cypriots?


Mr. Speaker, our forces are there really to stand between the two communities. It could be, if there is further trouble in Cyprus, that the trouble will expand and our forces could be affected, but I was merely explaining that so far there has not been an outbreak of violence between the two communities between which our forces stand.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Fisheries. In view of the fact that the Minister of the Environment closed down the whaling industry at Blandford, Nova Scotia, last year and to date these men are unemployed, what is the amount of compensation to be paid on an annual basis to the workmen affected, and when will this compensation be provided?


Order, please. The hon. member will recognize that normally this kind of question ought to be placed on the order paper, but if the minister has the information available he might as well give it to the hon. member and to the House now.


Mr. Speaker, a task force has been at work, has visited the three whaling stations on the east coast which are closed down, and is in the process of making recommendations with regard to compensation to plant owners and alternative sources of employment for the workers.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a question that is supplementary or related to an earlier one. About five or six weeks ago I asked the Minister of National Defence whether he would review with his colleagues the question of rent increases for Canadian Armed Forces married quarters, with a view to attempting to hold the line with respect to inflation. Has he had an opportunity to review this matter and can he give us some word about his conclusion?


Mr. Speaker, we have carefully considered rent increases for permanent married quarters and, generally speaking, they are consistent with the rates in what is called "civy" street, or the private sector.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Solicitor General. In view of the fact that yesterday I, as a Member of Parliament, was barred from hearing an address by an assistant commissioner of the RCMP, in what has been described as a talk focusing on labour unrest produced by subversive elements, and in view of the further fact that this talk was given to a private group primarily consisting of businessmen, will the minister assure the House that a copy of Assistant Commissioner Draper's address will be made available not only to myself but to all members of the House?


Mr. Speaker, I will be pleased to look into the matter. This was a conference on industrial security. I have just received notice of the hon. member's question, and I will be pleased to do what I can for him.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question to the minister concerns other papers, apparently classified confidential, which were given to private businessmen but not to representatives of labour or Members of Parliament. I refer the minister to a paper given by Mr. R. Bourne entitled "Government Security Organization." Will the minister also assure members of the House that they will get a copy of that paper?


I will do my best to provide that paper as well. As far as I know that paper did not contain anything that was classified. It contained matters that were public knowledge, but I will get a copy for the hon. member and look into the other part of the question as well.
April 10, 1973


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Communications.
The government having decided to suspend to Bell Canada rate increases for 90 days while it reviews the question and ask certain questions, and as Northern Electric seems to be a subsidiary of Bell Canada, can the minister tell us whether in the course of that special inquiry the government will ask questions about Northern Electric to find out what its profits are-which seem to be considerable?


will consider the question, Mr. Speaker, but off hand I would say the answer seems to be negative since, as far as I know, the Northern Electric Company is not under the jurisdiction of the Canadian Transport Commission.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question.
Could the hon. minister tell the House whether the Canadian Transport Commission will examine the consolidated accounts of Bell Canada?


I will look into the matter
and advise the hon. member at a later date, Mr. Speaker. [English]


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Communications. Will he send a wire or message to the people of Ross River to congratulate them on their initiative in building their own television station despite technical experts' opinion that it could not be done and despite the fact that the Canadian Radio-Television Commission has ignored them?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of what the hon. member is referring to, but I hope he will inform me-


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In view of the reported discrimination in regard to television and radio time by the CBC against two million Canadian senior citizens, would the minister take a look at this problem?
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the question of my colleague, and while the CBC is not under my jurisdiction, I will certainly forward the member's remarks to my colleague, the Secretary of State, and we will discuss that point together.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Reluctant as I am to believe that even this government could be so arrogant as to vote against motherhood, can the minister tell the House if it is his intention to reintroduce the family security plan before the session ends?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think there is any question of arrogance. If the hon. member had been in the House over the last two months he would have heard me state very categorically several times that it was the intention of the government to introduce legislation on this subject-


When?


-during the course of this session.


Hear, hear!


And may I say I hope he will support it when it comes before the House.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Finance who will recall that following his budget of May, 1972, he tabled notice of a ways and means motion relating to the reduction of corporation taxes on profits from manufacturing and processing. Can the minister assure t