I believe the hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby is seeking the consent of the House to return to motions for the purpose of proposing a motion. Is this agreed?


Agreed.


Thank you for your courtesy, Mr. Speaker. I rise to move a motion under Standing Order 43. The motion arises out of the revelation in an article in the Financial Post of tomorrow's date in which the president of General Motors of Canada asserts that the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce made no serious effort to get his company to bring down the prices of their automobiles.
The Minister of Finance, Mr. Speaker, specifically asserted that this year's 7 per cent reduction in corporation tax had better be reflected in lower prices for automobiles. However, the president of General Motors had anticipated that the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce would appropriately threaten the withdrawal of the tax reduction from the automotive industry, having said, "Hell, that's where the strength was."


Order, please. I must interrupt the hon. member. He knows what the rule is. He should indicate what the motion is that he proposes to present to the House.


Mr. Speaker, I will move to the motion. If I may finish the quotation, the president of the company went on to say, "I kept waiting for Mr. Gillespie to bring up tax cuts on the phone, but he never mentioned them." Therefore, in view of the continuing unjustified price differential between North American cars sold in Canada and the United States, I move, seconded, by the hon. member for Nickel Belt (Mr. Rodriguez):
That this subject be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs.


Order, please. Before putting the hon. member's motion to the House I must again bring to the attention of hon. members my qualms and doubts as to the propriety of including accusations or charges in
motions brought under Standing Order 43. Hon. members know that this Standing Order, as we have interpreted it in recent years, does not make it possible for other members whose conduct may be impugned in the statement made in proposing a motion under Standing Order 43 to be given an opportunity for reply. I would think the kind of statement included in the hon. member's proposed motion is a debate and I very much doubt that it is in order. Normally I would hesitate to accept the motion, but to save time and to avoid becoming involved in a long point of order I will ask whether there is unanimous consent.


Agreed.


No.


The motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs a question in light of the increase of 11 per cent in the wholesale price index in the past 12 months. May I ask the minister whether the government has made any projection as to the effect of an increase in wholesale prices of this magnitude upon the cost of living index and whether, in light of any such projection, the government is taking any special measures to mitigate the effect of this increase in wholesale prices on the cost of living other than establishing a committee of the House to study food prices?


Mr. Speaker, the government is following the situation very closely. With respect to questions like this dealing with general trends in the economy, perhaps the Minister of Finance would be the more appropriate minister to whom to direct such questions.


Mr. Speaker, I apologize to the Minister of Finance for putting him on the spot at the request of his colleague. Can he tell us whether the government has made any projection of the effect of the 11 per cent increase in wholesale prices upon the cost of living index in the country and whether, in light of any such projection, which I assume it is the responsibility of the govern-
678

January 26, 1973
Oral Questions
ment to make, the government is taking any measures to mitigate the consequential increase in the cost of living other than the establishment of a committee of the House on food prices.
Hon. John N. Turner (Minister of Finance) Mr. Speaker, I will be able to go into that problem in more detail on an appropriate occasion. I have studied these wholesale price rises and also the industrial price index. One has accelerated a bit and the other has decelerated. They are still at higher levels than I would like to see and may well work their way through the retail index. I might say to the hon. gentleman that in the United States the wholesale price index of food rose at an annual rate of 14 per cent despite a price and wage control imposition during the period. This is a problem that needs solution in a number of ways, but I would not want to invite any suggestion in the House that I have in any way changed my mind either as to the inevitability or the appropriateness of price and wage controls to meet that situation.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate what the minister said about the United States but we have to accept our own responsibilities. I was not asking about food prices. However, since food prices have been mentioned I would ask the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs whether, in view of the 5.1 per cent increase in the wholesale food index last month, the government has met or is meeting with representatives of the food industry in order to devise methods that might be implemented immediately to reduce the impact of this increase upon the retail prices of food, or is the minister simply going to leave this to the committee?


I have not as yet contemplated the holding of such meetings. The Prime Minister has already pointed out the work on contingency planning which the government has been undertaking with respect to controls. Hopefully, the committee will begin meetings soon, and this subject can be gone into in depth in that forum.


In view of the extraordinarily complacent attitude of the two ministers toward this problem-


Order, please. The Leader of the Opposition has the floor, of course, for the purpose of asking a question.


May I ask the minister whether he has yet had an opportunity to study the studies concerning food prices made by the Prices and Incomes Commission, with which he was not familiar when I asked him a question on the subject last week? May I ask him what studies have been done, and whether this work will be available to the committee of the House of Commons inquiring into the question of food prices?


I am not yet in a position to give further information to the Leader of the Opposition on this matter.


What a sense of urgency!


You had better plan for another
contingency.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question I should like to direct to the Minister of Finance. In light of the information propounded in the questions of the Leader of the Opposition and the fact that the government does not appear to have taken much notice of the studies referred to by my leader, will he take into account in his budget presentation the principle enunciated by the Leader of the Opposition and supported by the Economic Council of Canada, that the very high incidence of taxation in this country is an important element in inflation?


Mr. Speaker, I always take very seriously what the Leader of the Opposition says because of the high position he occupies in this House.


You will soon have that same position, John.


Oh, oh!


Mr. T. S. Barnett (Comox-Alberni) Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport arising out of what is reported to be the largest oil spill yet on the coast of British Columbia, at Haddington Reef, near Alert Bay, involving the bulk carrier Irish Stardust. Would the minister tell us what is the extent of the pollution threat, and inform us of what steps his department is taking to cope with an emergency which appears to be one of disastrous proportions?
Hon. Jean Marchand (Minister of Transport) The accident to which the hon. member has referred is, indeed, truly a serious one, though I am not sure that it is the most serious one to date. We do not yet have all the facts at our disposal; we learned about the occurrence yesterday afternoon at approximately 1.45, if my memory is correct. The Department of Transport and the Department of the Environment are both presently looking into it. The hon. member knows that the ship is now in harbour, in fact, in drydock. The damage has already been done but it is not increasing at the moment. I am waiting for a comprehensive report so I can tell the House exactly what happened and to what extent property and beaches have been damaged.
May I ask the Minister of National Defence whether he can inform us which elements of the forces at his disposal are assisting officials of the Department of Transport to cope with this situation?
January 26, 1973


Mr. Speaker, the department is assisting. We have been fully informed of the oil spill but I cannot give the details of the exact number of personnel or the equipment being used.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question relating to the same matter. May I ask either the Minister of Transport or the Minister of the Environment whether they can inform the House as to what measures are being taken to contain this spill, clean up the damage and compensate those who have suffered, and what action is being taken against the offending ship?


Mr. Speaker, it would be a long list. A number of experts from several departments are in the area giving advice. Equipment is on its way or already operating on the beaches around Alert Bay. It is a serious accident and is being treated as such.
*
* *
[TranslationJ


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance.
Since the funds the Department of Manpower and Immigration has been provided with for the implementation of the Local Initiatives Program seem almost depleted, would the minister tell the House if he is willing to make additional credits available to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration so that he could be in a position to accept a larger number of projects in order to alleviate the unemployment problem?


Order. Once again, I am under the impression that this question has been asked almost every day this week. However, if the minister is willing to answer it, I will recognize him.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker,-


The hon. member for Bellechasse is rising on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, it is precisely because the problem is most serious that this matter is so often brought back for consideration. I am very serious when I ask this question and I think the Minister of Finance is quite willing to answer even if it is only to give us a little hope.


The Chair gave the Minister of Finance leave to answer that question a while ago. I do not object to the minister answering it but he himself has not deemed proper to do it. If he is willing to do so now he may have the floor.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I am always ready to answer questions asked by my friend the hon. member for Bellechasse and as always I shall very seriously consider his representations.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. Would the minister tell the House whether, in light of the recent statistics indicating an increase in the wholesale price index, he has had any conversations with the governor of the Bank of Canada with regard to changing the money supply?


No, Sir.


Does the minister intend to have such conversations?


Mr. Speaker, I meet the governor once a week.


Is it the position of the government that the rate of increase in the money supply has an effect on the rate of inflation in this country?


Mr. Speaker, the rate of increase in the money supply in the early part of the year, as the hon. gentleman knows, was quite high. The recent rate of increase will bring the rate for the year 1972 somewhere between 12 and 14 per cent.
* *
*
[Translation)


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Finance.
Can he give the House, as did his colleague the Minister of National Health and Welfare, the assurance that a substantial increase will be announced shortly in respect of old age pensions?
Hon. John N. Turner (Minister of Finance) Mr. Speaker, I always support my colleagues.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary.


The hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe will recognize that the question has already been asked. The Chair objected to it yesterday or the day before because the question anticipates a bill to be presented to the House in due course. In that sense the question is out of order. If the hon. member wishes to put a supplementary, he may do so.
25714-44S

January 26, 1973
Oral Questions


Thank you, Mr. Speaker.
Is the Minister of Finance aware of rumours reported this morning by Mr. Claude Lemelin in the newspaper Le Devoir that there is dissension in the preparation of his budget?


The hon. member knows he cannot ask a minister whether he is aware of a report that may have been published in a newspaper. In those terms the question is out of order.


Mr. Speaker, I have one or two questions for the Secretary of State for External Affairs having to do with the dispatch of Canadian personnel as part of the international control and supervisory commission under the Viet Nam peace agreement. In view of the fact that Article 18 of the main agreement specifically states that the international commission of control and supervision shall be composed of representatives of four countries and then names them-Canada, Hungary, Indonesia and Poland-and in view of the fact it is rather hard to imagine that those countries would be named in the agreement without their consent, I would ask the minister whether Canada was approached for its consent and, if so, by whom, and was consent given to Canada being named in the main agreement as one of the four countries to participate in the commission?


Mr. Speaker, as I have explained to the House previously, it was intimated to us that we might be called upon to be a member of the commission. We did not at that time give our agreement. We have taken the attitude, which I have explained many times in the House, that whether we were participants would depend upon the terms of the agreement and upon the terms of the protocol under which the supervisory commission would operate. We have received invitations from all four parties to the cease-fire agreement to participate. We have notified each of them of the announcement I made in the House of Commons and of the terms upon which we are prepared to participate.


Mr. Speaker, there are one or two brief supplementary questions I should like to ask. Do I understand from the minister that Canada did not agree at the time it had an intimation and that despite Canada's failure to agree the parties to the agreement stated categorically that the commission shall consist of representatives of certain countries, including Canada? Is the minister telling us that the parties to the agreement included Canada despite Canada's failure to agree?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, that is the situation. The parties to the agreement did include Canada notwithstanding the reservations I had expressed on behalf of the government. All four parties, not just the United States,
[Mr. Speaker, j
are apparently very anxious that Canada should be a member. They knew of our reservations and conditions, and I have expressed them in this House and elsewhere and conveyed them to all the parties. Notwithstanding that, Canada was included. We have made a decision subsequently, of course, that if the agreements are signed in their present form we will participate for an initial period of 60 days.


Mr. Speaker, I have one more supplementary question which follows clearly on what the minister has just said. The minister has informed the House on a number of occasions that Canada's agreement to be a member of the commission now is for a trial period of 60 days. May I ask him how that can be consonant with the provision in the agreement for the international control and supervisory commission that a member of the international commission may withdraw by giving three months' notice by means of a note to the four parties and I take that from Article 17 of the Agreement.


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member that that is argument or debate.


Oh, no!


The hon. member may disagree, but this is my opinion. The hon. member wants the minister to explain how one situation can be reconciled with another, how one is consonant with another. That is not seeking information; that is debate.


I appreciate your comment, Mr. Speaker. Perhaps I might be permitted to rephrase my question? In view of the provision in Article 17 of the protocol dealing with the international commission that a member of the commission can withdraw only by giving three months' notice, has the government an assurance from the parties to the agreement in Viet Nam that they accept our 60 day notice rather than three month's notice?


Mr. Speaker, we have had no intimation from any of the parties to the agreement or any of the other proposed members of the commission that we would be unacceptable for a period of 60 days. To be quite clear about this, as soon as the agreements are signed in Paris I shall be sending a note confirming this in writing so that there is no possibility of any confusion.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. In view of the AP dispatch from Cyprus to the effect that a civil war may break out on that island momentarily, and as Canada has a peacekeeping force on that island of some 600 men, would the minister advise the House what reports he has received from the commander of the Canadian force in Cyprus on that matter and what instructions he has given his commander to be followed in case civil war does actually break out?
January 26, 1973


Mr. Speaker, we have had reports of some disturbances in Cyprus, but our information is that they are of the order of student demonstrations and are perhaps related to the forthcoming general election. They are not disputes between the Turkish and Greek Cypriots. They are disputes between two factions of Greeks. Therefore it is really more a matter for the police in Cyprus and not part of our peacekeeping role.


Has the
Canadian government a contingency plan to be followed by the supervisory force which will be leaving shortly for Viet Nam in the eventuality of a civil war in that country breaking out after the cease-fire commences, particularly after American forces have been completely evacuated from Viet Nam? If so, would the minister advise the House what that contingency plan is?
Hon. James Richardson (Minister of National Defence)
Yes, Mr. Speaker. We have given very serious consideration to the safety of our personnel, and in the event of hostilities being renewed we have not one but more than one contingency plan which would enable us to evacuate all Canadian personnel from Viet Nam.


Mr. Eldon M. Woolliams (Calgary North) Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Solicitor General. Earlier in the week'I asked him about the commutation of sentences of people who were charged and convicted of the murder of police officers. I have a list of 12 commutations by order in council since January 4, 1968. I should like to ask the Solicitor General-this is a serious question which might affect the length of the debate on capital punishment-whether there is anyone now incarcerated in any institution in Canada for whom all the processes of law have been completed and who stands convicted of capital murder at the present time?
There are two cases of people who have killed either a policeman or a prison guard and who have been convicted, but appeals are still open to them and they have not yet approached the Solicitor General or the cabinet for commutation.


Mr. Speaker, I think I know the answer to my question, but I want to make this clear. After all due processes of the law have been completed-when I say "due processes of law" I mean the trial, the court of appeal of the province, the Supreme Court of Canada, or any other proceedings whereby a man might get a new trial-is there anybody now incarcerated in an institution for whom all the procedures have been completed, and
Oral Questions
who is now subject to capital punishment, because this might affect the length of the debate itself?


Order, please. I suggest to the hon. member and to the minister that we are anticipating a debate. The hon. member has said that the answer to this question might have an effect on the length of the debate, but we have not yet reached that stage. I gather that there will be such a debate later today. The question might be asked when the minister has the floor later this morning, but having allowed him to reply to the first question perhaps he might reply to the supplementary.


To the best of my knowledge, Mr. Speaker, there are no people in that category, but I will check it to make sure.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. In light of the fact that since January 4, 1968, we have had complete abolition of capital punishment, de facto if not de jure, why is this bill now before the House of Commons and not some other bill affecting the economy of the country?


Order, please. The hon. member for Kingston and The Islands.


Miss Flora MacDonald (Kingston and The Islands) Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the right hon. Prime Minister. In light of the great concern of Canadians and the clearly defined constitutional responsibilities of the federal government, which bind the government to protecting the Indian people, can the Prime Minister tell the House when the government will present a statement to the interlocutory injunction hearings on the James Bay hydro project, outlining the government's position on the rights of Northern Quebec Indians?
Right Hon. P. E. Trudeau (Prime Minister) Mr. Speaker, this has been stated by the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, and I believe that the Minister of Justice has also indicated that we had representatives present at those hearings. I know of no statement to be made by the government.
Miss MacDonald (Kingston and The Islands) Am I to
understand then that it is the policy of the government not to declare any formal position with regard to the rights of the native people affected by the James Bay development project?
Hon. Otto E. Lang (Minister of Justice) Mr. Speaker, I think it would not be appropriate in any case for us in this House to comment at this point upon the proceedings which are occurring in a court.
What are you going to do?

January 26, 1973
Oral Questions


We are, in fact, not involved directly in the proceedings. The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development has, of course, a very close working relationship with the people whose rights are involved, and they know where he stands on that issue.


Mr. Speaker, I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Justice. Is the government aware of the resolution of the National Indian Brotherhood and its member organizations which supports the Indians of Quebec Association in their quest for a clear government statement and, if so, when will the minister be making such a statement in response?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to refer the hon. member to some of the very clear statements the Minister of Indian Affairs has made.


Come off it!


I will be glad, since some of them-


Name one.


-appear in Hansard and were made before the hon. member was elected to the House, to ask the department to send copies of some of them to her.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary for the right hon. Prime Minister.
Can he assure the House that he is giving full consideration to the importance of this project and that the province of Quebec may be assured of the government's taking into account its rights and its legal capacity to carry on with the project?


Mr. Speaker, the substance of the statements to which the Minister of Justice has just referred is that we did not want to be paternalistic in that area. The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development has always assisted the Indians and has never attempted to dictate his own policy. That is still the attitude to which the minister referred. I shall add that our position is the same as concerns Quebec: we do not want to be paternalistic in our relations with this province.
[EnglishJ


Mr. Erik Nielsen (Yukon) Mr. Speaker, I direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Since there has been no clearcut statement by the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development or anyone else in the government with respect to the aboriginal rights of the Indian people, and having in mind the urgency of the matter and the imminence of the Mackenzie Valley pipeline that has been referred by the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, will the government come out now, on the threshold of possible future legal proceedings, and declare in favour of some aboriginal title and land rights for the Indian people of these areas?
[Mr. Hees.1
Right Hon. P. E. Trudeau (Prime Minister) Mr. Speaker, if I might disagree with the premise of the question, there has, of course, been a very clear statement by the government on the question of aboriginal rights. It was made in the House of Commons at the time of the publication of the policy paper on Indian affairs, and it was wholeheartedly supported by the spokesman for the Conservative party and the speaker on behalf of the NDP at the time.
Rubbish.


If the hon. member looks it up in Hansard he will see that the rubbish is all in his own mind.


Order, please. A number of hon. members are seeking to ask supplementaries but we will soon be running short of time. Unless we go to another subject we will again find ourselves covering only four or five subjects during the whole question period, and again those who suffer will be our hon. friends in the fourth and fifth rows to my left. I wish we could agree to give them a chance occasionally.
Mr. W. B. Nesbitt (Oxford) Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a very brief supplementary to the Minister of Transport. In view of the minister's responsibilities under the Navigable Waters Protection Act, can he tell us how many licences have been issued under that act for the construction of bridges and other projects in relation to the James Bay development?


Order, please. The hon. member knows that a question such as this one should be placed on the order paper.


Mr. Thomas S. Barnett (Comox-Alberni) Mr. Speaker, I would like to address a question either to the Prime Minister or the Minister of Justice which neither the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development nor any other minister has answered in previous sessions. Has the government of Canada asked the government of Quebec to comply with the terms of the agreement under which these territories were transferred to the jurisdiction of that province?
Mr. Len Marchand (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development) Mr. Speaker, I would like to take that question as notice. I have been pulling a number of the ends together on this whole question in the last few days. I had a meeting with some of the Indian people from the James Bay area and members of the Quebec Indian Association a few days ago. I agree with the hon. member that is a very serious question. The Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development, although he is now in hospital recuperating, is giving this matter his most serious attention.
January 26, 1973
Mr. Gerard Laprise (Abitibi) Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources.
May I ask the minister whether studies have been or are being made with a view to developing the natural gas deposits that were found last year on Melville and King Christian Islands, and also whether a survey has been made of the route to be followed by the pipeline to bring this natural gas down to the consumer market?
Hon. Donald S. Macdonald (Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources) Mr. Speaker, the companies concerned, Panarctic Oil and Tenneco, are now involved in a study on the viability of such a pipeline from northern to central Canada. At this stage, the government has not commissioned any studies on this matter, but we are looking forward to the results of the studies made by the companies involved.
Mr. Tom Bell (Saint John-Lancaster) Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Transport of which I gave him notice sometime ago. Has the minister had a chance to check into equalization of Canadian National rail rates at Halifax compared with Canadian Pacific rates at Saint John in connection with the recent car import contract? Can he say whether there is any government subsidy involved, and also can he say that the rates are compensatory?
Hon. Jean Marchand (Minister of Transport) Mr. Speaker, as far as I can remember the hon. member talked to me or wrote to me about Volkswagen changing its location from Saint John to Halifax. I do not think this has anything to do with the freight rates. I think it has something to do with the space that can be offered to Volkswagen at Saint John. Apparently the National Harbours Board was not in a position to supply the land required by Volkswagen. They signed a two-year contract and I assume that after that they will reconsider their position if the land is available at Saint John.
I appreciate the detailed answer the minister gave. Will he assure the House that the National Harbours Board will continue to play a big part in the port of Saint John and not downgrade the port, because that may now happen in the opinion of many people?


Order, please. That is a representation.
Oral Questions CANADIAN COASTGUARD


Mr. Robert Muir (Cape Breton-The Sydneys) Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. May I ask the minister whether officials of his department have been negotiating or are at present negotiating for the purchase of property in Ottawa with the ultimate end in mind of transferring a portion or all of the Canadian Coastguard College operation from Cape Breton to Ottawa? If the minister does not have that information on hand at the moment, will he give the assurance that he will report back to the House as soon as possible in a full and comprehensive way as to the future of the Canadian Coastguard College?
Mr. Speaker, I will have to inquire into this matter; I will report to the House.


Since, despite our great efforts, we were unable to get a definitive reply from the minister's predecessor, may I ask him to give this matter priority in order to allay fears that Cape Breton is to lose the Canadian Coastguard College, as so many other institutions have been taken by this government from that area?


Order, please. Again, that is a representation to the minister.
*	* it!


Mr. Lome Nystrom (Yorkton-Melville) Mr. Speaker, my question is for the minister responsible for the Wheat Board. Can the minister say whether there will be a final payment to farmers on wheat for the 1971-72 crop year? If so, when will this payment be made to the farmers?
Hon. Otto E. Lang (Minister of Justice) Yes, Mr. Speaker, there will be a final payment. The Wheat Board has advised me that it expects the payment to be made in the near future.
Mr. James A. McGrath (St. John's East) Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Defence, notice of which has been given to him. May I ask the minister what steps he has taken to ensure adequate search and rescue capabilities off the east coast of Canada in view of the very serious incident that took place recently when it took ten hours to evacuate the crew of a stranded Canadian trawler only a very short distance from the coast of Newfoundland because there were no helicopters based there?
January 26, 1973
Oral Questions
Mr. Speaker, I have been discussing search and rescue with my hon. friend and I know his interest in having a maximum presence of search and rescue forces in Newfoundland. This force, of course, is stationed at Sheer-water and Summerside. It is concentrated there for operational reasons and to reduce the cost of the search and rescue operations. We are, however, looking at the possibility of decentralizing it somewhat and increasing our capability in Newfoundland.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Fisheries. May I ask the minister what he is doing in line with the undertaking he gave in Newfoundland to increase the capability of fisheries patrol vessels and to acquire new vessels to provide that kind of assistance in the event of accidents at sea?
Hon. Jack Davis (Minister of Fisheries) Mr. Speaker, we are building new vessels. We are also exploring the possibility of contracting with fishermen who own vessels of the appropriate kind to help us in our protection activities.


Mr. J. M. Forrestall (Dartmouth-Halifax East) I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, to which the Minister of National Defence or the Prime Minister might respond. Has any consideration been given by the government to assigning the total responsibility for search and rescue to either the Department of Transport or the Department of National Defence? I ask this question because of the difficulty referred to today and difficulties with respect to effective search and rescue operations during the past few years.
Mr. Speaker, the matter was considered by the government and as a result we decided to establish a co-ordinating body which would ensure that these forces would work together. I understand that this is operating well.


Mr. T. C. Douglas (Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands)
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources and arises out of a statement he made during a panel discussion in Toronto recently to the effect that a national gas pipeline along the Mackenzie River Valley would be essential to meet Canadian needs rather than United States needs. In light of that statement, may I ask the minister what proportion of the initial pipeline capacity will be dedicated to Canadian needs?
Hon. Donald S. Macdonald (Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources) Mr. Speaker, I think we will have to wait until there is an application from the companies to see

that. The intention would be in the early stages to have a substantial portion of the capacity devoted probably to the transit of Alaskan gas through to the central American market. Of course, the reserves available in the Mackenzie Delta would not be available to Canadian markets without the construction of a pipeline. So at the initial stage no doubt Alaskan gas will form a large part of the throughput, but as Canadian demand rises, as we expect it will, to meet the level of the pipeline Canadian gas will form a larger portion. Without such a pipeline Canadian needs in the future cannot be met.
In view of the statement by W. P. Wilder, chairman of Canadian Arctic Gas Study Company, at the same panel discussion that initially a substantial volume of the gas to be delivered must be dedicated to the American market and that only an excess of capacity would be dedicated to Canadian needs, may I ask the minister whether this means that the main volume of the initial pipeline will be dedicated to American needs and only if the pipeline is twinned will substantial quantities of gas be dedicated to Canadian needs?
Mr. Macdonald (Rosedale) Mr. Speaker, the applicant may have whatever ambitions he wishes, but as far as the government is concerned the primary purpose of the pipeline will be to provide access to Mackenzie Delta resources for Canadian purposes. As I just said, it is expected that in the early years, since the throughput of the pipeline will exceed by about one billion cubic feet per day current demands of the Canadian market, it will be American gas that will be going through. The requirement will be, however-


Order, please. The hon. member for Wellington.


Mr. A. D. Hales (Wellington) Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General. Has he or any member of his department given approval, or have they considered giving approval, to prisoners who have worked on prison buildings or on similar construction being placed under the unemployment insurance scheme?
Hon. Warren Allmand (Solicitor General) Mr. Speaker, I have not heard about such a proposal but I will investigate it and report to the hon. member as soon as possible.
Mr. Joe Clark (Rocky Mountain) Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Would the minister indicate what action the government is
January 26, 1973
taking to help prevent the shutdown of coal mining operations at Canmore, Alberta, and the consequent unemployment of Alberta miners there?
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his courtesy in indicating his intention to ask this question. We have sent by Telex today a message to the company requesting them to give us full details of their negotiations with their Japanese customer. This is the problem at the root here. We have also asked for indications of the employment implications of this action. I have also spoken to the Alberta Minister of Mines and Minerals and we have agreed on the necessity of an early meeting. Because of the situation of some of the other Rocky Mountain producers we are contemplating a meeting of the ministers affected and all the producers. We are very concerned about the attitude of the Japanese market toward these contracts.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. The hon. member seeks a supplementary. We have reached the end of the question period. I was trying, before calling orders of the day, to give an opportunity to some hon. members in the fourth and fifth rows to ask questions.


Mr. Bill Clarke (Vancouver Quadra^ Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of National Defence a question concerning what are known as the Jericho defence lands in Vancouver. Is it a fact that the government is preparing to call for tenders in connection with the disposal of the portion of these lands commonly referred to as the remaining 38 acres north of Fourth Avenue?
Order, please. I have some doubt whether this question can properly be asked at this time. However, if the minister can reply briefly he may do so, and I will then recognize the hon. member for Leeds.


Mr. Speaker, this is a subject that has been before us for several years.


Ten.


There is an agreement in existence between the government and the city of Vancouver. My predecessor has indicated that if the city wishes to reopen this agreement we would certainly be prepared to do so and to listen to representations.
Oral Questions EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In substance it is like a question I put down on the order paper a few weeks ago and which has remained unanswered. I believe it should be asked orally now since the matter was referred to in the course of a CBC television program last night. In view of the fact that Ronald Patrick Lippert, a Canadian citizen of Kitchener, Ontario, has now completed ten years of a 30-year sentence and is now eligible for parole under Cuban law, has the government made representations to Cuba on his behalf, is the minister aware of the state of Mr. Lippert's health, and can we be told when he was last seen by a Canadian government representative?


Mr. Speaker, the Department of External Affairs and our embassy in Havana are in touch regularly with Mr. Lippert, members of his family and other persons who are interested in him. An officer of our embassy in Havana visited Mr. Lippert early in December and found him well and in good spirits. Another visit was planned for the end of December, and I believe it has taken place.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice and it arises from an answer he gave in the House last week concerning the government's intention not to seek a reference at this time to the Supreme Court of Canada with respect to jurisdiction over environmental matters. Could the minister inform us whether he has consulted with his provincial counterpart on this subject since last week? Could he also inform us specifically what steps will be taken to prevent a vacuum from developing in this very important field?


The discussion I had with the Attorney General for Ontario took place shortly before I last gave an answer to this question. He has the matter under consideration. I would expect that if he felt we ought to take any further action at this point we would hear from him again on the subject.


A supplementary-


Order, please. Perhaps that would be the easiest way out. I will allow the hon. member's supplementary and then call orders of the day. I had hoped to recognize a few more members, but the hon. member may ask a supplementary and I will then call orders of the day.


My
supplementary is to the Minister of the Environment. Can

January 26, 1973
Capital Punishment
the minister inform us whether in his forthcoming meeting with his provincial counterpart in Ontario this subject will be among those on the agenda?


I am
meeting with the minister of the environment of Ontario this afternoon in my office. If there is any vacuum to be filled, I hope he will have some suggestions as to how the province can fill it.


Orders of the day.


that Bill C-2, to amend the Criminal Code, be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs.
He said: Mr. Speaker, in 1966 and 1967 when I spoke and voted in this House for the five-year partial ban on capital punishment, I did not for one moment think that five years later I would have the responsibility of introducing the bill that would propose the continuation of that partial ban. I must say that five years ago I found this a most agonizing question, and that feeling has not changed today. It is agonizing because we so much want to protect the public from murder and violence; because we so much appreciate the feelings of those who cry out for a peaceful and just society and who abhor the violent crimes which have taken place. On the other hand, we find the practice of capital punishment just as abhorrent: the deliberate killing of a man by hanging him with a rope. If I could see how capital punishment could in any way give the public the protection it really wants, then I would certainly reconsider my present position. So far, however, I have seen no evidence or heard no argument to convince me of that position and I think we only delude ourselves if we believe we are doing something to protect the public by returning to capital punishment.
To participate in the governing of a country, Mr. Speaker, involves the exercise of human judgment to bring about desired change. All hon. members in this chamber are well aware of the need for prudence when such decisions are made. Even the smallest decision by government can ultimately impose either the greatest hardship or the greatest benefit on the citizens we serve. Therefore our deliberations are necessarily long and our differences sometimes profound. But in all things we share a unity of purpose. As members of parliament we hope to contribute to the development of society in such a way as to reinforce its virtues and diminish its injustices. However, that process is not as easy as it sounds since the calculation of virtue and vice in the short and long term without error defies human judgment. The natural consequence of

human fallibility is experiment, designed to test new circumstances without wholeheartedly committing oneself to that novel direction. In that sense, Mr. Speaker, the past ten years have been experiments with respect to capital punishment. Indeed, we still find ourselves in the trial period which commenced when members of this House began to wonder whether the practice of capital punishment had any continued relevance in our society. We are a party to that debate which commenced when Canada's first recorded execution occurred in the late eighteenth century. At that time a sixteen-year-old girl was hanged for petty theft.
The very purpose of the criminal law stems from a desire to provide a means of protection for the public against the few who do not respect the rights of others. That still remains a fundamental purpose of the law to which this government and the Solicitor General's ministry remains committed. Fortunately, however, the intent of the law can now be fulfilled by diverse means not requiring the ruthless measures of earlier times when mutilation and torture seemed acceptable means of assuring the safety of the public. We have moved more and more from what I would call punitive deterrents to preventive deterrents.
In recent years we have witnessed several legislative and administrative acts which have contributed to the improving security of Canadians. Crime prevention has become as important a concept for modern police work as apprehension. The best deterrent to murder or any other crime is the certainty of detection and conviction. Consequently, effective police surveillance, pursuit and follow-through are paramount.
The RCMP, which is our responsibility, has led the way in prevention-oriented police activities. One of these concepts, called "Prevention-Oriented Policing Services" has been designed to facilitate the optimum distribution of manpower resources with a view to discouraging crime. It specifically recognizes the growing need of the public for a police presence on a constant, rather than a sporadic basis. Such a program accents the vital importance of such crucial police functions as police/community relations, regular police patrols, objective long-range planning and all other related elements generally regarded as being conducive to sound crime prevention strategies. These methods are increasingly effective when linked with improved research into the causes of crime in society.
The Solicitor General's ministry is taking a more active role in linking together the operational aspects of police work with basic research and broadly-based analysis. To this end, the security planning and research group in the Solicitor General's department has now broadened its responsibilities to include the analysis of criminal activities and criminal trends in Canadian society and has been renamed the "Police and Security Planning and Analysis Group". In recent years, the RCMP has also devoted considerable time and energies to improving communications with all other police forces in Canada, and has continued to contribute to the success of Interpol.
January 26, 1973

In summary, Mr. Speaker, the RCMP, through its constantly improving crime detection and crime prevention programs, has set standards for police work which seek for the public the protection it so rightly deserves. This House has passed a variety of legislation in recent years which has also provided the public with a great measure of personal security. The omnibus justice bill of 1968 provided for increased gun control, which according to the Police Chiefs Association of Canada rendered their work easier. New programs have come into effect since January 1 which will provide compensation to victims of violent crime. Two agreements have been signed by my colleague the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lang, with the provinces of British Columbia and New Brunswick to this end.
Furthermore, the Department of Justice has been active in negotiating legal aid schemes with the provinces which will help to assure that all citizens have access to legal assistance. Protection of the public, therefore, is a multidimensional concept involving police activities designed to deter and detect crime; analysis of new trends in crime; determination of the law's responsiveness to new forms of crime; assurance that the public can be compensated for injury as a result of criminal activity; and the availability of legal assistance when a citizen is confronted with legal proceedings.
I have referred to these matters because some have charged that our only concern is with the criminal. Some say we have no concern for the protection of the public or the victims of the crime. This is not so. As I have pointed out, our principal concern is with the protection of the public. That is the principal purpose of the criminal law. I also pointed out that we are continually improving the criminal law, our police forces, the prosecution of the law and we have programs to reimburse the victims of crime.
In recent years we have had three very distinct laws relating to the use of capital punishment. Prior to 1961, all murder was considered as capital, and the only penalty for that crime was capital punishment. During that period of time, many countries were re-assessing the usefulness and humanity of executions, and indeed there were many nations which were in the process of finally abolishing the death penalty. The same debate was taking place in Canada. Although the special committee of the House on capital punishment, which met between 1954 and 1956, did not recommend the abolition of the death penalty, the committee heard a wide variety of conflicting evidence which represented the divided opinion of the public and parliamentarians.
In 1961, the law was further amended to provide for capital and non-capital murder, and the punishment for non-capital murder was life in prison. This legislation provided that murder was to be considered capital if it was planned and deliberate on the part of the murderer and was committed by the murderer's own act. Additionally, the murder of a police or prison official was also considered a capital offence, and the penalty was death.
As a result of further debate in the country and in parliament in 1966 and 1967, a five-year period was established during which capital murder was limited to ca