Fourth report of Standing Committee on Veterans Affairs, in both official languages-Mr. Boulanger.
[Editor's Note: For text of above report, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question or two to the Prime Minister relating to certain matters that were not clarified by the budget address last evening. The first relates to the tax status enjoyed by Time magazine and Reader's Digest. Is it the decision of the government to continue with the present status?


Obviously if nothing was said in the budget, nothing is contemplated at this time. This does not preclude any further action.


Mr. Speaker, am I to understand what the Prime Minister is saying is that no decision has yet been taken. If that is the situation indicated by the Prime Minister, when may we expect a decision since the general impression has been created that perhaps the situation would have been covered in the course of the budget.


Mr. Speaker, we cannot be responsible for that general impression the Leader of the Opposition has gleaned from God knows where, but so far as the first part of the question is concerned, that is right; no decision has been taken and the matter is still before cabinet.


The Leader of the Opposition on a final supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, there is another matter of some obscurity relating to the remarks made by the minister with regard to the size of the public service, the minister having said he would place limits on the growth of the public service. I should like to ask the Prime Minister precisely what that means. Does it mean there is to be a pause in the recruitment of the public service and that it will be held to its present size? Has any decision been taken of a precise nature or was this simply a generalization which the minister does not ordinarily use?


Mr. Speaker, so far as the statement is meant to have effect, I suppose it will be judged only by the effect it does have in due course. I can only emphasize that the minister's statement was a serious one and the opposition and the country will have to judge us on our ability to administer it.


MINIMUM SAVING FOR TAXPAYERS IN 1974 and 1975 AS A RESULT OF BUDGET CHANGES
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. I wonder whether the minister would be good enough to clarify some confusion which exists in the minds of a number of people as a result of last night's budget, namely, that the minimum saving which will occur as a result of this budget for the 1974 taxation year for Canadians is in fact $50 and not as has been reported by a number of people $150?


Mr. Speaker, for 1974 it will be $150 and for 1975 it will be $200. Obviously, in terms of the deductibility tables this will not be implemented until the deductibility tables are changed early in January.


The minister has not clarified but rather has further confused the situation. Will he correct me if I am wrong that the $100 minimum deduction was passed in the 1973 budget and all that the minister is adding in the current budget is a $50 reduction for 1974?


No, Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman is perfectly right with regard to the February, 1973 budget. There was a five per cent reduction, a minimum of $100 and a maximum of $500. In the May 6 budget, the minimum was proposed to be raised to $150 for 1974. That was implemented last night in the ways and

November 19, 1974
Oral Questions
means motion. In addition, for 1975 the minimum will be raised to $200 and the maximum raised to $750.


The minister has acknowledged that there is only a $50 reduction in addition to what was proposed in the 1973 budget.


Oh, oh.


I would like him to clarify that for 1975, in contrast to what has been suggested by a number of people, the real minimal saving in terms of those who are paying taxes in 1975 is simply an additional $50 over what they will get in 1974. I would like to hear the minister's opinion on this also since he did not document what he expected in the form of inflation. Given the rate of inflation which will inevitably take place, that $50 inevitably will be eaten away by inflationary pressures. Is that the minister's opinion?


The hon. gentleman is engaging in a little game of semantics here. Certainly, he will recognize that the May 6 budget was defeated largely as a result of the efforts of the hon. gentleman and his friends.


Hear, hear!


When I entered the House last night, the minimum tax reduction, as the hon. gentleman states, was $100. I reinstated at one stroke the $50 which would have been implemented had the hon. gentleman passed the May 6 budget, plus another $50, for a minimum of $200. Two thirds of that tax reduction will apply to taxpayers at $12,000 or less.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Finance.
Can he say if the chartered banks will soon reduce their prime rate now that the Bank of Canada has decreed the V2 per cent reduction last week?


Mr. Speaker, it behooves the chartered banks to react as they want about the rate reduction prescribed by the Bank of Canada and so we have to wait.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary.
Has the minister met the Canadian Bankers Association to ask them to do their share by lowering the prime rate with a view to stimulating the Canadian economy which is something the minister seems to hope?


I imagine the banks will follow the market, Mr. Speaker. I have always told the chairmen of the nine or ten Canadian chartered banks that priority must be given first of all to the economically

weak regions, as well as to the small contractors, farmers, fishermen and independent businessmen in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I have another
supplementary.
The minister still has not told us whether the Canadian Bankers Association agrees with stimulating the Canadian economy through lower interest rates?


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. I should like to have a clarification of the policy with regard to beef. On many occasions in the past the Minister of Finance has indicated that the way to beat inflation is to stimulate and increase production in various phases of the Canadian economy. In view of the events announced in the United States a couple of days ago with regard to beef and in view of the fact that it appears now that beef production is being reduced by the producers, could the Prime Minister inform the House what the government policy is in fact with regard to beef production specifically? Is it to stimulate greater production of beef or to ask farmers to cut back production of beef?


Mr. Speaker, over the long haul we do want to increase supply but as the hon. member realizes there are specific points in time over this long haul where the supply cannot be disposed of, such as the examples we saw earlier this winter. As far as the question of the United States action is concerned, the government decided to send a note to the United States which has been sent to them this morning.


Not by mail, I hope.


No, Mr. Speaker, it is being presented to them in the usual manner.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In light of allegations that the Canadian delegation played a leading part in wrecking a sugar agreement which would have provided sugar at 11 cents per pound, can the minister explain why sugar is now selling in Ottawa at about 70 cents a pound and is likely to go to more than a dollar per pound by next spring?


Mr. Speaker, there is absolutely no sub-

November 19, 1974

stance whatsoever to that allegation. The reason that it has not been possible to negotiate a new international sugar agreement is that the producing countries do not at the moment consider it in their interests to come to the negotiating table.


Mr. Speaker, the minister's counter charge could lead to debate as I certainly believe the facts to be different. I should like to direct a supplementary question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. Since Canada and Japan are the largest importers of free market sugar in the world, is the government at this time contemplating the formulation of a national sugar policy which would ensure that at least 25 per cent of the Canadian market would be filled by Canadian sugar beet producers?


Mr. Speaker, I will take the question in the form of a representation by the hon. member and will consider it.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and concerns the price of sugar which is being outrageously advanced without regard to anything except the profits of the refining organizations and the sugar corporations. May I ask whether the minister is able to inform the House how much sugar was on hand as of January 1 this year among these various refiners and how much of that sugar was still on hand on July 1? Does the minister have that information? If he has, I think it would indicate that what is happening is that the sugar companies are simply, with stock on hand, piling up additional costs to the Canadian taxpayers who are perfectly defenceless because of the fact that the Combines Investigation Act has never been used.


As a result of the question put by the right hon. member for Prince Albert (Mr. Diefenbaker), I got in touch with the refineries requesting information. I have received part of that information. I expect the second part of those details within the next few days. I shall be pleased to communicate them to the House as soon as I have received all pertinent information.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question and I thank the minister for his courtesy in advising the House that he has at least communicated with these people. When he receives a communication from them I hope he will investigate to see if it is as far removed from
Oral Questions
the truth as some of the defences the sugar companies have recently revealed in connection with prosecutions.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to remind the hon. member and all his colleagues that, each month, Statistics Canada makes public some information on the volume of sugar we have in reserve in Canada. He can therefore by himself and on his own initiative check the amounts, which are general and do not apply to specific refineries. I could have given him that information, but since the question is more precise and refers to the amounts of sugar of each refinery, a detail that is not made public by Statistics Canada, I have been forced to ask the refineries themselves. If they agree to give the information, I will be pleased to disclose it in the House.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Regional Expansion. As the regional cities price index released by Statistics Canada at one o'clock today, showed a dramatic increase in food prices at St. John's, Newfoundland, which are largely influenced by the increase in the price of sugar and other items, and as the 3.8 per cent increase in food prices in one month represents an annual increase of 20.8 per cent in food prices for St. John's, Newfoundland, may I ask the minister what steps he is taking to implement the recommendations of the Food Prices Review Board, bearing in mind especially that most food consumed in Newfoundland must be imported from the mainland.


Mr. Speaker, to the extent that this report comes under my responsibilities, I am of course as concerned as the hon. member, and I think this deserves further investigation and action. On the matter of transportation, which is one of the factors involved, I propose to consult with my colleagues, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. There are some studies under way already, and have been for some time, on the improvement of service. I point out that, at the moment, subsidies in excess of $50 million are paid on the gulf service alone. As to the more substantive part of the report, which I hope the provincial government has taken into account, the Food Prices Review Board has of course made strong comments about the distribution system on the island. I will be glad to talk to them about it and see if we can find some cooperative arrangement to improve it.

November 19, 1974
Oral Questions CONSUMER AFFAIRS


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs who answers in this House for the Food Prices Review Board. Has he examined the recommendations of the board on food prices in Newfoundland. Also, on the basis of his examination, is he now prepared to recommend to his cabinet colleagues measures for closing the disparity between prices for food charged in Newfoundland and in the rest of the country?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. In view of the manner in which the Minister of Finance dealt with natural resources last night, and bearing in mind the way his colleague has also dealt with the question of natural resources, will the Prime Minister take part in the important budget debate and explain in clear terms to the House and to the country why the government has decided to act as the architect of disunity in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, if it appears after that debate has begun and proceeded that some members like the hon. member still do not understand, not because of prejudice but because of inability, I might even invite the hon. member to lunch, and explain this to him.


But I understand very well.


We understand only too well. That's the trouble.


Mr. Speaker, may I address my question to the Minister of Finance in his capacity as minister and also in his capacity as the hon. member for Ottawa-Carleton. My question relates to a statement made in the budget speech to the effect that fiscal stimulus will come from something other than an increase in expenditures. May I relate that comment to the Public Service of Canada and ask the minister, both in his capacity as minister and as the member for Ottawa-Carleton, what are his plans for reducing the numbers serving in the Public Service of Canada. How big a reduction does he have in mind, as a member of parliament and as a

minister, in the size of the Public Service of Canada- because if the budget means anything, it suggests such reduction-and what methods does he intend to use to achieve the aims of the budget. Can he answer this question?


Order, please. Despite the importance of the question, I have some reservation about the hon. member's ability to pose a question to the minister in his capacity as the member for Ottawa-Carleton. The fact is that questions can only be addressed to the minister, and therefore only to the minister in his capacity as Minister of Finance and not in his capacity as the member of parliament representing his important constituency or any other. In addition, it appears to me, unless the minister wishes to answer the question at this time, that the question is of a kind which ought to be put on the order paper. However, if the minister wishes to answer, he may.


Mr. Speaker, since the hon. member would probably rather have an answer to his question, I prefer to answer at this time. I suggest that he has misread the budget speech. We were not talking about reductions in the Public Service. We were talking about restraints in the increase of expenditures.


Oh, oh!


And, restraints in the increase of expenditure will obviously involve some restraints on the increase or growth of the Public Service. The Prime Minister has indicated that will be determined as the government reconciles its priorities in its various government programs.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Finance. Has there been consultation and agreement with the Public Staff Association through the National Joint Council with the government with regard to the position the minister now indicates is the position of his government?


To begin with, Mr. Speaker, there was no need to negotiate something that was not in the mind of the government. We are not talking about reduction. The hon. member really would not expect me to negotiate that aspect of the budget.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State, I will direct my question to his parliamentary secretary. Is the government aware that the CBC does not plan to televise the final game in the Canadian Intercollegiate Athletic Union schedule between the University of Western Ontario and the Univer-
November 19, 1974

sity of Toronto this Friday evening, in spite of the fact that these finals have been televised for many years, and the CBC has exclusive telecasting rights which prevents any alternative arrangements?


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to make note of the question. I will refer it to the minister.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. It relates to the study he is making into possible assistance the federal government can give to the lumber industry. My question is twofold. When can we expect a statement in the House as to what the federal involvement will be? Has the minister discussed with his colleagues the possibility of making changes to the Bank Act to allow for government guarantees of loans made under Section 88? This would certainly be of immense help.


Mr. Speaker, I expect to be discussing a number of these questions with my colleagues this afternoon. As to when I might make a statement in the House, I can only estimate that it might be sometime next week.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Postmaster General of which I have already given him notice. It relates to payouts from the post office guaranty fund during the last fiscal year based on figures supplied to me by the department. A province by province breakdown of the losses caused by the most part because of conversion and postal employees indicates very wide variation and I want to ask the minister why, for example, losses in Newfoundland appear to be $25,000 while there are no losses indicated at all for PEI, Nova Scotia or New Brunswick. Also, why in the province of Quebec were there losses of nearly $70,000 while in the neighbouring province of Ontario, having an approximate comparable population and number of employees, there was a loss of only $6,000? Can the minister indicate why these conditions and inconsistencies exist and what he proposes to do?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member with his usual courtesy informed me several days ago that he intended to ask this question. I wish to answer it in two stages; one, orally and, two, with a written answer.
Oral Questions


Order, please. I have reservations about the extent of the question posed by the hon. member as to whether it is a proper question for the oral question period as opposed to the order paper. It seeks detailed information about comparative losses on operations in different provinces. It seems to be a proper question for the order paper. However, if the minister can answer in a brief preliminary way, he will be permitted to do so.


Mr. Speaker, there exists a guaranty fund that began in 1890 and ended in 1920. It was collected from postmasters in order to financially compensate for inefficiency or criminal action. This fund is still in existence. Last year there was a considerable loss in the province of Quebec. It was related to three specific instances, one a criminal action and the other two negligence or lack of collecting COD charges. I will follow with more specific written information.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
Considering the uncertainty and insecurity that prevail in the textile industry, particularly in Quebec, of which both the minister and the Prime Minister are well aware, does the minister intend to do something about the import quota policy, an area where his department has been slackening for some eight months, so that the quota of our industry, that increased from 35 to 50 per cent, be raised to 65 per cent and, finally, about at least the protective measures his predecessor brought forward in 1971 so that they be revewed for three more years?


Mr. Speaker, in answer to a question from an hon. member yesterday, I mentioned that I had referred eight or nine particular textile product groups to the Clothing and Textile Board for urgent examination in terms of the situation. I expect to receive their report in the near future at which time we will consider what quotas or other actions we should take.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question.
Does the minister intend to take steps, either alone or in co-operation with his colleague responsible for regional economic expansion, to help the textile industries which must recycle or transform their production and if so, could he tell the House where in the throne speech was there reference to that assistance to the textile industry, particularly in Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, I think the problems now affecting the textile industry are caused by a world situa-

November 19, 1974
Oral Questions
tion of over-supply, distress selling and a turn-down in the major markets for the producers of these products. This is the situation which has created difficulties for the Canadian textile industry. The Clothing and Textile Board will be examining this on an urgent basis.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of National Health and Welfare, may I direct my question to the Prime Minister. Now that the Minister of Finance has taken steps to improve the position of the 40 per cent of Canadians 65 years of age and over who have other income, what steps does the government propose to take to provide a meaningful improvement in the economic position of the 50 to 60 per cent of Canadians over 65 who rely exclusively on old age security and the guaranteed income supplement and who already pay no income tax?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member probably knows that the Minister of National Health and Welfare-


-is travelling again.


That shows how badly informed the opposition is. The minister is meeting with the provincial welfare ministers today to discuss the whole problem of a policy paper published a year and a half ago, I believe, on welfare in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that on more than one occasion the Minister of National Health and Welfare has said that from time to time there have to be adjustments in the basic rate of old age security, may I ask whether consideration is being given to increasing that basic rate during this session?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
Can the minister tell the House if, in accordance with the statements made lately by the representative of the Canadian government in Rome, his department will take steps to increase the efficiency of the Canadian agriculture in order to encourage the production of food and thus fight more effectively the problem of hunger in the world? Following those statements, when will the minister

announce these new long term measures and make the agriculture industry really efficient?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the hon. gentleman knows that most agriculture in Canada is profitable today, certainly more profitable than it has been for many years.


What about the beef producers?


There are some sectors of agriculture that may be suffering from a short term problem at the present time, but the intention of the government is to provide stabilization to agriculture. We said we would and we will.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Finance. Inasmuch as in the budget speech last night the minister made a good deal of the need for restraint in fighting inflation, is not the minister's position that the various segments of the Canadian economy should take the 15.6 per cent increase into their calculations in dealing with their negotiations and things of that sort?


Mr. Speaker, every sector will have to look at its own position. The message of the budget was that, all taken together, there are only limited resources in the economy, and that the consensus that we have built up should keep that in mind. The hon. gentleman will recognize that on the basis of the increased expenditures contemplated for the next fiscal year it is just slightly above the rise in the gross national product in normal terms.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Finance a supplementary question. The minister talks of a consensus among segments of the economy as to how to deal with the problem, but inasmuch as there is an enormous number of labour settlements coming up, I take it that the position of the government is that the 15.6 per cent increase in wage rates in these labour negotiations will be appropriate in terms of fighting the inflation battle?


Not at all, Mr. Speaker. I would hope that just as business should take into consideration in setting prices the additional cash flow given them by the budget last night, so working men and women will also take into account the additional money returned to them in terms of disposable income in the next fiscal year. If this is done, increases need not be anywhere near the range the hon. member suggests.
November 19, 1974


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that United Nations figures released at the world food conference in Rome indicate that the global demand for fresh water will increase by 240 per cent during the next five years, and in view of the fact that the government has no policy regarding the export of Canadian water, does the Prime Minister still hold to the view that: "I don't want to be a dog in the manger about this, but if people are not going to use it, can't we sell it for hard cash?"


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, last week there was made public the permutations and combinations of declarations of interest of ministers of the Crown vis-a-vis conflict of interest-frozen trusts, blind trusts, over declarations, everything, Mr. Speaker. In view of the reaction that the Prime Minister has obviously had to this confusing situation, will he, including himself and the rest of his ministers, not insist that an open declaration of their affairs, including assets and liabilities, be made and given to the Clerk of this House, thus levelling with the Canadian people?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member seems to be promoting his own brand of openness. The principles which guide the cabinet were set before the House. We would welcome discussion on them if the House wants so to discuss them, but they are the principles that thq cabinet is following.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Since traditionally this has not been a question for House discussion but a question of the leadership of the Prime Minister, will the Prime Minister resolve the matter in that way? What I do as a private member of parliament is different from what the Prime Minister decides for himself and his cabinet. Would the Prime Minister insist on this kind of procedure that I suggest?


Mr. Speaker, I have been prepared to give, and indeed do give, the kind of leadership that I thought best. The leadership that we are not following is that of the hon. member. Nor, indeed, are the rest of his colleagues following that leadership.


The hon. member may put a final supplementary


Has it not been made clear to the Prime Minister by many people in this country since the declarations were made last week that the Canadian people are not satisfied with blind trusts, frozen trusts and that sort of thing?
Oral Questions


No, Mr. Speaker, that has not been made clear. I have heard the hon. member voice that opinion but I have not seen general, overwhelming support for his opinion. Nor is this the case even among his own members in the Tory party.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Defence. In view of the increased emphasis on offshore resources, pollution off our coasts and a presence in the north, would the minister explain the rationale for the cutbacks in the operations of Maritime Command which have resulted in one flight every six months in the north, next to no effective coastal patrols, and no joint exercises with our NATO allies?


Mr. Speaker, I have before me figures for the last month. There were 15 Argus flights in October and 12 Tracker flights. This amounted to 150 hours for the Argus and 67 flying hours for the Tracker. We have carried out more flights than this in other months, but these facts confirm that the surveillance flights are being flown on a regular and continuing basis.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister assure the House that the figures he has just read out are flights for training, which has top priority to keep men in a training stance so they can learn; and can the minister confirm that there has not been a flight to the north or over the north, about which we talk so much, and that none is intended until after this fiscal year?
To conclude this supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, can the minister tell the House what we are not doing now that we did do before the financial restraints of the minister cut back operations?


Mr. Speaker, I think my previous answer indicated that the surveillance flights are continuing. Some of them are training flights, but there are flights over the Atlantic. Flights to the north have been curtailed and no date has been set for the next flight to the north.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question though it comes closer to a question of privilege. The minister knows that that answer is pure pap and that we are in serious trouble. My supplementary question to the minister arises out of a response given by the Minister of Finance, who has indicated to the House, by way of explanation of his remarks last night, that it was not the intention of government to cut back the numbers of people in the public service of Canada. I ask the Minister of National Defence

November 19, 1974
Oral Questions
whether he has a clear understanding from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister that that philosophy will apply to the Canadian Armed Forces and defence employees.


Mr. Speaker, I have explained to the House on earlier occasions that the numbers in the Canadian Armed Forces must be related to the tasks, and we are in the process of bringing the numbers and the tasks into balance.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister. In view of the announced intention of the government regarding the cutbacks and the avowed policy of the government to establish and retain Canada's sovereignty in Canada's north through the presence of armed forces personnel there, is it also the intention of the government to cut back on the existing armed forces' strength in the Yukon, which is now five to cover 207,000 square miles of Canada's sovereign territory?


No, Mr. Speaker. I would remind hon. members that the defence budget has not been cut; it has been increased by more than a quarter of a billion dollars this year over last year.


Mr. Speaker, my question refers to a matter I raised in the House a week ago obviously seeking either comment or information from the government, and regarding which I have received neither. My question relates to Mr. Charles Spatero, a convicted arsonist, with very obvious international criminal connections who, while on weekend leave from the Warkworth prison, a federal institution, crossed the border in a green Cadillac traceable by law enforcement agencies on both sides of the border to an international criminal figure. During the period Mr. Spatero was in Buffalo, he was even interviewed by a Toronto newspaper-


Question.


Order, please.


My question, Mr. Speaker-


Thank you.


-is to the Minister of Justice. Why was there a delay from June 15 to July 26 before the extradition papers were signed in the minister's department, and
[Mr. Forrestall.J
why was there a delay from July 26 to October 29 before these same extradition papers were received in the office of the law enforcement agency in Buffalo, New York?


Mr. Speaker, as I understand it from memory, the actual locating of this individual took place on July 4, and after that the proceedings to put the necessary material into flow began with the Crown prosecutor in the province of Ontario playing his part through the Department of Justice, the Department of External Affairs, the United States Consulate Office and so on. There was in this particular case some difficulty with the material in that some backup work had to take place which resulted in the lengthy time lapse.


Mr. Speaker, does the minister mean there was difficulty in the Department of Justice here in Ottawa in respect of the actual serving of the papers from July 26 to October 29?


Mr. Speaker, as I understand it, the problem in respect of the papers was actually between two arms of the United States government.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the projection last night by the Minister of Finance that 250,000 new jobs will be created next year as compared with over 400,000 jobs in each of the last two years, and in view of rapidly increasing unemployment in the United States, would the minister indicate what he and his advisers have estimated as the number of unemployed in the year 1975?


Mr. Speaker, I never make any prediction as to the rate of unemployment because of the number of variable factors that can play a role, including the inability to predict what the labour force will be, how many young people will leave or enter it and how many women will be part of it. As a result, I confined my prediction, as I have since holding my portfolio, to the number of new jobs and to the rate of growth.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the layoffs already announced by such industries as the labour industry, the textile industry and the auto industry, would the minister indicate what specific steps, if any, the government intends to take to deal with this accelerating problem of unemployment?


Mr. Speaker, that was the reason for the stimulus added to the economy last night.
November 19, 1974


Mr. Speaker, I want to put a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
Since the Minister of Justice said that wheat producers will see the price of their product increase, does the government intend to take the same measures to help beef producers?


Mr. Speaker, this is related to the initial prices paid to farmers in the west and has nothing to do with feed grain costs in the east.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question.
Could the minister tell the House if United States restrictions on Canada's beef exports to the US contravene the GATT trade agreements signed by the two countries?


We think so, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the right hon. Prime Minister in connection with the conflict of interest position that exempts spouses of ministers from any control and provides a very substantial period of time before ministers need register their arrangements. I should like to ask what the reason is for that time span and how he is going to overcome any suspicion that this would provide a minister with the opportunity of transferring embarrassing resources to his or her spouse.


Mr. Speaker, the time span is not part of the policy guidelines. In reality I think the guidelines should be implemented as soon as reasonably possible. In the case of some ministers, this really means immediately, and in other cases this means disposing of various forms of holdings, which very often cannot be done overnight and takes some time. I feel it is within my responsibility, and that of the ministers, to proceed with all due diligence in making sure that in the meantime there are in fact no conflict of interest situations which do arise.
As far as the spouse is concerned, Mr. Speaker, the guidelines do not include them directly. The intention is, of course, to ensure that the minister, whether the minis-
Oral Questions
ter be male or female, is fully responsible for any conflict which might arise through his or her spouse. The government quite frankly felt, and I would be interested to hear if the opposition has contrary views, that it was not in keeping with modern standards that the spouse be guided or obligated by whatever career his or her spouse has, and that the spouse should not be prevented from engaging in the pursuit of his or her choice.


Mr. Speaker, I will make it clear to the Prime Minister that I have the opposite view for the simple reason that the provision makes a complete farce of any regulations that have been developed.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Supply and Services.
Could he tell us when he intends to release those documents relating to United Aircraft of Canada Ltd. and the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce, and why they have not yet been released?


Mr. Speaker, I have been studying the matter of publishing United Aircraft of Canada Ltd. development contracts with my colleague, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Officials of my department have had talks with United Aircraft representatives with the specific aim to disclose publicly as many documents as possible. The result of that procedure is that we now have a great many documents which will require several days to be translated. Therefore I kindly ask the House to wait until we are ready to table every required document to meet the wishes of the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the minister's previous objection to removing the sales tax on building materials because in his mind the benefits would not accrue to purchasers, will the Minister of Finance tell the House what persuaded him to make a change of this kind and, if his original view still holds, has he made arrangements with his colleagues, the Minister of State for Urban Affairs and the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, to monitor the situation in respect of these price changes, and also the changes in respect of production machinery in the hands of those who produce mobile and prefabricated homes?
1446

November 19, 1974
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I have changed my mind about the tax because the economic situation changed. I held that view for two or three years because of the strong demand for housing as opposed to the inadequate supply, and that the removal of or a reduction in that tax would not have much effect on the price of housing. Now, the demand has slacked and there is an inadequate number of houses being built, so the economic force would come into play and that reduction in the cost represented by the tax cut would be reflected in lower prices. To insure that this is the case I have asked my colleague, the Minister of State for Urban Affairs, to conduct a monitoring of the results of that cut.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary for the Minister of Finance.
Since a recent inquiry clearly demonstrated that repealing the tax on clothing and footwear was of no avail to consumers, I should like to ask the minister how-


That is not true.


Mr. Speaker, I shall repeat my question to the Minister of Finance. May I ask the minister, considering that the tax on building materials dropped from 12 to 5 per cent, and considering there is no price control-


It is not true.


You need information.


Order.


The hon. member will understand that his role during the question period is not to make a speech but rather to ask a question. If we are to get around to as many members as possible it is simply impossible to accommodate this kind of preamble.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. How can the minister assure the House that the 7 per cent reduction of the tax on building materials will benefit consumers, taking into consideration the examples which I gave.


Mr. Speaker, I could not hear the preamble of the question, because there was confusion in the House as well as in the question asked by the hon. member. Anyhow, I can assure him that the reduction will be closely checked.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. Given the fact that the partial thrust of the

budget is to create something like 250,000 jobs, at the same time he made no mention of any policy to remove the disincentives. I would point out that the job vacancy rate is something like 20.2 per cent or some 130,000 job vacancies. Would it be fair to ask the minister whether he is attempting to add to the job vacancy rate as a result of this thrust without giving any direction or introducing any policy to remove the disincentives to work.


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In light of the fact that the job vacancy rate has risen to an unprecedented state in terms of 20.2 per cent or some 130,000 jobs outstanding for the past four weeks, does the minister not now believe he was a little premature in bringing about curtailment of immigration in light of the fact that many of these jobs will continue to be taken by the immigrant labour force?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member is indicating a complete misunderstanding of the regulations and changes we did make which, while curtailing the increase in the rate of immigration, still permit the expediting of people from abroad where that is the only avenue or only source for workers, Canadians having been considered as to availability willingness and competence for the jobs in the first place.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of privilege concerning the remarks made by the member for Joliette that consumers did not derive any benefit from the withdrawal of the tax on clothing and footwear. I can assure him that the work done by the officials of my department, far from disclosing-


Order!


Mr. Speaker, I see that the members opposite do not want to learn the facts.


Order.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. The hon. minister has the floor on a question of privilege. Until I hear what he has to say I am unable to decide, as is the case in respect of all hon. members in the House, whether it is a proper question of privilege.


I want to assure you, Mr. Speaker, that what should be revealed in this House are facts, not allegations. I think it is my duty to inform the House that this inquiry is going on. Until now there is no reason to
November 19, 1974

believe that this tax bears unjustly upon consumers. On the contrary, I can assure the hon. members that if this tax had not been removed, prices would likely be higher still by now.


The hon. member for Peace River,


Mr. Speaker, I hesitate to interrupt the question period, but Your Honour has clearly held, and properly, in respect of members on this side of the House that it is not a question of privilege for a member to stand up in the House and try to correct a statement made elsewhere. Your Honour has clearly ruled in this manner. The minister has violated the rules of the House. He knows better and should not be allowed to get away with it.


Order, please. I do not find myself in great difficulty in deciding on this question of privilege. However, if there are other members who wish to make a contribution I will be happy to hear them at this time. Without further contribution on that particular question of privilege, I have no difficulty in deciding that that is precisely the same kind of exercise in which members of the opposition have often engaged the House by suggesting they are unhappy with the content or quality of a statement made by a minister in reply. Similarly I do not think it is a question of privilege for someone on this side of the House to comment on the quality of a question from the other side.
Orders of the Day.


Mr. Speaker, I have a point of order which arises out of an answer of the Minister of Supply and Services a few moments ago. A week ago in the House I asked the Prime Minister if the government would provide all the documentary details concerning the contractual arrangements entered into between the government and United Aircraft pertaining to grants that company had received. At that time the Prime Minister had said that in principle he would be in agreement if the company agreed. Subsequent to that, on the next day in the House, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce confirmed that that would be done. Today in his answer, if I heard the Minister of Supply and Services correctly, he used the words "as many documents as possible", the implication being that all of them would not be provided. I wonder whether the minister, on this very important question, would take a minute to clarify the situation. Are we to get all the documents and contracts entered into between the government and United Aircraft or are some to be omitted?


I believe the hon. member has a very valid point of order to clarify what documents the minister proposes to table in view of the fact that it was the minister who indicated that he proposed to table some documents.


Mr. Speaker, I related my answer to the development contracts.


Mr. Speaker, with respect, may I say that that does not exactly clarify the situation. Is the
Oral Questions
minister saying that all the details pertaining to research and development contracts will be tabled or will some of those be omitted, or are all of them in that category?


Mr. Speaker, I intend to make public the main contracts and most of the attachments annexed. The only texts I do not intend to disclose are those related to technical problems and problems related to the engine itself, not the financial arrangements or the capacity of the corporation to hit external markets.


Orders of the day.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker.


The hon. member for Red Deer rises on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister referred to a note sent to Washington. I wonder if he would be prepared to table that note in today's Hansard as an appendix.


Order, please. The hon. member for Red Deer has the floor in this debate.


Mr. Speaker, I rose on a point of order.


With due respect to the hon. member, I heard his suggestion that he had a point of order. However, the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) gave no indication of an intention to table any document.


He did not hear.


Mr. Speaker, apparently you did not hear me when I rose on a point of order.


Order, please. I heard the hon. member very well. He rose on a point of order and asked a question. I am simply endeavouring to indicate to the hon. member as clearly as I can that he does not have a point of order; he has a question for the Prime Minister but the question period is over. In the case of the previous hon. member who had a point of order, the minister indicated that he proposed to table certain documents and the hon. member wanted clarification as to the documents the minister wished to table.
In this case there has been no indication of any intention to table documents. I submit, therefore, that it is not a point of order but simply a question put to the Prime Minister, which may only be asked in the question period and not after orders of the day are called. I recognize the hon. member for Red Deer because he has the floor in the debate before the House.

November 19, 1974
Grain


The House resumed, from Monday, November 18, consideration of the motion of Mr. Lang that Bill C-10, to amend the Prairie Grain Advance Payments Act, be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Agriculture.
Mr. Speaker, as I rise to speak in this debate I feel it is our responsibility on this side of the House to warn people in western Canada who are in the business of producing grain to watch with great attention the agreements they are entering into with regard to advance payments. We recognize the fact that this piece of legislation is generally considered to be good, but it could well be that we will be making amendments to it because there are shortcomings in the bill which should be considered in committee.
We know that the maximum rate of advance payment is $15 per acre for wheat, $18 for barley and $14 for oats. In view of the fact that this constitutes only about 10 per cent of the income from the vast majority of the land used to grow these grains, it could well be that we will have to consider this matter in committee. It seems to me that the minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat Board is playing a game of roulette with western Canadian grain producers. I warn producers to be careful with the arrangements or agreements they make with this minister, because I consider some of his statements to be devious. One of the first things I learned as a boy when at an exhibition was that when you saw somebody with money in his hand, you had to be careful. I remember that on one occasion I learned what was probably the best lesson I ever had: a man was standing with $4 in his hand and he said to me, "If you give me $2, I will give you $4", but when I gave him $2 his $4 disappeared.
I am reminded of this story now, when the minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat Board is bringing in legislation to advance to individual prairie grain the sum of $15,000. We must realize, also, that this amount is multiplied for two or three producers. This is as it should be, because agricultural operations are becoming much larger. However, one of the shortcomings in the game the minister is playing is that inevitably the initial payment for grain each year is much lower than it should be. A case in point was this year.
Yesterday the minister rose in his place and increased the initial payment, and rightly so. There is no reason in the world why there should not be such a reasonable payment at the beginning of the crop year. There would not, then, be any reason for an interim payment. The minister always seems to be handing out a little bit of candy as you would to a youngster. I can assure the minister that the produ