Mr. Speaker, after discussions among the parties, a basic agreement has been reached as to the manner in which we should proceed, today, tomorrow and Friday with the business of supply.
As the House is aware, the main estimates have been discussed in the last parliament and in this parliament in standing committees, and there is a special order dealing with the remainder of the business and how to dispose of it by Friday afternoon. When orders of the day are called I understand there is agreement to dispose of the motion for concurrence in main estimates and of the motion for concurrence in supplementary estimates (A) without debate. The motion for first reading of the consequent appropriation bill is, of course, not debatable. I understand there is also agreement to dispose of the motion for second reading of the bill without debate. The House will then go into Committee of the Whole on the bill. I understand that there is agreement that all the clauses of the bill be stood and that the committee proceed directly to schedule A of the bill, which refers to the main estimates.
So that consideration of schedule A, that is, the main estimates, may be undertaken in an orderly fashion, it is my understanding that there is agreement that discussion should be organized in the following manner: First, for about an hour to an hour and one half, discussion would be on the estimates of the President of the Treasury Board (Mr. Chretien) and can, thereby, cover a broad range of matters relating to financial and personnel management of the government. Second, for about two and one half to three hours, discussion would be on the estimates of the Minister of Transport (Mr. Marchand). Third, for about two and one half to three hours, discussion would be on the estimates of the Minister of State for Urban Affairs (Mr. Danson). Fourth, for about two and one half to three hours, discussion would be on the estimates of the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Richardson). Fifth, for about two and one half to three hours, discussion would be on the estimates of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development (Mr. Buchanan). Sixth, for about two and one half to three hours, discussion would be on the estimates of the Minister of Public Works (Mr. Drury).
I should explain that these departments were selected by the opposition parties as those on which they wished to concentrate their discussion. If there is still time remaining before the time on Friday when all outstanding questions must be put, discussion could cover other aspects of the bill, whether in committee of the whole or on third reading stage.
There is an understanding as well with respect to debate that, in order to give all members an opportunity of discussing these departments, each member should be restricted to one 20 minute speech in the committee on each department, but that this restriction would not apply in cases of direct questioning and answering. Nor would a minister be prevented from rebutting points made during the discussion.
It would be possible to make an order with regard to the plan that I have just outlined, but such an order might impose too much rigidity on the debate and I do not believe it will be necessary. If there is difficulty, the committee could rise, report progress and the House could then deal with the necessary order.


Mr. Speaker, the government House leader has generally outlined the results of the discussions that we have had and the agreements at which we have attempted to arrive. For the reasons I assigned earlier when we first had these discussions, namely that the government had put itself into a very serious predicament, the reasons for which I am too polite to go into now, regarding passage of the estimates, our concern for the recipients of government cheques- pensioners, salaried individuals and so on-persuaded us to forgo the rights we would usually have and go along with this arrangement, and we are continuing to do so.
I want to congratulate the government House leader on persuading his reluctant colleagues to appear in the House to answer questions that will be put to them, and I hope they will be a lot more candid in this procedure than they are normally at question period.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to confirm the statement that has been made by the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Sharp) with respect to the arrangement that has been made for debate during the next three days. If it sounded to anyone by the first remarks of the government House leader as if we were passing over a number of stages without debate, then that is only so that when we get to the actual items in the schedule to the bill we can have all the time that three days will make possible.
It is also understood that this is a program to be followed generally rather than with rigidity. It does work out in such a manner that we would be dealing with two
28305-41'/i

October 23, 1974
Business of the House
departments today, two tomorrow and two on Friday. Of course, if we conclude some of the departments earlier than we thought might be the case, that would leave more time at the end.
This is, of course, a new experience for some members to be dealing with estimates in the House, or in committee of the whole.


And for some ministers.


Yes, as the hon. member for Peace River (Mr. Baldwin) said, a new experience for some ministers. We hope it will be a fruitful three days, not only for what we do during these three days but as an experiment in dealing with estimates on the floor of the House.
The only other comment I wish to make while I am on my feet is an unusual one in that I should like to correct something that was said by the hon. member for Peace River. I heard him say it just now and he also said it on the radio this morning. I think it should be clear that pensions are not covered in the estimates. Pensions are provided by statute and are payable whether or not estimates pass. Certain salaries and such things are covered in the estimates of government expenses generally. But let us not alarm our pensioners with the thought that there is going to be any delay in their getting the meagre pensions that they now receive.

Mb. Andre Fortin (Lotbiniere): Mr. Speaker, I too would like to confirm, on behalf of my colleagues of the Social Credit party, that we took an active part in working out a new formula for the business of the House, and especially the study of credits and the main budget that they may be studied in an orderly and planned fashion. We feel that this proposal which was agreed to unanimously should not be rigid and change the practice in years past where we diddled around without really getting to the bottom of the problems.
Mr. Speaker, according to this agreement, it is also understood, which I believe the hon. members for Peace River (Mr. Baldwin) and Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles) forgot to mention, that on third reading, any hon. member will be allowed to speak freely on any part of the credits.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to speak to the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Sharp), in view of the answer given by the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) that with the cooperation of the opposition members it would be possible to hasten the introduction of a bill lowering old age security eligibility to 60. This agreement for the debate on estimates and the unanimous cooperation the government gets from this side of the House show that there is no need to wait till October 1975 to study the old age security legislation. We realize we could study as rapidly this bill that would be most welcome by 60 year old Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, I have the growing impression that those who cooperate most in this House are members sitting on this side.


for leave to introduce Bill C-30, to repeal the Prairie Farm Assistance Act.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
What was the total amount of LIP funds allocated in 1973-74 to constituencies represented in the House of Commons by (a) Members of the Liberal Party (b) Members of the Progressive Conservative Party?


(a) Constituencies represented by members of the Liberal Party, $37,181,000; (b) Constituencies represented by members of the Progressive Conservative Party, $22,665,000.
# (oooo)


Since the amendment to the National Housing Act in June, 1973 (a) what provinces have signed an agreement with the government under the terms of the amendment (b) how many projects have been effected or are underway (i) in which province (ii) what is the nature of each such project (iii) what is the value of each such project?


I am advised by Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation as follows: (a) The Neighbourhood Improvement Program is the only one included in the 1973 amendments of the National Housing Act which requires a formal agreement with the provinces. Under this program, agreements have now been signed with all provinces, except the Province of Nova Scotia, (b) NIP is a flexible program to upgrade neighbourhood environments and it may include selecting neighbourhoods and formulating redevelopment plans; acquiring and clearing land to provide open space or community facilities; acquiring and clearing land for low and medium income housing; constructing or acquiring and improving neighbourhood recreation or social facilities; developing occupancy and building maintenance standards; making loans for commercial improvements; relocating those individuals dispossessed of housing through NIP and of the exposition of the project and improving municipal services and public utilities. The selection of any of these steps is left to the
October 23, 1974

community and the municipality, within budgetary restraints, and federal involvement is confined to ensuring that the criteria for the program are respected. To date, no project has yet been completed; five projects have reached the implementation stage. These are:
Federal
Contributions
Province	$000
Corner Brook, Newfoundland		639
Sudbury, Ontario	 337
Calgary, Alberta	 1,031
Edmonton, Alberta	 1,031
Rossland, British Columbia		125
There are also 31 other projects (neighbourhoods) that have reached the planning stages; these are:
	Number of	Federal
	N eighbourhoods	Contributions
Province	Selected	$000
Ontario		
Ottawa	... 3	1,290Grimsby	. . . 1	258Niagara Falls	... 2	645Sudbury	... 1	953Kingston	. . . 1	645Lindsay	... 1	344Sarnia	. . . 1	645Twp. of Sarnia	. . . 1	430Ridgetown	. . . 1	258Windsor	... 1	860Borough of Etobicoke	.. . 1	860Sault Ste. Marie	... 1	860Twp. of East Gwillimbury	. . . 2	430Manitoba	Winnipeg	. . . 2	2,750Saskatchewan	Hudson Bay	... 1	100Meadow Lake	... 1	112British Columbia	Vancouver	... 2	1,500Powell River	. . 1	125New Westminster	... 2	625Victoria	... 2	1,000Coquitlam	... 1	250Prince Rupert	... 2	250


1.	Is the government taking any steps to keep the Port of Montreal open year round and (a) if so, what are they (b) if not, for what reason?
2.	Does the government intend to use containers in the Port of Montreal and, if not, for what reason?
3.	Does the government intend to charge tolls on the St. Lawrence River and, if so, for what reason?


1. The
government is taking steps to keep the Port of Montreal
Order Paper Questions
open year round. Canadian Coast Guard Icebreakers maintain a navigable channel in the St. Lawrence River from the Gulf to Montreal during winter months.
2.	During 1973 a record total of 116,405 containers were handled at the Port of Montreal. The number has been increasing each year since 1967.
3.	Tolls are only payable for the use of the St. Lawrence Seaway which extends from the St. Lambert Lock at Montreal to the most western lock at Sault Ste. Marie on the Great Lakes.


1.	How many veterans are presently on a waiting list for domiciliary care in hospitals and veterans homes?
2.	How many have been on this list for (a) more than three months (b) more than six months?


1. 268.
2.	(a) 26; (b) 161.


What is the total amount of money paid to date in respect of the prosecution of the Irving interests under the Combines Investigation Act?


Cost of New Brunswick Newspaper Prosecution*1*:
William L. Hoyt, Q.C. Hoyt, Mockler, Allen, Dixon & Godin	Legal fees	$101,786Fredericton, New Brunswick (Crown Counsel)	Disbursement	27,252T. Joseph Scanlon, Dean of the School of Journalism,	Fees	9,100Carleton University,	Disbursements	3,367
Ottawa, Ontario
(Special Assistant to Crown Counsel-
Consultant)
Winnifred Johnston	630
Saint John, New Brunswick
(Witness)


<* Does not include travelling expenses and time of Department of Justice personnel and of officers on the staff of the Director of Investigation and Research.
How many people were directly involved with the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs in 1960 and every year up to and including 1974 to date?

October 23, 1974
Order Paper Questions


The Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs was not formed until 1968. The number of people employed since that time is: 1968-846; 1969-1493; 1970-1517; 1971-1624; 1972-1807; 1973-2034; 1974-2236.


1.	On March 31, 1974, how many public servants in the Department of Veterans Affairs listed their mother tongue as (a) English (b) French (c) other?
2.	How many listing (a) English (b) French as their mother tongue are considered by the Department to be bilingual?


1. (a) 5,849; (b) 1,970; (c) 720.
2. This information is not available to the Department and an extensive and costly study would be required to provide a complete answer to this question.


1.	On what date was the two-price wheat payment authorized to be made to 1972-73 special permit holders?
2.	On what date were these cheques mailed?
3.	What was the total number of cheques issued?
4.	How many cheques were issued for the incorrect amount which resulted in the recipient being called upon to make a refund to the Canadian Wheat Board?


1. May 23, 1974.
2.	June 3, 1974.
3.	9,586.
4.	7,529. Refund is to the federal government-not the Canadian Wheat Board.


From August 1 to the date this question is answered (a) what has been the total amount paid by the Canadian Wheat Board for demurrage on grain ships delayed at the West Coast because of slowdown and/or the grainhandlers strike (b) what amounts have been paid by the Canadian Wheat Board under penalty clauses in contracts for delivery of grain as a result of the grainhandlers strike on the West Coat (c) has the Canadian Wheat Board purchased any grain from other exporting countries and arranged delivery from that other exporting country to fulfill contract commitments which the Canadian Wheat Board was unable to fulfill because of the strike?


(a) $1,484,226.12; (b) Nil; (c) No. Payments in (a) resulted from earlier shipping delays, not from recent strike or slowdown.


Mr. Speaker, notices of motions for the production of papers Nos. 1 and 4 are acceptable to the government.
ELECTION EXPENSES SUBMITTED BY CANDIDATES-1974 Motion No. 1-Mr. Knowles (Winnipeg North Centre):
That an Order of the House do issue for a return showing, by electoral districts, the total amount of election expenses on behalf of each candidate in the General Election of July 8, 1974, as indicated in the return respecting election expenses submitted on behalf of each candidate, as required under the provisions of Section 63 of the Canada Elections Act; and showing also, by electoral districts, the names of all candidates on whose behalf election expense returns have not been submitted.


Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 4-Mr. Orlikow:
That an Order of the House do issue for the production of papers showing the studies prepared by departments or agencies which permitted the Department of Manpower and Immigration to make the allocations for LIP projects among the various constituencies.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, notices of motions for the production of papers Nos. 6 and 7 are acceptable to the government subject to the agreement of the veterans' organizations to tabling of correspondence by them.
I would ask that the other notices of motions be allowed to stand.


Motion No. 6-Mr. Marshall:
That an Order of the House do issue for copies of all correspondence, telegrams and minutes of meetings between the Minister of Veterans Affairs and the National Veterans Organizations having to do with the report of the Study Committee on the basic rate of pension, during the years 1972, 1973 and 1974.
Motion agreed to.
Motion No. 7-Mr. Marshall:
That an Order of the House do issue for a copy of all correspondence, telegrams and minutes of meetings between the government and the National Veterans Organizations have to do with the extension of the Veterans' Land Act during the years 1968 to September 1974.
Motion agreed to.
October 23, 1974
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Acting Prime Minister whether the Minister for Regional Economic Expansion was expressing government policy in London on Monday when he said that the government likely would favour British or European takeover bids as compared to those made by United States firms attempting to invest in Canada? Is that a statement of government policy?


Mr. Speaker, I have not seen the text of what the minister said in London. I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that the government policy is non-discriminatory. We are desirous of diversifying foreign investment in Canada insofar as it is necessary but there is no classification of investors as to whether one is more acceptable than another.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I assume from what the Acting Prime Minister says that there is no intention to amend the takeover legislation so that it would serve the purpose the minister had in mind. But I should like to ask the Acting Prime Minister whether it is the policy of the government to have one minister stating one position and another minister stating another position. Is it now standard practice for this government to adopt the tactics of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and are we to see this extended now to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion and to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.


Order, please. The hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Following the revelation that the profits of the Esso Corporation were up 64 per cent in the first nine months of this year, going from $154 million to $252 million over the comparable period last year and assuming that the figures for the other companies when they come out in the next few days will follow the same pattern, is the government considering reducing the amount of the payment made to the oil companies for petroleum brought in on the east coast under the fund set up by the government.
Oral Questions


The view of the government in respect of the effective administration of the compensation program is that it should be paid equally to whatever importer, refiner or other company on an equal basis, but that it would be up to fiscal policy to determine what if any rate of income tax any particular company would have to bear. In that regard I would have to defer to my colleague, the Minister of Finance.


Mr. Speaker, I, too, will defer to the Minister of Finance and ask that minister if he would care to comment upon the question I put to his colleague. Given the fact that the deferred taxes of the Esso Corporation belong to the people of Canada and represent an amount in excess of $226 million, will the minister consider levying at least an interest charge on those funds owed to the people of Canada say at the level we now pay for long-term bonds?


Mr. Speaker, I have some difficulty in meeting that question coming from the hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby because I proposed in the last Parliament an amount of $410 million in tax against the oil companies and that budget was defeated by that party.


The hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby on a final supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, the minister well knows there were many other parts to that budget which many people found objectionable. Regardless of what was in that budget last year, does the government or does it not intend to take specific action in terms of tax policy toward the oil companies who are making what any reasonable person would describe as exorbitant profits.


Mr. Speaker, the government's position will be known on the night of the first budget in this Parliament.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is directed to the Minister of Finance because I want to give him an opportunity to contradict a press report to the effect that he failed miserably in his recent journey out west. Would the minister indicate whether he expects to reach any agreement with certain western provinces in respect of the general ques-

October 23, 1974
Oral Questions
tion of resource industries and in particular a sharing formula in respect of petroleum revenues in this country.


Mr. Speaker, I told the House earlier that the purpose of the visits to the various provinces, not only the four western provinces but also discussions I have had with the provincial treasurer of Ontario, the minister of finance of Quebec and, in a few days with the four Atlantic provinces, was not negotiation, because each level of government has to determine, on its own responsibility to its own legislature, or mine to parliament, the budgetary policy of the jurisdiction it represents. So the visits were in the realm of discussion, and I tried to reveal to the provinces the reasons for my budgetary proposals on May 6 to indicate to them that I felt that the federal parliament and the people of Canada were not receiving a fair share of resource revenues as a result of unilateral provincial action.


Hear, hear!


I also indicated to them that the share between the federal and provincial jurisdictions should be governed in such a fashion that the resource industries in the country have a fair return and a sufficient incentive in cash flow for exploration and development.


I am sure that the minister appreciates the fact that there is some area of doubt across the country in respect of this so-called divided jurisdiction at present. Are we then to assume there are no further negotiations between the minister and this government or any provincial government in relation to sharing resource taxation in this country?


I am open to further discussions with any of the provinces at the ministerial level and the Prime Minister of Canada has invited all first ministers to a meeting here to discuss the economic situation, including resource taxation, on October 30.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Solicitor General.
It is a relatively frequent occurrence that members recommend paroles be granted by the board. Since the board's answers come a number of days and sometimes weeks later, could the minister apply some pressure in order that we get faster answers? In a similar way, when a pardon is requested after 5 years' parole or 5 years of clean record, we are informed that the issuance of a decision may take up to 3 years, which accounts for a total of 8 years. Could the minister approach the board so that pardons are granted, not because of requests by members of parliament, but because the individual concerned paid his debt and wants to resume his normal place in society.


As the
House knows, the National Parole Board is an independent board and makes a decision on each case after examining all documents and evidence. From time to time members of parliament or others make recommendations or comments, and these are taken into consideration with all other evidence. But I would not want to put undue pressure on the board. On the other hand, I will bring the comments of the hon. member to the chairman of the board and the members.


I should like to put a question to the Minister in the light of his answers today to the hon. member for Northumberland-Durham. I put the same question basically yesterday and now, to review it briefly, may I ask the Minister of Finance whether he was making any change in reference-


Question.


I am putting the question if you will listen, but if you are going to talk, you will make it more difficult and I will take longer.


Oh, oh!


I asked the minister yesterday whether he was going to continue to put a tax on the provincial royalties. Now I put this question to the minister. Did he discuss with Thomas Kennedy of the Globe and Mail or any other newspaperman whether the budget package which was brought down last May would remain intact as far as that is concerned. Yesterday the minister said we would have to wait until budget night to ascertain that but this article would suggest he has already told the press what he is going to do.


Mr. Speaker, the only people of the press I met were Mr. Kennedy and all the other reporters who were present at a joint interview I had after my discussions with Mr. Donald Getty, Minister of Federal and Intergovernmental Affairs in the province of Alberta, and Mr. Gordon Minie-ly the provincial Treasurer of Finance. It was a joint press conference and at no time did I express myself in those terms.


Mr. Speaker, this is so important I think I should put this question to the minister very succinctly. Did he make a statement to Mr. Kennedy to the effect that the budget package of May would remain intact, meaning that the tax affecting the oil industry would remain as of May 8? I think we are entitled to an answer because of the job the Minister of Finance is doing.
October 23, 1974


Order, please. I am under the distinct impression that the minister answered that question in the negative just a moment ago. The hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. I appreciate that the Speaker takes into consideration sometimes these people who do not get an opportunity to express themselves. My point of privilege is that Thomas Kennedy said in this article in the Globe and Mail this morning, referring to the minister:
He left Edmonton, visibly tense and exasperated, to put the finishing touches to a new budget, hinting strongly that all the controversial tax provisions contained in last May's version of the federal fiscal package remain intact for a possible reintroduction early in November.
Mr. Speaker, there are two reasons for raising this question. First of all, if that statement was made it was a definite leak to the press by the Minister of Finance. Second, if the statement was not made, then I think the minister should say without equivocation that he never discussed that phase at all with the press. It is either a leak or it is not a leak.


Order, please. The reason I made the remark I did was that it was my understanding that the question posed to the minister was whether he had made the reported statement. The minister just finished saying, if I understood him correctly, that the news conference was a joint conference at which he did not make such a statement.


I do not care if it was joint or single.


I do not propose to recognize as supplementary questions at any time a request that a minister simply repeat an answer that he has already given. That is the situation. The hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Would the minister tell the House what discussions are in progress with a view to resolving outstanding federal-provincial disputes relating to offshore rights and jurisdictions?


Mr. Speaker, I expect to meet Mr. Crosbie the Newfoundland minister who has recently been given the responsibility for that province's interest in offshore oil and gas, within a week or ten days in Ottawa.


A supplementary, Mr. Speaker. That of course deals with only one of the provinces and I believe there are varying conversations going on with other provinces.


Mr. Speaker, I would remind the hon. member that the federal government and the four other provinces are substantially in accord on the
Oral Questions
kind of regime that should be applied to the east coast offshore. It was only Newfoundland that had failed to agree to the premise which had been found generally acceptable by the others.


May I suggest there is a province called British Columbia.


The hon. member for Prince Albert.


A question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. May I remind the hon. gentleman that the Supreme Court of Canada has declared that British Columbia has no offshore jurisdiction?


You have not talked to Premier Barrett.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Agriculture because of his wide knowledge of the food situation in this country. In view of the need for food to be distributed in various countries of the world now attacked by the scourge of starvation can the minister tell the House if action is being taken to establish a food bank along the lines of one my government endeavoured to establish in 1962 so that food will be made available to areas in need?


Mr. Speaker, at the FAO conference in Rome last year I think I clearly stated the government's position. There have been discussions about this and I think I would be right in saying an emergency session is going on, trying to make sure that cereal grains and other commodities, especially powdered milk, are distributed in areas of real need. I agree with the right hon. gentleman that a world distribution system for food must be developed somehow but how quickly it will be done depends on what happens at the world meeting on food to be held in Rome between November 5 and 15.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. This food bank was to be a NATO venture. Canada made a large contribution and Norway joined but some of the other NATO countries refused to join. Are these other countries in NATO being consulted today and what is the attitude of the United States government to the establishment of a distribution system which, as the minister very properly says, is so absolutely necessary?


Mr. Speaker, I think the reason this meeting is being held under the auspices of the United Nations in Rome is that all nations do not belong to the FAO but all the world powers will be participating in it. We feel that the leading nations must participate in this meeting to make it a success.

October 23, 1974
Oral Questions HOUSING


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of State for Urban Affairs if he could clarify any misunderstanding that apparently exists between CMHC officials and certain Toronto non-profit housing groups with regard to federal grants given them by his predecessor?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. gentleman is referring to a report that the CMHC is requiring repayment of funds advanced for start-up grants for special co-operative programs. I believe that is the case and I am studying the report. There has been no change in the policy whatsoever. If start-up grants are used for capital purposes such as the purchase of land, certainly it would be a part of the purchase rather than a start-up grant, but there has been absolutely no change in this regard. I am happy for the opportunity to clarify that.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the same minister. I wonder if he would advise if any consultations are going on between his department and the Department of Veterans Affairs with a view to producing a housing program for veterans.


Mr. Speaker, there are always consultations going on between the Minister of Veterans Affairs and myself. In specific terms, we are always considering programs that can be of benefit to veterans within CMHC.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question for the Minister of Veterans Affairs. Could the minister advise the House if, in line with the consultations taking place with his colleague the Minister of State for Urban Affairs and housing, a new program for veterans' housing is going to be announced in the near future?


Mr. Speaker, I concur with the remarks of my hon. colleague on that question. Studies are being carried out and if there is going to be an announcement I will be glad to make it in the House.


Mr. Speaker, my question is really for the Minister of the Environment but in her absence perhaps I might address it to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Following the question period last Friday the minister appeared on television saying that the equipment we have for controlling oil spills is so good that the United States is interested in using the same kind. Then the minister went on to say that the equipment involves an oil skimmer as well as peat moss. I should like to ask the minister whether this is the equipment she says is so sophisticated that the government of the United States is interested in it?


Mr. Speaker, I will have to speak to her about that.


Will the government now table the contingency plans as well as an inventory of the equipment they would use in the event of a major oil spill?


Mr. Speaker, I will give consideration to what can be tabled in this respect.


/ UNIFORMS FOR WOMEN MEMBERS OF THE FORCE
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Solicitor General. May I first commend the Solicitor General and through him the RCMP on their decision to recruit women as full members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.


Hear, hear!


In view of recent reports and photographs indicating that the new uniform for women members will be either long dresses or short skirts-


Oh, oh!


I hope there will be equality of service for the women members of the force, considering the special responsibilities they may have for such matters as patrol in some quite cold climates, particularly around Parliament Hill, on occasion of pursuit or regular investigation. Such a uniform might be impractical in this day and age. I ask the minister in all seriousness whether this decision was made in consultation with the new members of the force or whether there was a special women's committee struck in order that there might be an appropriate uniform for women in the RCMP.


Mr. Speaker, in bringing women into the RCMP as full-time mem-

bers, an attempt was made to have their uniforms as close to the men's uniforms as possible. I think the uniforms the hon. member is referring to are the dress uniforms and not the work uniforms. Work uniforms have been approved for the women recruits which include slacks, coats and so on for heavy outdoor work. The uniforms which appeared in the press recently are the dress or the going out uniforms for ceremonial occasions. I can assure the hon. member the work uniforms include slacks and other heavy clothing. I also wish to say that in designing the uniform, we consulted with the women's group in the armed forces as well as consultants, Information Canada and other design groups.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to have some clarification from the minister on this, although I must say that the photographs and newspaper story described the short skirt as the regular working uniform. As this information has been conveyed coast to coast and I would not want this to be a disincentive for other young women who may be interesed in enlisting in the RCMP-


Order, please. The hon. member's sentiments about this matter may be very important, but I wonder whether it is appropriate to make these comments at this time when there are so many members who want to get on with the question period.


Mr. Speaker, if I might just ask-


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. It arises from an answer given today to a question I placed on the order paper. It is to the effect that $37 million in LIP funds went to constituencies represented by Liberals and $22 million to constituencies represented by Conservatives last year. I wish to ask the minister why, when the number of seats in the last House were almost equal, Liberal constituencies received almost $15 million more than those of Conservative constituencies.


Mr. Speaker, it was based on the worthiness of applications by the sponsors in the various areas of Canada, coupled with the degree of unemployment and the formula which I enunciated in this House on several occasions.


Hear, hear!
Oral Questions


Will the minister assure the House there were no political considerations involved?


Most certainly, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I wanted earlier to put a supplementary to the Solicitor General. I am now asking it as a distinct question.
This morning five bandits escaped from St. Vincent de Paul for the fourth time, the same five, including Richard Blass, who got away-


All Liberals!


-I do not know if they are all Liberals, but Richard Blass is from the riding of Mercier in Montreal. This is what the hon. member has just told me.
Mr. Speaker, here is my question: Does the minister intend to order an inquiry at St.Vincent de Paul in order to find out exactly how those same five prisoners could escape four times? The necessary steps have not yet been taken to prevent a recurrence of such incidents. Is the minister in a position to tell us what action he intends to take in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, it is true that this morning five inmates escaped from the Laval temporary maximum penitentiary which is part of the old St. Vincent de Paul Penitentiary. Of these five escapees, at least three had made an escape from this or another penitentiary in the past. This escape was carried out after a woman visitor to the penitentiary smuggled in some weapons. The men escaped by forcing their way out with the weapons. This matter is presently under investigation by the Montreal and Quebec police. The Commissioner of Penitentiaries is on the site investigating as well.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Prime Minister, I will direct my question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the fact the Prime Minister has made it clear that his government intends no action to disallow or refer to the Supreme Court of Canada Quebec's Bill 22, is it the intention of the Prime Minister or the government to bring before this House a resolution encouraging the other provinces of Canada to bring forward language bills stating that they, too, can be officially unilingual?
28305-421/!

October 23, 1974
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I do not think the government would follow the suggestion of the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Last Friday the right hon. member for Prince Albert raised some questions with regard to the Garrison dam project. I wish to ask a further question. In view of statements by Mr. Russell Peterson, chairman of the United States president's council on environmental quality, that a moratorium on all new construction of the Garrison irrigation project in North Dakota be halted and in view of statements by Representative Vanik that the Garrison project is a "monument to folly and bureaucratic inertia", will the Canadian government now renew its attempts in calling for a moratorium in order to stop the pollution of the Souris and Red Rivers in Manitoba?


Mr. Speaker, we certainly welcome the position that was taken by Mr. Peterson, as contained in the question put by the hon. member. We made our position very clear to the United States on the harmful effects this diversion would have and that position will continue to be taken with the American authorities.


A supplementary question. Are there any negotiations going on at the present time?


Mr. Speaker, there have been negotiations. It is expected that further meetings will be held on this subject later this year in an effort to reach a satisfactory resolution of the problem from our point of view.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Labour? Has the minister received a submission from the Saskatchewan Railway Employees Association, whose headquarters are in Biggar, Saskatchewan, requesting his intervention with a view to postponing the implementation by the railway companies of the compulsory check-off of union dues, to be initiated at the end of this month, until a countrywide referendum of railway employees can be held, and if so would the minister advise the House of his intentions in this regard?


I am not
aware of having received the submission in question. I will check, and get in touch with the hon. member.


In view of the importance of the subject matter raised by the hon. member for Prince Albert, might I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister? Would he seriously consider following the precedent of 1961 and ask the Prime Minister to name at least two cabinet ministers and at least two federal members of parliament representing both language groups to make the most effective political representation in favour of the case for a world food bank at the food conference being held in Rome next month?


It is the
intention of the government that at least two cabinet ministers should attend the World Food Conference in Rome at which this proposal will be put forward. I am sure they will represent Canada very well, but I will take under consideration the suggestion that they might be supported by other members. This will be a very large delegation and I think it will be thoroughly representative of Canada. It may even include representatives from nongovernment organizations who will wish to go to support this particular project and others.


Basing my supplementary question on experience in the past, I hope the Acting Prime Minister will make the most fervent representations to the Prime Minister that in no circumstances should there be any recall of any of the ministers during the two weeks.


Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Transport but I notice he is not present. I hope he will be here later this day, because many hon. members are looking for him. I will direct one of my questions to the Minister of Finance. Since the railway rate freeze has now been in force for a little over a year, affecting about 22 per cent of rail freight traffic, can the minister tell us whether or not compensation has been sought by, and paid to, the railroads for alleged losses caused by the freezing of freight rates?


I think that question ought more properly to be directed to the Minister of Transport when he is here later in the day.
October 23, 1974


Does the Minister of Finance have no idea, then, of what amounts are being paid out?


I do. I simply think the Minister of Transport is the appropriate minister to answer the question.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Defence.
Last summer, there was a very unfortunate accident at the Valcartier Canadian Forces Base, which caused the death of two young cadets. The military authorities launched an inquiry on the matter. I should like to know if the minister intends to make public the report he received following the inquiry by the forces authorities?


A board of inquiry has completed its investigation into the most regretable accident at Val Cartier last summer. A press release was issued today following the issue of the report of that inquiry. It could really be looked upon as an interim report; the full report cannot be released at least until after the many recommendations made by the board have been studied.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Manpower related to a serious revelation by the Department of Labour which indicates there are some 40,000 jobs vacant in the province of Alberta affecting the forest industry and construction-as a matter of fact the department calls for a 20 per cent increase of permits for migrants so that they might take up these jobs. Can the minister tell us what immediate steps his department is prepared to take to ensure that those seeking work find jobs, particularly as this relates to the serious situation in Alberta?


Mr. Speaker, I have had several consultations with members of the government of Alberta, most recently in Jasper with Dr. Hohal, the minister of manpower and labour there. We found ourselves in complete agreement that the best method of operating would be to search locally for people to fill these jobs. I might say that in the province of Alberta, particularly, there are a large number of native people who I think should be given the opportunity of filling these jobs even if this were to involve intensive training. I believe the native people of
Oral Questions
Alberta would support this point of view. Should it not be possible to fill the jobs in this way we will place them on the national and regional networks; only after this are we prepared to look abroad for recruitment of immigrants or short-term seasonal workers. Dr. Hohal has expressed his full agreement with this approach. We are working in conjunction with industry there to try to satisfy the demand.


I thank the minister for his answer, but in the light of the continuing concern about the relationship between high job vacancy rates, high unemployment insurance benefits and high unemployment can the minister tell us whether he has undertaken a study in this field, and if so, how soon the results of that study will be revealed?


We have undertaken several specific studies in co-operation with specific industries including the Forest Products Association of British Columbia, the logging industry, the mining industry and others. We find that the existence of unemployment insurance benefits at the present level very rarely constitutes the real inhibition in matching workers with jobs. There are problems related to vocational skills, working conditions, wages and so forth; usually, when we have been able to consult with employers we have succeeded in reaching a meeting of minds which involves some of them tidying up their acts, as it were, though there are other policies which need to be addressed to this situation.


The minister now seems to be saying, in a backhanded way, that there is no need to bring amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act.


That is not what the minister said, and I think the hon. member knows it full well.


May I direct a related question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration? In the light of the statement made by the hon. gentleman yesterday, has he instructed immigration officers in our offices overseas that there exists a serious shortage of labour in western and northern Canada and have these officers been instructed to inform immigrants of these job vacancies?


This has been an on-going exercise. We have been making these officers abroad acquainted with the labour market both on the basis of occupational demand information and more recent techniques for designating, in consultation with the provinces, occupations which are in high demand in given regions. This practice will be continued.
Oral Questions


October 23, 1974
In the
light of this report that there are 40,000 job openings in Alberta, will the minister now give consideration to closing the supplementary unemployment insurance office in Edmonton-the second office located in the riding of Edmonton-Strathcona? It is not needed because of the declining volume of applicants and its closing would save taxpayers more than half a million dollars a year?


The hon. member did write to me about this matter. I am looking into it and I appreciate the information he has given me. If the hon. member's impression is validated by our own analysis we shall not fail to seize the opportunity to reduce the service.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In view of the very intense anxiety of many housewives and others using ground beef, which anxiety has been caused by the report of finding a high level count of bacteria in ground meat which could cause severe illness and morbidity, and since this has been reported previously on other occasions, I should like to ask the minister whether there are any predetermined levels of bacterial counts that are used as a guideline, or any findings of bacterial types that would cause meat to be labelled as unfit for human consumption?


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question. In view of the startling relevation made by the minister outside the House yester-

day that he did not have enough inspectors adequately to enforce the provisions of the Food and Drug Act at the retail food level, what steps is the government taking to ensure that the regulations of the Food and Drug Act are in fact being enforced at the retail food level so as to ensure protection for Canadians?


Once more, Mr. Speaker, the hon. member's imagination is carrying him away. What I said was that there was no way we could have inspectors inspecting each and every store across the whole country every single day. You would need an inspector for every store, and in view of the position of the hon. member's party vis-a-vis the growth of the public service I do not expect he would argue we should have an inspector for every store. That is what I said. On the other hand, my departmental officials are doing everything they can to carry out checks on everything having to do with the proper and satisfactory handling of meat in this country.


A further supplementary, Mr. Speaker. In view of the admission that there are not enough inspectors to carry out or enforce the regulations at the retail level, may I ask the minister whether he will now carry out the recommendation of the Food Prices Review Board and give greater publicity and stiffer penalties to people who break the law, as one means of ensuring that Canadians will be protected against the sale of unhygenic beef?


Mr. Speaker, once more I will not agree with the premise of the hon. member's question. Indeed, we have been working on the implementation of several of the recommendations put forward by the Food Prices Review Board last June