Mr. Speaker, under Standing Order 43, I ask the unanimous consent of the House to raise a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. It deals with the decision of oil retailers in the Rimouski area to increase up to 18 per cent the price of heating oil to customers whose tanks have a capacity of less than 50 gallons. Some retailers have even stopped delivery to their customers who own such tanks. As a result of the flagrant injustice which such a decision represents for the poor who are deprived of an essential service to which they are entitled, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Belle-chasse (Mr. Lambert):


Order. I must interrupt the hon. member and remind him that the motion must be introduced without argumentation in a very short preamble. The hon. member could perhaps move his motion.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I expected that, but to say all that I want to say, I must give a lot of explanations.
Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, I request the unanimous consent of the House to discuss a matter of urgent and pressing necessity, namely the decision of the Rimouski area oil retailers to increase the price of heating fuel by up to 18 per cent for customers having tanks with a capacity under 50 gallons.
I move, seconded by the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Lambert):
That the House instruct the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources to intervene in order to put an end to the discriminatory practices of heating fuel retailers who unjustly penalize people with a low income who own tanks holding less than 50 gallons by arbitrarily increasing the cost of heating fuel.


The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Yes.


No.


There is not unanimous consent; therefore the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to move a motion under Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent public necessity. I hope Your Honour will permit me to give about four brief sentences by way of preamble. The strike by the Seafarers International Union will prevent the shipment of grain through the St. Lawrence Seaway system. Whereas the shipping companies cannot now compete because of the imposition of tolls and dockage charges throughout the St. Lawrence Seaway system, adding to the inflationary cost to the consumers of Canada, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich (Mr. Munro):
That the tolls and dockage charges on the St. Lawrence Seaway system be eliminated forthwith.


Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent. The motion cannot be put.


for leave to introduce Bill C-266, prohibiting the importation of products from the Union of South Africa.


Explain.


Mr. Speaker, "for many years Canadians have been concerned about the injustice of racist and colonial policies in Southern Africa." That statement was made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Sharp) on February 21. This bill, I hope, will help to correct some of those injustices.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
March 25, 1974
Order Paper Questions
for leave to introduce Bill C-267, to amend the British North America Act, 1867 (appointment of Senators).


I am not sure whether the hon. member wishes to rise for the purpose of explaining the bill. Unless there is a request made from the floor it is difficult to interpret the hon. member's intention. If the hon. member seeks the floor for that purpose he will be recognized.


Explain.


This bill would make the other place more representative of the wishes of the population at large and perhaps thereby restore its credibility as a function of parliament.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
for leave to introduce Bill C-268, an act to amend the British North America Act, 1867 (tenure of place of Senators).


Explain.


This bill will be self-explanatory when it is printed.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What was the total amount at credit in the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Superannuation Account as at (a) March 31, 1971 (b) March 31, 1972 (c) March 31, 1973?
2.	What rate of interest has the government paid for the use of this money during the fiscal years ending on the dates noted above?
3.	What amount of interest was credited to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Superannuation Account during the fiscal years ending (a) March 31, 1971 (b) March 31, 1972 (c) March 31. 1973?
4.	What was the total amount paid out of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Superannuation Account during the fiscal years ending (a) March 31, 1971 (b) March 31,1972 (c) March 31, 1973?
[Mr. Reynolds.)


1. (a) March 31, 1971, $199,716,533.74; (b) March 31, 1972, $233,657,501.35; (c) March 31, 1973, $269,053,974.73.
2.	(a) March 31, 1971, 5.3460 per cent; (b) March 31, 1972, 5.5895 per cent; (c) March 31, 1973, 5.8969 per cent.
3.	(a) March 31, 1971, $6,908,452.99; (b) March 31, 1972, $8,325,914.58; (c) March 31, 1973, $9,498,815.49.
4.	(a) March 31, 1971, $1,525,344.69; (b) March 31, 1972, $1,786,016.81; (c) March 31, 1973, $2,329,355.53.


1.	What sections of the old Brockville and Westport Railway right-of-way have been sold or otherwise disposed of by Canadian National Railways since operations ceased on this route?
2.	In each case what was the total cost of disposal, to whom was disposal made and what was the price paid?
3.	What plans, if any, does Canadian National Railways have for portions of the old Brockville and Westport Railway right-of-way which it still owns?


The management of Canadian National Railways advises as follows: 1 and 3. Of the 40 miles of right-of-way involved, a strip approximately 11 miles in length extending from a point near Newboro to a road allowance between Concessions 7 and 8, Township of Bastard, is to be retained by the Railway for possible rail penetration.
2.	It is not company policy to disclose information of this nature.


1.	Did the Solicitor General indicate to reporters on November 20, 1973 in Fredericton, New Brunswick that he hoped Mayor Leonard C. Jones would lose the case which he had before the Supreme Court of Canada against the Official Languages Act and, if so (a) was any action taken to reprimand or censure the Solicitor General for making such a statement (b) what action was taken?
2.	Did the Solicitor General make a public withdrawal of this statement?
3.	Was any action taken by senior members of the government to advise the court that any statements so made were not indicative of government position on the case in question?
4.	What steps have been taken to prevent this type of statement being made in the future by any official who through his position in the cabinet could be construed as speaking for government?
o.	If the Solicitor General did not make such a statement what was done to correct the record?


1. Yes. (a) No; (b) none.
2.	No.
3.	No.
4.	None.
March 25, 1974

5.	Not applicable.


Was a political address made by the Minister of Agriculture to the annual meeting of the Norfolk-Haldimand Liberal party Annual meeting on Friday, February 22, 1974 reprinted at public expense and, if so (a) how many copies were printed (b) how many copies were distributed (c) what specific individual authorized this expenditure of public funds?


No. (a)
Not applicable; (b) not applicable; (c) not applicable.


Was a political address made by the Minister of Agriculture to the annual meeting of the Swift Current-Maple Creek Federal Liberal Association on Monday, February 18, 1974 reprinted at public expense and, if so (a) how many copies were printed (b) how many copies were distributed (c) what specific individual authorized this expenditure of public funds?


No. (a)
Not applicable; (b) not applicable; (c) not applicable.


1.	What is the established support level for (a) beef cattle (b) hogs (c) eggs as of January 1, 1974?
2.	Has the government had discussions with the government of Saskatchewan in regard to assisting that province with its support program of $57 per cwt. for hogs?


1. The
established mandatory support level under the Agricultural Stabilization Act is: (a) beef cattle, $23.21 per cwt.; (b) hogs, $26.85 per cwt.; (c) eggs, 28.60 cents per dozen.
2. Yes.


By region in Canada, what was the strontium 90 level at the end of December of 1973, 1972 and 1971?


1. The strontium 90 levels, in units of picocuries per litre of milk, are as follows:
December December December
1971	1972	1973British Columbia	5.9	6.2	4.8Prairie Provinces	6.9	5.7	4.2Ontario	7.6	6.3	5.3Quebec	8.3	7.0	6.2Maritime provinces	9.7	7.0	5.6Newfoundland	14.0	15.4	9.6
Order Paper Questions


Has the government adopted as a matter of policy the principle of meeting the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index in terms of annual increases in pay and allowances for members of the Canadian Armed Forces and, if not, for what reason?


No. Pay rates for members of the Canadian Armed Forces, which are reviewed annually, reflect the principle of paying salaries comparable to those prevailing in the Public Service of Canada. Pay Rates in the Public Service compare, in turn, with those paid by outside employers. Therefore, pay rates for the Canadian Armed Forces are indirectly related to rates paid in the private sector.


1.	As of December 31, 1973, what percentage of persons in receipt of Public Service Superannuation are in receipt of benefit under the Public Service Supplementary Retirement Benefit Act (a) including those affected by recent changes in the legislation affecting such payments (b) excluding those newly brought under the legislation?
2.	As of December 31, 1973, how many persons were in receipt of benefit under the PSSA and under the PSSRBA?


1. As of December 31, 1973, slightly over 92 per cent of the persons receiving benefits under the Public Service Superannuation Act were also in receipt of the benefits under the Supplementary Retirement Benefits Act. The amendments to the latter act in 1973, do not affect the over-all number of Public Service Superannuation Act recipients who are entitled to increases.
2. As of December 31, 1973, 72,712 persons were receiving benefits under the Public Service Superannuation Act. Of these 67,163 were receiving increases pursuant to the Supplementary Retirement Benefits Act.


What is the forecast of the government of aggregate domestic supply and demand for funds in 1974 and 1975?


The government's forecasts, such as those on the aggregate domestic supply and demand for funds in 1974 and 1975, are necessarily tentative, subject to regular revision as more information becomes available, and for internal purposes only.


Does the government foresee a major shift of corporate borrowing away from bank loans into the long bond market in 1974 and, if so, in what dollar amounts?
806

March 25, 1974
Order Paper Questions


In 1973 corporations relied heavily on short-term bank credit to satisfy their needs largely for working capital purposes. This was indicative of the availability of bank credit and its cost relative to the securities markets. Corporations switch their short-term borrowings between banks and the securities markets for even small shifts in the relative costs of these funds. They can be expected to switch to the money market for example, if costs there fall below the cost of bank credit. Some such shifts have already Occurred in 1974. Future shifts will depend on the relative cost of funds. As far as the long-term bond markets are concerned, it is relevant to note first that corporations have accumulated large amounts of short-term liabilities and second that corporate fixed investment is expected to be large in 1974. Taking both of these factors into account it is likely that corporations will wish to match their assets and liabilities closely and they are therefore likely to borrow larger amounts from the long-term bond markets than in 1973. The dollar amounts involved depend on a number of factors which will only emerge as the year progresses.


In the 1974-75 period, what fiscal policy stance should the total government sector in Canada adopt and what kind of balance of taxing, spending and borrowing will be most appropriate between the three levels of government?


The considered response of the government to this question will be given in the budget address.


1.	How many Immigration counsels operate at the International Airport, Toronto?
2.	What are the qualifications of these counsels and how were they appointed?
3.	(a) What are the fees charged by these counsels (b) are they paid in advance (c) are receipts issued?
4.	How do they make contact with the incoming visitors?
5.	How is the fee charged for these services established?
6.	Who polices their activities?


Persons who act as counsel for individuals during proceedings under the Immigration Act and Regulations at the Toronto International Airport are in no way connected or associated with the Department of Manpower and Immigration. An individual who indicates a desire to be represented by counsel at such proceedings is directed to either his country's diplomatic representative or to the local office of the Ontario Legal Aid Plan. Private counsels therefore must rely for referrals on such organizations, members of the ethnic community or friends and relatives of the individuals involved. The Department of Manpower and Immigration has no knowledge of these counsels' business practices nor their relationships with their clients.


1.	What were the amounts of money spent by the Treasury Board on publicity and/or information in each of the fiscal years 1972-73 and 1973-74 to date?
2.	What were the names and addresses of firms and individuals who received these contracts, what amounts of money were spent in each case and what was the purpose of each contract?
3.	In the case of expenditures for publicity and/or information made within the department by its publicity or information division, what was the amount in each case and the purpose of the expenditure?


1.
1972-73, $82,415; 1973-74, $109,621.
2.
Name and Address
Purpose
Amount
paid
Canadian Mailbag Marketing Ltd. Toronto, Ont.
11. J. Louks,
Ottawa, Ont. Mhun & Associes Lt6e 13 conomistes-Conseils Montreal, Que.
To assist in the Publishing of the booklet "Plow your Tax Dollar Is Spent."
1973-74 Michel Billot Montreal, Que.
It. J. Louks Ottawa, Ont.
To advise and assist in revision of the French Language version of the Guide on Financial Administration.
4,000
9,600
1,088	14,688
2,100
To advise and assist in the drafting and editing of the booklet "IIow Your Tax Dollar Is Spent."
Gottschalk and Ash Ltd.
Montreal, Quebec To prepare a graphic design system in support of the Treasury Board Secretariat publications and communications with departments and the general public.
4,330
5,590
3.	1972-73, $67,727; 1973-74, $97,596. These amounts represent salaries and associated cost involved in the departmental information program for publications on the department and the economy, presentation of the estimates, response to oral and written inquiries, printing and distribution of policy statements and announcements, etc.


1.	How many persons convicted of (a) murder (b) capital murder (c) non-capital murder are now serving time in Canadian prisons?
March 25, 1974

2.	How many persons convicted of (a) murder (b) capital murder (c) non-capital murder were released from Canadian prisons in 1973?


1. (a) 70;
(b) 63; (c) 423.
2.	(a) Four (includes two who died while still in penitentiary); (b) two; (c) 19.


What were the British Columbia LIP figures for the past year (1972), by constituency?


The total allocations, including summer extensions, to each British Columbia constituency in 1972-73 are as follows: Burnaby-Richmond-Delta, $334,210; Burnaby-Seymour, $358,685; Capilano, $834,767; Coast Chilcotin, $1,127,810; Comox-Alberni, $1,236,030; Esquimalt-Saanich, $472,698; Fraser Valley East, $927,471; Fraser Valley West, $774,872; Kam-loops-Cariboo, $1,122,355; Kootenay West, $1,050,145; Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands, $833,347; New Westminster, $859,437; Okanagan Boundary, $1,053,795; Okanagan-Kootenay, $1,121,480; Prince George-Peace River, $1,199,707; Skeena, $1,062,793; Surrey, $899,633; Vancouver Centre, $3,028,982; Vancouver East, $2,670,388; Vancouver Kingsway, $740,469; Vancouver Quadra, $895,290; Vancouver South, $339,324; Victoria, $999,660.


For what reason is the Canadian Postal Code made out of a series of numbers and letters when the Postal Code used in the United States and other parts of the world is a straight, simple numbering system?


The
Canadian postal code is designed to enable the post office to sort mail mechanically down to letter carrier walks. In order to achieve this without making use of nine or ten digits it is necessary to use letters, which of course have the effect of permitting more choices.


1.	Under the terms of the 1967 Immigration Act, Section 28(1) as amended November 6, 1972, has consideration been given to the effects of deportation upon the individual who comes to visit and, if so (a) in what way (b) with what results?
2.	Are changes in immigration regulations being contemplated as a result of current problems?
3.	Is consideration being given to requiring prospective visitors to Canada to obtain visitors visas before departure for Canada to avoid inconvenience on arrival and, if not, for what reason?


1. The amendment to section 28(1) of the Immigration Regulations on November 6, 1972 has no effect on the temporary admission of bona fide tourists who come to Canada and leave at the end of their visit. This section of the Immigration
Order Paper Questions
Regulations is used for deportation purposes only in the case of persons who seek immigrant admission and are not in possession of a valid immigrant visa where one is required.
2.	The regulation is working satisfactorily and no changes are being planned. All aspects of immigration policy and procedures are, however, under review by the Canadian Immigration and Population Study group.
3.	The Department of Manpower and Immigration has no plans at the moment for altering the present non-immigrant visa requirements for visitors. However bona fide tourists who do not now require such visas to visit Canada can, if they wish, obtain such visas if they feel they would facilitate their travel plans.


Does Jacques Lanctot who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross have a Canadian passport and, if so (a) when was it issued (b) when does it expire?


Jacques Lanctot who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970 following the release of James Cross does not have a valid Canadian passport.


Does Suzanne Lanctot who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross have a Canadian passport, and, if so (a) when was it issued (b) when does it expire?


Suzanne Lanctot who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross does not have a valid Canadian passport.


Does Marc Carbonneau who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross have a Canadian passport and, if so (a) when was it issued (b) when does it expire?


Marc Carbonneau who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross does not have a valid Canadian passport.


Does Yves Langlois who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross have a Canadian passport and, if so (a) when was it issued (b) when does it expire?


Yves Langlois, alias Pierre Seguin, who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross does not have a valid Canadian passport.
27398-52.1

March 25, 1974
Order Paper Questions


Does Jacques Cossette-Trudel who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross have a Canadian passport and, if so (a) when was it issued (b) when does it expire?


Jacques Cossette-Trudel who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970 following the release of James Cross does not have a valid Canadian passport.


Does Louise Cosette-Trudel who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross have a Canadian passport and, if so (a) when was it issued (b) when does it expire?


Louis Cosette-Trudel who flew to Cuba on a government aircraft on December 3, 1970, following the release of James Cross, does not have a valid Canadian passport.


1.	What is the maximum number of hours per week which Air Canada pilots are permitted to (a) work (b) fly?
2.	What was the total number of days worked by all Air Canada pilots in the calendar year 1972 and, of those days, how many were more than eight hours in length?
3.	Have any complaints been received by Air Canada, the Department of Transport or the Canadian Transport Commission with respect to (a) pilot fatigue (b) the effect of time zone changes on pilots and crew?
4.	Is the Department of Transport or Canadian Transport Commission in the process of, or planning to investigate, Air Canada flights with respect to (a) pilot fatigue (b) effect of time zone changes on pilots and crew?


The Management of Air Canada advises as follows: 1 and 2. As provided by the collective agreement, "75 hours of flying shall constitute the monthly maximum for all pilots". Each block holder (pilot) is required to have four separate time-off periods of not less than 48 consecutive hours or three separate periods of not less than 72 consecutive hours. While a pilot could be scheduled to be on duty for up to 14 hours, if he commences work between the hours of 2200 and 0500 this 14 hours is reduced to 11, and the 11 hours is further reduced by one hour for each landing in excess of five landings. It should be noted that Air Canada's flight and duty time limitations are more stringent than required by the Ministry of Transport, and, generally speaking, pilots receive considerably more time off than the minimum required by the airline itself.
3. As states publicly by the president of the Canadian Air Line Pilots Association, flight and duty time limitations and other matters of this nature have not occasioned

any problems. Differences, if any, are resolved by CALPA and the airline with the objective always being maximum safety of the operation.
The Ministry of Transport and the Canadian Transport Commission advises as follows: 3. (a) No. (b) No.
4.	(a) and (b). No, but the ministry is planning future studies of this problem, as it relates to the entire spectrum of Canadian Civil Aviation activities.


1.	(a) How many civilian members of the Department of National Defence were there (b) how many were in each of the grades of Senior Executive Grade 1 and above, on March 31, 1973 (c) what were the salary ranges for each grade at that date?
2.	On March 31, 1973, how many public servants were there in the departments of (a) External Affairs (b) National Health and Welfare (c) Transport?
3.	On March 31, 1973, how many public servants in each of the departments were in the Senior Executive Grade 1 and above or equivalent, and what were the salary ranges for each grade on that date?
Return tabled.


1.	What specifically is the spending and building program for the next five years by type (operational capability) of vessels to be budgeted by the Ministry of Transport as found in the Ministry of Transport's Marine Transportation Program Capital Budget Update of December 31, 1973 for (a) operational use north of 60 degrees parallel (b) operational use south of 60 degrees parallel?
2.	With reference to the answer to Question No. 2,335 of the First Session of the 29th Parliament, what reasons was the Budget Update of December 31, 1972, answered in the first session of the 29th Parliament on January 9, 1974?
3.	What is the exact nature of the Ministry's Budget Update in terms of (a) accuracy of cost estimates (b) Treasury Board approval of funding indicated (c) Cabinet approval of funding indicated therein (d) other board parameters particularly the planning period involved?
Return tabled.


1.	What has been the size and interest rate earned by the Public Service Superannuation Account for each quarter since 1965?
2.	For each quarter since 1965, what has been the amount involved and the interest earned on new investments under the account?
Return tabled.
March 25, 1974


1.	What are the names and addresses of the firms on the current list of consulting firms eligible to provide professional services to the Canadian International Development Agency?
2.	Since 1968 (a) what are the names and addresses of the firms that have been subtracted from the list (b) what are the names that have been added to the current list?
3.	For each of the consulting firms (a) on the current CIDA list (b) subtracted from the current CIDA list, what is the total amount of money paid to each firm for services rendered to CIDA since 1968?
4.	For each fiscal year 1968-69, 1969-70, 1970-71, 1971-72 and to date, what percentage of CIDA's expenditures on capital projects, either under way or proposed, is taken up by moneys paid for outside professional services broken down as to consultants, architects, engineers, contractors, lawyers, project managers and other professionals?
Return tabled.


1.	What was the total amount of money spent in each of the fiscal years 1972-73 and 1973-74 to date by the Treasury Board on contracts to outside persons and organizations for research, development and other consulting services?
2.	What are the names and addresses of these outside persons and organizations and what amounts of money were involved in each contract?
3.	What was the purpose of each contract and title of each report submitted?
Return tabled.


1.	In each of the past ten years, how many successful applicants for fellowships or other assistance from (a) the National Research Council (b) the Canada Council were landed immigrants at the time of their application?
2.	(a) How many such applicants did not proceed to receipt of full status as Canadian citizens (b) what was the total dollar value of fellowships or other assistance, in the past ten years, to landed immigrants who did not proceed to full status as Canadian citizens?
Return tabled.


1.	What were the names of corporations which received subsidies under the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Remission Program (MVM) in each of the fiscal years from the Program's inception to date and what were the amounts of money remitted in each case?
2.	What were the names of corporations which received subsidies or remissions of taxes and duties on motor vehicle parts imported into Canada in each of the fiscal years from 1961-62 to 1973-74 to date and what were the amounts of money and the programs involved in each case?
Return tabled.
Oral Questions


1.	Who are the members of the Advisory Group on Executive Compensation in the Public Service dealing with salaries for senior public servants and what are the backgrounds and qualifications of each?
2.	What staff assistance, if any, did the Committee have?
3.	How many meetings did this Committee make before submitting its report to the government?
4.	Did the Committee have prepared for it any comparative studies of the salaries paid to senior public servants and private industry?
5.	Did the Committee have prepared for it any studies as to the salaries paid to senior executives in private industry and was such information provided to the government?
6.	Were representations made to the Committee by the Management Committee of the Senior Public Service?
Return tabled.


have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. Recognizing that we were told recently by the Minister of Transport that the country has no transportation policy, and in view of the fact that carloadings have declined by more than one-per cent so far this year despite the expansion in the economy, I should like to ask the Prime Minister when the government first recognized that transportation policy is inadequate and that a completely new policy is needed, as indicated by the Minister of Transport?


Very shortly after the last Transportation Act which was passed in 1967, I believe, questions were raised about it, and at every federal-provincial meeting I have attended since the western premiers have been asking that the question of policy be reopened and restudied. I have consistently answered them, as I now answer the Leader of the Opposition, by saying we are certainly prepared to re-examine the act if the provinces and ourselves arrive at better solutions than the ones embodied in the present act. Without going into too much detail, I would remind the House that back about 1969 the three prairie provinces agreed to embark on certain studies which would, in their view, prove that the act as it now stands should be reviewed.


Was the Minister of Transport stating the government's position when he said in the House that the country really has no transportation policy, that the policy adopted in the 1960s is not working, and that in his judgment we have no transportation policy?


Mr. Speaker, I do not believe, with respect, that the Leader of the Opposition is quoting the minister with a great degree of accuracy. The minister has

March 25, 1974
Oral Questions
indicated that a lot is lacking in the policy and that he is prepared to correct it to that extent. But that is not to say there is no policy; that is to say that the policy is one which is not satisfactory to all parts of the country.


The Minister of Transport referred specifically to the unwillingness of the railways to order boxcars, for example. Can the Prime Minister tell the House what kind of forecasting the government receives, say six months or a year ahead, with regard to the supply of cars and other equipment to the railways in relation to anticipated requirements? Is there a monitoring system available to the government which indicates what the situation is likely to be six months or a year ahead, and would it not be fair to say that the government knew a year ago that there would be today the approximate degree of shortage of railway equipment that the country is actually suffering?


Mr. Speaker, the kind of question that I have been discussing with the Department of Transport is very much along the lines suggested by the Leader of the Opposition. There was an attempt to forecast not only a year ago but some years in advance the various quantities of goods which would be moved in Canada, the periodicity of these movements, and the quantity of boxcars which would be needed to ensure such movement. So forecasting is being attempted. I would not care to indicate that it is always accurate, but the statement of the Minister of Transport did not refer so much to the number of boxcars-and he indicated the government's past and present attempts to solve that problem-but to the question of the railways themselves not finding it profitable to move grain at certain frozen rates, the Crowsnest rates and so on. This is the nature of the difficulty, as the Leader of the Opposition knows.


Order, please. There are so many members seeking supplementaries on this subject that perhaps we should try to complete the first round of questioning and have all the supplementaries after we have completed the first round. I will recognize the hon. member for Yorkton-Melville and then a representative of the third party, and then return to this subject matter.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In view of the fact the corporate tax cuts along with the two-year writeoffs make our effective corporate tax rate lower than that of the United States, thus making for a transfer of funds from our country to the United States treasury, I should like to ask the minister whether he has calculated the total amount of funds or money that will go to the United States treasurj from Canada this year as a result of Canada's corporate tax changes last year?
[Mr. Trudeau.1
Hort. John N. Turner (Minister of Finance): Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman's preamble is inaccurate.


Mr. Speaker, I think the minister's reply is inaccurate. However, leaving it at that, I should like him to say whether he is basing the report he is to make to parliament soon solely on the results of the questionnaire he sent to corporations last fall or has he received some other objective inputs in respect of that report and, if so, would he indicate from what sources?


Mr. Speaker, the report will be submitted and will stand on its own merits. Concurrently, I am, of course, constantly reviewing the tax picture in this country.


In view of the two-year write-off measure which was supposed to stimulate investment in new equipment and machinery, and also in view of the fact that investment in that area for manufacturing is only up by about 15 per cent this year compared with 20 per cent in the entire economy, and especially in light of the fact that corporate profits in manufacturing are up by 36 per cent, can the minister explain to the House whether or not these corporate tax write-offs have actually stimulated investment in new machinery and equipment?


Mr. Speaker, the latest figures on business capital intentions published by the Department of Industry. Trade and Commerce show business capital investment intentions for 1974 over 1973 up about 24 per cent to 25 per cent, and in the manufacturing and processing field up about 46 per cent. Whether these figures will be realized will depend on whether the economy, operating at or close to capacity, will be able to wend its way through the shortages in material and equipment that already exist. I might also say to the hon. gentleman that since one of the prime purposes of the corporate tax cuts and so-called write-offs was to stimulate jobs, he ought to refer to the fact that in 1973 there were 111,000 new jobs in manufacturing, which was 8,000 more than in the six previous years put together.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Finance.
In view of the fact that unemployment continues to ravage our society and the Canadian economy, that the Minister of Manpower and Immigration implemented a very valuable program, LIP, to create employment, and in view of the large number of promising projects that were presented but not accepted for lack of funds, can he tell the House whether he is willing to recommend that additional funds be made available to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration to enable him to accept a larger number of those projects which have been presented?
March 25, 1974


Mr. Speaker, I agree with the hon. member that the statistics on unemployment are not satisfactory, but it must also be recognized that, in 1973, thanks to our economic performance, 430,000 new jobs were created in Canada. I am constantly in touch with my colleague. If it is deemed advisable, his budget can certainly be increased: this program is under constant overall revision.


Mr. Speaker, I agree with the minister's excellent reply concerning the creation of many new jobs. However, there is a point on which I am in disagreement with him and which is the subject matter of my supplementary question.
Are the hon. Minister of Finance, together with the President of the Treasury Board and his other colleagues in the cabinet, considering the possibility of granting immediately additional credits to further increase the number of 430,000 new jobs which he just mentioned?


Mr. Speaker, my colleagues the hon. Minister of Manpower and Immigration and the President of the Treasury Board, and myself have received once again the very serious and convincing representations made by the hon. member.

'English)


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact there are only five days before the phase-out of the Veterans Land Act, would the Prime Minister, in the absence of the Minister of Veterans Affairs, indicate whether a definitive statement will be made this week on the extension of the deadline?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, 1 can give the hon. member the assurance that a decision will be announced this week. The Minister of Veterans Affairs has been delayed in transit to Ottawa. He will be here later today. Certainly in the course of the week he will be making an announcement.


In view of the fact that a statement will be made, and I thank the Prime Minister for his disclosure, will the Prime Minister assure the House that the statement will contain an indication of changes in the legislation to ensure that the deadline will be extended in line with other factors that are consistent with extension?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot give that assurance at this time mainly for the reason the decision has not been finalized yet in cabinet.


1 believe the hon. member for Qu'Appelle-Moose Mountain had a supplementary to the previous question and should be recognized now for that purpose.
Oral Questions TRANSPORT


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary to the question directed by the Leader of the Opposition to the Prime Minister. Am I right in assuming from the Prime Minister's answer that he accepts the view of the Minister of Transport that the railways are losing money by hauling Canadian wheat to export markets, based on information provided by the railways?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know if the minister said that or indeed if that is his position. I do know one of the difficulties the railways put forward is that with the frozen Crowsnest Pass rates they do not find it advantageous to move wheat. I cannot speak for them, of course, and I do not recall the minister having said that. I believe he is looking into the matter.


In view of the fact the minister did say that in the House last week and in view of the fact the Prime Minister used the same expression today, is the Prime Minister aware that over the last 40 years there never has been a document on record whereby the railways have been able to prove they have lost money carrying wheat under the Crowsnest Pass rates?


Mr. Speaker, I do not have the expertise of the hon. member.


Hear, hear!


I would not be able to talk about a period of 40 years. I am aware of the hon. member's point and it is one that I have discussed with my colleagues. It is an allegation that has been often repeated. I think I was careful in my previous answer to say the minister had not indicated he had documentary proof of it, but this is indeed a matter that he is looking into at this time.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. On March 19 the minister stated before the Standing Committee on Miscellaneous Estimates that the oil pricing proposal advocated by the federal government for the next quarter would be somewhere between $6 and $6.50 a barrel. Does the minister still hold to the view that after the freeze the price of crude will not rise higher than $6.50 a barrel for the next quarter?


Mr. Speaker, I do expect there will be an increase in price. The exact level to which it will go, as the hon. gentleman knows, is currently under active discussion with the provinces.

March 25, 1974
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister advise the House whether the Minister of Supply and Services is flying a kite on behalf of the government in his speech in Calgary today in which he suggests immediate exploitation of the tar sands by building 20 plants at a cost of $1 billion apiece, a massive exploitation in order to get the oil out of the ground before the price comes down?


Mr. Speaker, it is rather difficult to answer a question as to whether this is flying a kite. If the hon. member is asking whether that is a statement of government policy the answer is no, but if the hon. member is asking whether this is an idea which is being explored and looked at, certainly with my authorization, by the minister, the answer is yes. It is not government policy but it has not been rejected out of hand as something that would be unthinkable. It is something that would depend not only on the federal government but also on the provincial attitude.


Is it unthinkable to think that this minister in the cabinet shuffle which has been widely predicted will be moved-


Order, please.


-in order to carry out-


Order, please. May we have order, please. The hon. member for St. Catharines.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. In view of-I will not say lack of a transportation policy because the Prime Minister rejects the statement-the transportation policy of the government which at the moment denies the shipment of grain to both the east and the west-I will deal with the east in a moment-and in view of the present strike of the Seafarers International Union, has the government any plans to reduce the tolls and dockage charges along the St. Lawrence Seaway so that the shipping companies can be more efficient and so as to help them pay for the increased wages to which the SIU will be entitled?


Mr. Speaker, it seems to me that the question presumes a lot of things. As regards the SIU, the Minister of Labour is very much involved in attempting to ensure that a peaceful and just settlement will be reached. In so far as the rest of the question is concerned, it seems to be a representation on behalf of the shipping companies, and we will listen to the representation.
[Mr. Macdonald (Rosedale).J


Does the government not think that the reduction of tolls and dockage charges along the St. Lawrence Seaway system and a general refinancing will help to deflate the inflationary cost of moving goods through that system?


Here, too, it seems to me to be a representation which embodies an opinion. It is certain that the lower we can keep the costs of all systems the better it will be for the consumer, but for the taxpayer the consequences would perhaps be very much adverse. So we are trying to keep these two things in balance.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the widespread implications arising from the application to build the Mackenzie Valley gas pipeline, is it the government's intention to refer this matter to the Standing Committee on National Resources and Public Works in order that members of this House may familiarize themselves with all the factors that must be taken into consideration before a decision is made?


Mr. Speaker, this is a useful suggestion. One of the questions being raised is whether the House should consider the application before the facts are known or afterwards. Perhaps the hon. gentleman would prefer the former in terms of discussing the principles involved. I would be prepared to pursue that suggestion with the House leader.


In view of the fact the National Energy Board reports not to parliament but to cabinet and the cabinet can implement by order in council any order of the board without reference to parliament, may I ask the minister what input parliament is to have prior to the making of a decision which is of such vital importance to the people of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, it has been the custom in the past for decisions of the National Energy Board to be referred to the cabinet before they are made public. This government intends to depart from that in the sense that certainly on major decisions of this kind reports would be made public before they receive final cabinet judgment. In particular, with regard to the application concerning the Mackenzie Valley pipeline it would be the government's intention to lay the report before the House before a cabinet decision has been taken on it.


Would it be the government's intention to refer that report from the National Energy Board to the Standing Committee on National Resources and Public Works or will we be in the same position as we were with

the Columbia River Treaty which we were debating a year after it came into effect?


I would correct the hon. member with regard to the latter. He may recall that the Columbia River Treaty was fully considered by a committee of the House before it was ratified.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the minister responsible for the Wheat Board. Since both the Wheat Board and the minister have already indicated that coarse grains will be removed from the operations of the Wheat Board, will he afford an opportunity to all producers to indicate whether they approve of this action, as was done in the case of the rapeseed plebiscite, or will he use coarse grain producers as a sort of comfort station for the cattlemen who find themselves in a difficult situation because of the recent price drop in the cattle market?


Mr. Speaker, it is quite wrong to suggest that coarse grains are being removed from the jurisdiction of the Wheat Board. Indeed, the bulk of wheat, barley and oats which have been produced in Canada will not in any way be affected by any change of policy dealing with domestic feed grains. Only a very small proportion of feed grain is involved. The question of how best to market that feed grain in Canada involves not only producers but buyers of that grain across the country, and any attempt to determine the wishes of producers and consumers would have to involve both sides of the question. As a result, we have consulted widely with farm organizations across the country in order to attempt to have their views on the right steps to take to produce equity of pricing in Canada.


May I ask the minister whether producers of coarse grains will be afforded the opportunity to pool their resources or will they be forced to sell on the open market as has been indicated heretofore?


The government, of course, has announced the final position it will take with regard to the future of feed grain marketing in Canada. The August 3 proposals indicated a certain flexibility in the way in which sellers, owners of grain on the prairies, would sell their grain to other people. Of course, if that option becomes government policy, producers will be able to pool together so as to dispose of their grain.
5*5	*	*


Mr. C H. Whittaker (Okanagan Boundary): Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture. In
Oral Questions
view of the fact the minister said in a speech he made to the hog producers the other day in Ontario that the reason the federal government has cut farm taxes is so farmers can keep the extra income they are earning today to invest in expanding production, will he tell us how the federal government has cut farm taxes so the farmers can keep the extra income they are earning today?
Order, please. Perhaps the Chair should allow the minister to reply to the question but a question asked in those terms is, in my opinion, not in order. The hon. member is referring to a statement made outside the House, and it is a well-established procedure that a question should not be asked in those terms.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the President of the Treasury Board and is based on information made available to Mr. Hugh Segal. I should like to ask him why officials of his department, in a memorandum dated February 6, ordered other government departments and agencies to cut back by $6 million federal jobs for students and other young Canadians this year?


Mr. Speaker, for the summer student employment program the total funds provided are less in the current year than in the previous year by reason of the happily improved student employment situation.


Oh, oh!


When a choice had to be made as to the distribution among the various programs, a tentative allotment was made as between OFY and the direct employment program. Later consideration indicated the desirability of allocating more resources to OFY and less to the direct student employment program, one of the reasons being that with limited funds the cost per job is less in OFY than it is in direct employment. The tentative allocation made last fall was changed in favour of OFY and resulted in lesser sums of money for direct employment.


Would the minister tell the House why he and his department disguised the action he has just indicated by including in the estimates $6 million worth of items that he knew would not be spent in the way the estimates said they were going to be spent?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. gentleman will examine the chronology of the preparation and printing of the main estimates, I think he will see that the decision to reallocate was subsequent to the printing of those estimates.

March 25, 1974
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct this supplementary question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In light of the evidence today that the minister has not been frank in indicating the amount by which jobs for young Canadians was cut back this year, and in light of the refusal to let parliament see the assessment of last year's OFY program, will the minister give an undertaking now to refer the whole question of OFY and student employment immediately to the Standing Committee on Broadcasting, Films and Assistance to the Arts, or some other standing committee, and to make all documents available for a full investigation?


Mr. Speaker, as already indicated by my colleague, the President of the Treasury Board, the very premise of the question is incorrect. Therefore I think the rest of the question falls on that.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. Minister of Transport being absent from the House, I shall direct my question to the right hon. Prime Minister.
In view of the Annual Report recently published by the Com