Mr. Speaker, it was with a great deal of sadness that we learned on December 21 of the death of our long-time colleague, Wally Nesbitt, member for Oxford.
Through eight elections spanning 20 years he served as one of the best known and active members of this House, both in government and opposition. He represented a beautiful rural part of southwestern Ontario and, with his skill as a lawyer and politician, never failed to do battle in parliament for his constituents and their concerns on the farms and in the small towns.
However, the interests of the member for Oxford ranged beyond his own area, his province and even his country. For years he was deeply involved in promoting Canada's voice in international affairs and was a receptive listener to the difficulties and hopes of other nations regardless of their size or level of development.

More particularly, he was deeply involved in the United Nations and during the fifties he represented Canada as an important political figure and member of our delegations in New York and Geneva.
It is quite difficult, Mr. Speaker, to make a summary of 20 years of service. I can say that in all aspects of his parliamentary life Wally Nesbitt was active. Throughout the Parliament Buildings he was the friend of all, including members of all parties as well as the members of the Press Gallery and all employees.

Last fall he courageously returned to this House after a serious illness. He quickly resumed his role to the delight of his colleagues on both sides of the chamber.
It is with particular sadness that we pay tribute to him today and extend our sympathy to his family, his many friends and the constituents of Oxford.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to associate myself with the remarks of the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) in connection with Wally Nesbitt, the late hon. member for Oxford. The constituents of Oxford have lost a highly valued representative, we have lost a valued colleague, and certainly it was with the deepest of sadness that we learned of his death.
Wally Nesbitt, as the Prime Minister has indicated, sat in this House as the representative for Oxford since 1953. During those years he made a most vigorous and impressive contribution to the work of the House and, I might add, to the work of his party caucus.
In 1957 he became parliamentary assistant to the Prime Minister and vice-chairman of Canada's delegation to the twelfth General Assembly of the United Nations. In 1958 he was appointed parliamentary secretary to the Secretary of State for External Affairs and was chairman of Canada's delegation to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. In 1960 he was elected first vice-president of the United Nations General Assembly and frequently acted as chairman of that body. From 1963 to 1968 he was the external affairs spokesman for this party in the House and co-chairman of the House of Commons Committee on External Affairs. So Wally Nesbitt had an abiding interest in world affairs as well as in the concerns of our country and his constituency.
If I may speak personally for a moment, to me he was a very warm friend and a very capable associate. He undertook various difficult assignments within our own caucus organization. I have referred to his work in external affairs, but since 1968 he has been our spokesman from time to time for transport, for Indian and northern affairs and for science. As a chairman of committees he had a great capacity to organize the effective discharge of work. When he accepted the responsibility for doing something one knew that the responsibility would be discharged very well and very thoroughly.
We were all shocked by his sudden illness. We admired his fight to regain his health. He fought to regain his health so he could take his position again in the House. He showed great courage. We looked forward, Sir, to him regaining full health and full vigour but this was destined not to be. It was with a very heavy sense of personal loss that I and my colleagues learned of his sudden death.
We join with the Prime Minister in extending our sympathy to Wallace Nesbitt's mother and the other members of his family.


Mr. Speaker, my colleagues and I join with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition in paying tribute to our late friend and colleague, Wally Nesbitt. I am happy to underline the words of commendation and praise uttered by the Prime Minister. I believe it is very fitting that the Leader of the Opposition has taken this opportunity to place on the record such an excellent resume of Wally Nesbitt's work, including his contribution to his constituency, to the House of Commons and to the world scene on which he was privileged to play such an important part.
For a number of years our late colleague sat at this end of the Conservative Party benches which meant that we in this party got to know him very well. Although our ideas did not always run along parallel lines, we found him a very warm and genial friend. It was with real sadness that we learned of his illness some months ago and with still

January 3, 1974
Business of the House
greater sadness that we learned of his death just after we had recessed for the Christmas period. I think one of the finest tributes paid to Wallace Nesbitt was the tremendous number of people who were at the very impressive funeral service held for him in Woodstock, Ontario, on December 24.
Sir, I join with the others in asking that you extend our sympathy to Wally Nesbitt's mother, to his sister and through them to the other members of the family and all those who were near and dear to him.


Mr. Speaker, we all surely deplore the death of a member such as Mr. Nesbitt. So, on behalf of all members of our party, I extend to the family, the relatives and friends of the deceased our most heart-felt sympathy.
Mr. Speaker, I would also like to extend our special sympathy to the Progressive Conservative Party which within a few weeks has been twice afflicted by the death of one of its members. And I also take this opportunity to add that the example of a man such as Mr. Nesbitt is one which all members of this House can follow with no qualms of being mistaken.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 41(2), I wish, on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture, to table in both official languages a report on the 1973-74 Canadian fertilizer situation.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to advise the House that the first order of business today will be Bill C-245, and that at a quarter to five we propose to interrupt the proceedings, with the direction of the House, to deal with the divisions in connection with Bill C-203 concerning election expenses. Consultations have taken place and I understand that this procedure is agreeable. If that is the case, it might be ordered by the House.


Mr. Speaker, we are all in agreement with this procedure. Perhaps I might take this opportunity to point out that the discussions that have taken place have also included an arrangement whereby, instead of our having 13 recorded divisions, the number could probably be reduced to six or

seven. When five o'clock comes, perhaps this arrangement can be reported.


Is it so ordered?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that Canada is one of the few countries in the world without Saturday mail delivery, considering the growing delays in mail delivery generally, and in view of the fact that many small businesses rely heavily on daily mail service to an ever increasing degree, I ask leave of the House under the provisions of Standing Order 43 to move, seconded by the hon. member for Bran-don-Souris (Mr. Dinsdale):
That this government immediately consider reinstituting an all year round Saturday mail delivery service throughout Canada.


Hear, hear!


The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Under Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity, so the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity pursuant to Standing Order 43. The matter of urgent and pressing necessity is the continuing risk of oil spills in the Strait of Juan de Fuca. In view of the decision to transport Alberta crude oil from the port of Vancouver in foreign-owned vessels of questionable seaworthiness, thereby seriously eroding the credibility of this parliament's position in opposing the U.S. Alaska tanker route, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Skeena (Mr. Howard):
That the government forthwith cease this method of supplying the eastern market and forthwith replace this method of supply with emergency rail and highway transport until the completion of the Montreal pipeline.


The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under Standing Order 43, this motion
January 3, 1974

requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimity, so the motion cannot be put.


On the order: Motions:
December 13, 1973-Mr. Howard:
That the seventh report of the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development, presented to the House on Monday, December 10, 1973, be concurred in.
Mr. Speaker, I apologize for not catching your eye sooner. There is a notice of motion standing in my name seeking concurrence in the seventh report of the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development presented to the House on Monday, December 10. I seek the consent of the House to withdraw that motion.


Is there agreement?


Agreed.


The hon. member's notice of motion is withdrawn.
Order discharged and motion withdrawn.


Oral questions.


Mr. Speaker, before I put a question, perhaps you might permit me to say a word of congratulations to the Prime Minister and Mrs. Trudeau. In a different context the Prime Minister has frequently spoken about the importance of timing.


Oh, oh!


Certainly I must extend my congratulations to the Prime Minister and Mrs. Trudeau both in terms of timing and in terms of general felicitations. May I say in passing, Sir, that I share his joy to some extent because I had a second grandchild-


Hear, hear!
Oral Questions


-a granddaughter, born on January 1, a second westerner. Henceforth I hope to be treated with more respect by the western members in the House.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I would like to address a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce who indicated to the House on December 21 that he had posed certain questions to a foreign company proposing to take over the Macdonald Tobacco Company and that he was awaiting responses. Has the minister received specific answers with regard to that takeover and, if so, is he satisfied or not that it would have significant benefit for Canadians within the meaning of the legislation, whenever it is proclaimed?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the hon. member on becoming a grandfather for the second time around. I wish to tell him I have not yet received any answer to my queries put to the Reynolds Tobacco Company.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a supplementary question relating to the proposed takeover of Emco Corporation and the questions which I believe the minister directed to the Masco Corporation of Michigan. Has the minister received any responses to those questions and, if so, is he satisfied that this takeover would be of significant benefit to Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I met with the principals of the Masco Corporation yesterday. I put a number of propositions to them with respect to the whole question of significant benefit to Canada. They are considering their position, and I expect to hear from them very shortly.


In the present situation with the act not having been proclaimed, how does the minister propose to cope with these takeovers in the interregnum? He says he has received no reply with regard to the Macdonald Tobacco takeover. How does the minister propose to cope with it if the guidelines prove to be ineffective, as now seems to be the case? Is it the intention of the minister to proclaim that part of the legislation?


Mr. Speaker, we intend to proclaim the legislation just as fast as it is possible to do so. I do not
9004

January 3, 1974
Oral Questions
think, though, that I can accept the preamble to the hon. gentleman's question when he says that these guidelines have proved to be ineffective. They have not yet proved to be ineffective.


And not effective either.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Considering that a study, reported at length recently in the Montreal Gazette, revealed that the 19 per cent increase in food costs during the past year is likely to be continued throughout 1974, and that a good part of this inflation in food costs is due to the percentage mark-up technique of the food chains, will the minister inform the House if his department is taking steps to eliminate or control this pricing technique in a serious way?


Mr. Speaker, I have not had a chance to see that article yet. I will look at it and get back to the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, I see nothing has changed over the New Year period. I will switch to the Minister of Finance. In light of the fact that the same study revealed that advertising costs in food also account for a substantial part of the increase in the cost of food, amounting, for example, to some 43 per cent on Ajax cleanser and 18 per cent on Palmolive soap and so on, will the minister inform the House if the government intends to reduce substantially or remove entirely the amount that corporations can claim for tax purposes of revenues spent on advertising?


No, sir, the government does not intend to do so. As to a further review of that study, my colleague, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, will be looking into it in a deeper way. I might say to the hon. gentleman, however, that there is nothing in the study that precludes in any way, in answer to the assertion that advertising adds to costs, the argument that the wide proclaiming that goods are in competition with other goods may contribute to lower costs.


Mr. Speaker, I suggest that the minister read the study again. Considering that the profits of the food chains, also revealed in that study, were substantially above other sectors of the Canadian economy in the past year, would the minister inform the House if he is considering an excess profits tax to be particularly applicable to that sector of the economy?


No, Mr. Speaker, and if I were this would not be the time to announce it.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport.
Did he receive a request from the St. Lawrence Pilots Federation for extending the navigation season of the St. Lawrence River during this winter in order to achieve lower oil prices and, if so, what policy does the minister intend to follow in this respect?


Mr. Speaker, I received a telegram on this matter.


In the second part of my question I asked, Mr. Speaker, what policy the minister intends to follow in this respect?


Mr. Speaker, the technicians from my department are not convinced of the validity of the pilots association's claim.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address my question to the Minister of Transport. Now that the Canadian Transport Commission has finally taken action with regard to rail safety, even though it is negative action and years late, will the minister take positive steps not only to improve the safety record of Canada's railways but to allow them to take advantage of existing technology to better serve the people of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, there is equality in this chamber. I received this report at the same time as the hon. gentleman. I am anxious to read it and after that I may have some comments.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Solicitor General. I should like to ask the minister whether action is now being taken or is contemplated to change the uniforms and insignia of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police?


No, Mr. Speaker, no action has been taken to change the insignia or uniforms of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.


Does the minister say that no consideration is being given to this question and, in particular, to
January 3, 1974

the removal of the Crown from the insignia of non-commissioned officers up to the rank of staff sergeant-major?


No, Mr. Speaker, not to my knowledge. I have not heard anything about that. 1 might say that last summer the weight of cloth in the uniforms was changed in order to give members of the RCMP a lighter summer uniform, but it was the same uniform.


Removal of the Crown would not do that.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. I should like to ask the minister whether there are any new developments in the search for four missing men in northern Saskatchewan as the result of the crash of a plane which originated from La Ronge?


Mr. Speaker, this search has been continued intensively. About half an hour ago I heard that the site of the crash had been located, but we have not got confirmation yet. A helicopter is travelling to the site now.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
On December 21, I asked the minister whether he was considering the possibility of an inquiry on violence in junior hockey in Canada. Since he replied affirmatively concerning the possibility of such an inquiry, would he say whether he has met with Canadian Amateur Hockey Association authorities and can he say when he shall get the report of this inquiry and report to the House?


Mr. Speaker, I have been unable so far to meet with representatives of the CAHA. I hope I can do so in the next few days. I shall then report to the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
Oral Questions
Given the fact that the chairman of the Economic Council of the United States has now said that the United States government is expecting the rate of growth of their economy to be not more than 4 per cent and that the unemployment rate will rise to 6 per cent, can the minister tell us what effect this will have on Canadian exports to the United States during the forthcoming year?


Mr. Speaker, of course this is something we are watching on a very close basis. We recognize, as does the hon. member, all the uncertainties involved in this situation, but we think it will be a very good year.


Does the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce have members of his department working precisely on estimating what the possible impact of a change of that dimension in the economy of our trading partner will be on our economy?


Mr. Speaker, we have it under constant and continuing review.


Will the minister table in the House of Commons within the next week the results of such studies so that the Canadian people may have some idea of what the Canadian government thinks about the economic situation?


Mr. Speaker, we have it under constant and continuing review.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources if a decision has been made yet to provide some relief to the consumers of the five eastern provinces who are suffering from the energy situation, especially in the area of home heat? If such a decision has been made, will it be announced before the meeting of first ministers at the end of January?


Mr. Speaker, no such decision has been taken at the moment, although that will obviously be the primary question for discussion at the first ministers' conference later this month.


Mr. Speaker, may I address my question to the Minister of Labour. In view of the present difficulties in rail transport, the shortage of feed grain supplies in eastern Canada and the difficulties that are being experienced in the Edmonton yards and in
26695-57}

January 3, 1974
Oral Questions
the lower mainland of British Columbia, can the minister advise how soon the Hall report will be available and whether or not it is possible that his recommendations or decisions will be tabled prior to the presently proposed recess of parliament?


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately I did not hear the last two or three words of the hon. member's question, although I believe I got the general purport. I would advise, as I have advised before, that the report of the hon. Mr. Justice Emmett Hall should be available to the parties and, for that matter, very shortly thereafter to the public and every hon. member, about the middle of this month.


In connection with that matter may I ask, in view of the minister's answer, whether we will also have the report of Dr. Deutsch with respect to pensions? Is that to be made at the same time? Can we have that report before parliament recesses so that we may have an idea of what is going to happen to pensions so far as railway workers are concerned?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member is aware, that report was to be submitted to the hon. Mr. Justice Hall for his consideration, so I imagine its contents would be made available at the same time as the Hall report itself, probably as an appendix.


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources whether he has met with the Minister of Energy of Kuwait or any other Arabian country with respect to a reported offer to supply 360,000 barrels of crude petroleum to Canada at a price considerably less than what Canada or agents representing our country are paying now for Venezuelan crude petroleum?


Mr. Speaker, I have not had a meeting.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources answered my question in such inaudible terms that I felt he must have some knowledge. Has the minister any knowledge? Has there been any offer of such a sale to him, to his department or to any other minister of the government, particularly the Minister of Supply and Services, to the knowledge of the minister?


Mr. Speaker, there have been a number of proposals put by various of the eastern hemisphere oil producers to the officials of my department, and they have been investigated. I think I would have to examine particularly with them whether this particular proposition the hon. gentleman has mentioned was among those and, if so, what the exact terms of it were.


The Chair recognizes the hon. member for Portneuf.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the hon. Minister of State for Urban Affairs.
Since the enforcement of Bill C-133 would alleviate in part the housing problem which remains a major issue in this country, could the minister advise the House whether he intends to make a statement in the near future concerning the relevant agreements reached with the provinces?


Mr. Speaker, I made a statement yesterday indicating that we have agreements with regard to the neighborhood improvement program, which I take it the hon. member is referring to, either agreements or agreements in principle, with nine of the provinces, and that just before Christmas I had very useful and friendly discussions with the minister from the province of Quebec in Quebec City. I am optimistic that an agreement can be concluded at an early date.


I wish to direct a supplementary to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs.
When agreements were reached with the provinces, did he ask them to indicate clearly the amounts coming from the federal government for the construction of homes, including those for the aged?


Mr. Speaker, the agreements to which my answer applied refer only to the neighborhood improvement program. There are no agreements relative to old age housing or senior citizens' housing. They are made project by project with each province.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. As the latest report of the OECD, of which Canada is a member, very strongly criticizes this country for not having a comprehensive anti-inflation policy, can the minister advise the House if the government is in the process of preparing such a policy now, and may we expect to hear it announced in the House in the very near future?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. gentleman is referring to reports of an alleged impending report. If he will refer to the last published report in December, he will not find that type of analysis of the Canadian position.
January 3, 1974


As the minister knows very well, I am referring to the report that will be produced very soon. He knows all about it. I ask him the following supplementary question. As the government obviously is not in the process of preparing such a program, may we expect that in the near future we will have some kind of announcement from the government as to the economic stand of the government on all these matters, and can that be expected in the near future?


Mr. Speaker, that will be done at the first reasonable opportunity. As a matter of fact, I hope to have occasion this afternoon, in dealing with the export tax bill, to relate my remarks also to some of the economic underpinnings, both international and domestic.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In light of the fact Canadians are concerned about foreign takeovers, particularly in western Ontario, and in view of the reaction in regard to the two companies previously mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition, can the minister inform the House whether a deadline was set for replies to be received to his questions and whether there would be significant benefit to Canadians as a result of these takeovers?


Mr. Speaker, no deadline has been set but I expect to hear very shortly from both parties.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development in connection with his special responsibility for national historic sites. In view of the proposed private sale of the residence of the late Right Hon. Louis St. Laurent, can the minister advise whether his department is planning to enter into negotiations to ensure that this residence will be preserved as an historic site and thus do honour to this distinguished former Prime Minister?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I do not know which of two residences the hon. member is talking about.
Oral Questions
There is the residence of the former prime minister in Quebec City and the house where he was born in Compton. The Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada recommended mainly the residence in Compton, not the one in Quebec City.


I thank the minister for his interest in this matter. In view of the difficulties encountered with regard to the residence of this late Prime Minister and the residence in Hamilton of the late Right Hon. Lester B. Pearson, is the minister considering establishing a special unit within his department to ensure that residences of former Prime Ministers, both those deceased and those still with us, will be preserved as national historic sites throughout this country?


Mr. Speaker, dedicating buildings for commemoration purposes comes under the jurisdiction of the Historic Sites and Monuments Board. This is an independent board that advises the department and which has developed directives concerning the residences of former Canadian prime ministers.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has or is the Department of External Affairs or the government of which the minister is a member in any way negotiating with the kidnappers of a person known as Jasper Cross for their return to Canada to face kidnapping or other criminal charges?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister assure the House that under no circumstances will these kidnappers be allowed to return to Canada to face criminal charges with the knowledge of the government, considering that they have already been given the benefit of making one choice?


Mr. Speaker, I really have not considered this question in depth but, if they do come back to Canada on the understanding they will face criminal charges, I cannot at first blush see anything reprehensible about that.

January 3, 1974
Oral Questions TRANSPORT


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In view of the serious implications of the report made yesterday by the Canadian Transport Commission, will the minister, after he and his officials have had an opportunity to look at the report which they only received yesterday, make a statement in the House as to how long it will take for the department to make a full study of the report and also advise what measures his department will take to implement the recommendations of the commission?


Mr. Speaker, I actually received the report just this morning. I originally read of it in the newspapers. The department is studying the report immediately and will make recommendations to me. As this is of public interest, I am sure the report will be tabled and the hon. member will be informed of what steps we are going to take.


In view of the extreme reluctance of the railways in the past to make public any information about rail accidents, their causes and who was at fault, will the minister give special consideration to the possibility of instructing the railways, the Transport Commission and his department to make all information that comes to these bodies public so that proper steps can be taken to alleviate this condition?


Mr. Speaker, I will do what I can. However, I am sure the hon. member knows I am quite restricted in the kind of orders I can give to the CTC. If ever the House and the government decide to change that, maybe I could be more precise.


Mr. Speaker, would the Minister of Transport indicate whether the deferment of the implementation of the airport head tax means that the government is seriously considering the alternative of raising the user charges to commercial air carriers at appropriate airports?


No, Mr. Speaker, it does not mean that.


Will the minister assure the House that if the tax is implemented as originally proposed there will not be a further major increase in the originally announced figure of $2.80, as has been suggested by the head of the Canadian Air Transport Association?


Mr. Speaker, as far as the Department of Transport is concerned, we do not expect another increase.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Finance. If the new tax legislation is yielding hundreds of millions of dollars of additional revenue over and above that forecast by the minister at one stage and the minister has an abundance of revenues, why is it necessary to institute this tax at airports at all?


Order, please. The question as asked is argumentative. It is debate. The Chair will recognize the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich and then the hon. member for Rimouski.


Mr. Speaker,
I should like to ask a supplementary of the hon. Minister of Transport.
I should like to ask him whether he and his colleagues are considering the possibility of approving a special charge, 5 per cent for instance, for short flights such as between Victoria and Vancouver rather than insisting on a single levy which lays a heavy financial burden on passengers using such flights?


Mr. Speaker, for the information of the hon. member, we had the choice between two formulas: a fixed charge which would protect the people at either end of the country or a percentage charge which would naturally protect short flight customers. Unfortunately, we have found no way of using both formulas at once and have decided to protect people who live far from the large centres, who would unfortunately pay considerable amounts under the percentage formula.


Mr. Speaker, with your leave, I wish first to congratulate most sincerely Mrs. Trudeau and the right hon. Prime Minister for the excellent timing of the birth of their two sons. Considering that some provinces, especially Ontario, have expressed the wish to return to saving time, does the Prime Minister intend to adopt a standard policy for the whole of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, first let me thank the hon. member, the leader of the opposition and other hon. members for their good wishes towards my wife and myself. We thank them most sincerely.


Hurrah for Alexander!


Yes, Mr. Speaker, we have chosen an excellent name, that of Alexander, but-
January 3, 1974



Alexandre, spelled the French way, but I am sure the origins are the same. The hon. member has sometimes indicated that I am not a very good House of Commons man. He might be prepared to concede we are a good House of Commons couple, having planned this thing in such a way that it would not interrupt parliamentary proceedings.
In reply to the hon. member, Mr. Speaker, I would say that it would, in fact, be desirable for all the provinces to agree on the same formula, that there might be as little disparity as possible in the time chosen; however, the federal government is unable to impose it upon them. I willingly suggest, however, following the hon. member's question, that if the provinces wish to consult each other in this regard, the federal-provincial conference to be held within a few weeks would offer them an ideal occasion of doing so.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Agriculture may I direct this question to the Prime Minister. It is based on the paper tabled today on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture dealing with the Canadian fertilizer situation. It says, in effect, that the price that Canadian farmers will be expected to pay will be higher that last year but less than the price in the United States. Since farmers are businessmen and are certainly entitled to more specific information than this, will the Prime Minister encourage the Minister of Agriculture to make a statement in the House on motions within the next few days on the price of fertilizer and on what government policy may be if price increases prove to be more than reasonable?


Mr. Speaker, I would be very happy to convey the suggestion of the hon. member to the Minister of Agriculture, who is presently in Charlottetown meeting with members of the provincial cabinet.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Has the government been advised by the United States government of a specific formula for the reduction of U.S. petroleum exports? If so, has it made any response to the
Oral Questions
United States government proposals, particularly in light of the British Columbia situation?


Mr. Speaker, as I indicated in the committee this morning, the United States administration through Mr. Simon's office has indicated the proposed intention to put export controls on petroleum products on the basis of historic use in 1972. They have asked users, including Canadian users who take the products by way of export, to express their reactions to this proposal, and we as a government would expect to be responding in due course.


Is the hon. member rising on a point of order?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I am sorry to interrupt the question period but following upon the order made earlier this day that certain questions are to be put at five o'clock may I say I have not had a chance to contact committee members and I should like to inform them that the national resources committee will be holding its meeting this afternoon at 3.30.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources who said before the recess that he had no objection to tabling in the House the letter from the government of Canada to the Syncrude company or to its principals relating to future pricing policies. Is the minister now prepared to table that letter?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I would be prepared to table it. I apologize to the hon. gentleman; I have not brought it with me today, but I will see whether the translation has been made and I will be glad to lay it on the table either tomorrow or Monday.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the confusion across the country concerning use of daylight saving time to conserve energy, and in view of the further confusion of some provinces accepting this measure and others rejecting it, would the minister make a statement urging the provinces to stay together so that Canadians will not be subjected to communication and transportation scheduling difficulties across the land?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. gentleman will recall, we have expressed the view, which I think is also held by Ontario Hydro, that in terms of home heating oil daylight saving time is not an energy conserving measure.

January 3, 1974
Oral Questions
I will be glad to take the suggestion under notice, but traditionally this has been a matter of provincial jurisdiction, as the hon. gentleman will recall from the practice in his own province.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. Can the minister say whether the necessary steps have now been taken so that veterans who are receiving both old age security and the guaranteed income supplement on the one hand, and war veterans allowance on the other, will receive the cost of living increases that take place in both those payments this month?


The answer is yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs related to a question asked him approximately three weeks ago dealing with the proposal in the United States to build the Garrison dam project which has quite far-reaching implications for Manitoba. Has the minister received word from the United States on whether or not the U.S. government is going ahead with the project? If he has not received word, why has there been no communication between Canada and the United States on this matter?


Mr. Speaker, the House will recall that I did mention that a note had been transmitted to the United States setting out our concerns in this matter. We have not yet received a reply but I am given to understand that we may expect one this month.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has the International Joint Commission been seized of this problem, and is it negotiating directly with the United States counterparts so that this danger to Canadian boundary waters might be averted?


Mr. Speaker, the International Joint Commission is not automatically involved in this matter. We have chosen for the time being to deal with it at an intergovernmental level. The other question can remain open for consideration.


Mr. Speaker, I have a short supplementary. Would the minister assure the House, and consequently the country, that if the House of Commons is not sitting when the minister or his department receives word, it will be made public as soon as possible so that all interested parties may know what negotiations have taken place?


Mr. Speaker, I will certainly give that very serious consideration, but I would hesitate to give an outright commitment until I have had an opportunity to see the reply that we receive.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State. I wonder whether the Secretary of State would inform the management of the CBC that many Canadians would like a chance to judge the merits of a television play by Mordecai Richler without having the CBC make that judgment for them?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I am receiving all kinds of advice as to my answer. Yes, I would be pleased to pass on that representation, but I can assure the hon. member that this matter is now being reviewed by the CBC.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In view of the absolute confusion and indescribable tardiness of the minister's department in announcing LIP grants for 1974 and extensions of 1973 grants, to such a point that British Columbia has announced it is opting out of the program, can the minister inform the House what he intends to do to clean up this mess in his department?


Mr. Speaker, with the exception of a very few, all LIP approvals which will be made have now been announced. Some 3,234 applications have been approved involving some 602,000 man-weeks of work. The last few dozen or so pending are subject to some controversy which will be cleaned up very shortly.
[Mr. Macdonald (Rosedale).J
January 3, 1974


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In view of increased oil tanker traffic from Vancouver destined for the east coast, can the minister advise the House whether there has been any addition to personnel and equipment in order to deal effectively with any oil spill that may take place on the west coast?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know whether there has been any increase in personnel. I know that all oil spills have been handled quite rapidly, but I will get the information required by the hon. member.


In view of the fact that the existing number of men and the equipment available were unable effectively to contain a minor oil spill several months ago in Vancouver harbour, can the minister assure the House that oil spill prevention and containment measures on the west coast will be substantially improved immediately?


Mr. Speaker, I do not accept the first part of the question but perhaps we can find another opportunity to discuss this. I think we have all the men and equipment necessary to handle oil spills.


Order, please. We are running short of time. The Chair will recognize the hon. member for Vancouver South on a supplementary and then the hon. member for St. Catharines, followed by the hon. member for Algoma.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that on December 11 Mr. Allard, public relations officer for the Ministry of Transport, said the only equipment available on the west coast is that which was available at the time of the Erawan-Sun Diamond spill in the fall, which was ineffective, I ask the minister in all seriousness whether he will consider this matter and come back to the House in a few days and assure us that something will be done in order that we will be capable of dealing with a major oil spill which might easily occur in view of the increased traffic.


Mr. Speaker, I will look into the matter, and if there are any shortcomings they will be corrected right away.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Having regard to the requirements respecting transportation of oil by tanker down the B.C. coast, and the fact that Canada is now shipping oil from Vancouver to Portland, Maine, what standards are we requiring for oil tankers going down the U.S. coast, through the Panama Canal and up
Oral Questions
the east coast, particularly in view of the fact that Cape Hatteras is such a dangerous point? Are we requiring the same standards in respect of vessels using the U.S. coastline as we demanded in respect of the B.C. coastline?


Mr. Speaker, we have to transport oil to Portland. As yet, no tanker from Vancouver has gone up the St. Lawrence. When those tankers have to face such dangerous conditions as ice, we will doubtless have to reach decisions in each case individually because at the present time there is no fleet of tankers available for transporting oil.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The Minister of Transport failed to listen to my question. The Canadian government has made certain representations to the United States government as to the safety standards it will require in respect of oil tankers going from Alaska to Cherry Point. I ask the minister whether we are requiring the same safety standards in respect of oil tankers going from Vancouver down the U.S. coast, through the Panama Canal and up the east coast of the United States to Portland, Maine, particularly in view of the fact that Cape Hatteras is one of the world's most dangerous points of navigation. Do we require the same standards-


Order, please. I assume the minister has heard the question.


Mr. Speaker, I listened to the question. We require exactly the same standards for all ships sailing under the same conditions.


Oh, oh!


What does that mean?


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources who was chosen by the Globe and Mail as man of the year for 1973.


Hear, hear!


It is obvious that all hon. members want to congratulate the minister and also the Globe and Mail on its choice.


Oh, oh!


Do the recent sales of Candu reactors to Argentina and South Korea include an understanding that Canadian uranium will be provided to fuel these reactors?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. gentleman for his kind reference. In connection with the sale to
9012

January 3, 1974
Business of the House
Argentina, initially Canadian fuel will be used, although the option remains for that country to use Argentine uranium. In connection with the South Korean sale, this will be entirely Canadian uranium.


Mr. Speaker, my question might be supplementary to the original question about the movement of oil from the port of Vancouver. I direct it to the Prime Minister. On the matter of moving oil by tanker from west coast ports through the Panama Canal to the east coast, was the Minister of the Environment enunciating government policy when he said that any oil tanker used to transport oil from west coast ports to any port on the east coast would be required, at the very least, to meet the standards for oil tankers adopted at the recent IMCO conference in London? Was he stating government policy when he made that announcement?


Mr. Speaker, I would have to check with the minister as to the exact terms of the announcement, but on the face of it the minister was certainly speaking as the minister responsible for the environment in putting before not only his colleagues in parliament but the people of Canada his express wishes as Minister of the Environment.


Order, please. The hon. member will be recognized on a last supplementary question, after which the Chair will call orders of the day.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a supplementary question to the Minister of Transport in respect of the response just made by the Prime Minister. Inasmuch as it is government policy that these stringent standards be met, why is the Department of Transport not following up this matter and requiring ships moving oil in and out of the port of Vancouver to meet the standards set out in this government policy?


Orders of the day.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the usual Thursday question about the order of business, if this is the proper stage of the proceedings to do so. I ask the government House leader what we can look forward to in the next few days, even though we do have some idea of the business, particularly in respect of the wiretap bill for which we have indicated our support.


As I indicated earlier today, Mr. Speaker, the business before the House is Bill C-245, an act to impose a charge on the export of crude oil. That item

will be kept before the House for the time allotted and it is completed. Hopefully, at that point we will be able to again give consideration to the oil allocation bill. I have not yet reached any conclusion as to when the wiretap bill might be brought back before the House, but I would be happy to consider with hon. members opposite ways that might make it possible to deal with it quickly.


Mr. Speaker, in respect of the order of business for the coming days, and in particular in respect of the last point to which the government House leader referred, may I ask whether the government is considering, as a means of saving time, substituting for the notice that is now on the order paper in the name of the Minister of Justice a notice simply rejecting the Senate amendment to the wiretap bill so that the House can reaffirm the position it took when the bill was before this House?


No, Mr. Speaker, the government is not considering that point at the moment.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order in relation to the last question I put to the Minister of Transport who was a bit slow in rising to his feet although it seemed he was rising to reply to the question. I see he has now disappeared, so perhaps the point of order has no validity, but certainly the minister should be required to reply to the question as to why this policy of the government is not being followed.


that Bill C-245, to impose a charge on the export of crude oil from Canada, to impose an oil export tax under the Excise Tax Act and to allocate certain of the revenues derived from the oil export tax, be read the second time and referred to committee of the whole.
He said: Mr. Speaker, first of all I want to use this occasion to wish you and the members of the House a Happy New Year. I wish Your Honour every good fortune in presiding over the affairs of this legislature. I noted the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Stanfield) in congratulating the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) and Madame Trudeau on the birth of their second son. He mentioned the question of timing. It only illustrates that this government can do almost anything, Mr. Speaker. I do not take anything away from the notable achievements of the Leader of the Opposition in having become a grandfather during the recess. All I can say is that the difference between the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister is just one of attitude.


I don't get that, John.
January 3, 1974


You will have to think about it. I am sorry the Secretary of State (Mr. Faulkner) has left the chamber, because he also celebrated a very important event in his life: he became married. I am sure we all wish him well.


Hear, hear!


Without any reflection at all upon the House leader, I want to say to the hon. member for Peterborough, the Secretary of State, that congratulations are due to him upon finally joining the human race.
In rising at this time