Mr. Speaker, there has been discussion amongst the House leaders about the desirability of proceeding as quickly as possible with Bill C-48 to amend the Railway Act. In order to expedite consideration of that bill, it has been agreed-and I hope it will be made an order of the House-that tonight at 9.30 the committee of the whole will rise and report progress on Bill C-49, the House will then take under consideration Bill C-48 and the debate thereon will be continued at this sitting until the conclusion of second reading. It is also agreed that there shall be no debate on the adjournment motion if the debate on second reading of Bill C-48 extends beyond 10 p.m. I would remind the House, Mr. Speaker, that there is agreement that there shall be, at most, five speakers on Bill C-48.


Mr. Speaker, as the government House leader said, there have been discussions and the proposal is agreeable to us. We want to remind the hon. gentleman that the opposition is always prepared to assist the government in proceeding with its legislative program, under proper circumstances.


Hear, hear!


Agreed. [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, we have agreed to this arrangement, but we do trust that the debate will not extend too far beyond ten o'clock this evening.


Is it agreed by all members that it be ordered that the House proceed at 9.30 p.m. along the lines and the terms outlined by the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Sharp)?


Agreed.


It is so ordered.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 41(2) I should like to lay on the table copies of the document "Opportunities for Choice", in both official languages, that was agreed upon at the federal-provincial ministers' meeting last December.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of pressing and urgent necessity with respect to the critical unemployment situation in the Canadian automotive industry and, in particular, with respect to the Canadian automotive parts industry. I move, seconded by the hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby (Mr. Broadbent):
That the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce make immediate provision to increase the percentage of automobile components made in Canada for Canadian-made cars and trucks.


The House has heard the terms of the motion proposed under Standing Order 43. It cannot be debated without consent. Is there consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to propose a motion under Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. This matter concerns published statements by a self-styled petroleum landman who resides and has an office in Ottawa and a post office drawer address in Calgary, Alberta. These statements by this oil executive allege that the Prime Minister of Canada (Mr. Trudeau) and the Minister of Finance (Mr. Turner) consulted him about the government's oil policy, that he has influence with the cabinet and a voice direct to the

Finance
highest levels of government in Ottawa. If there is consent, Mr. Speaker, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Towers):
That the government take immediate steps to apply the appropriate provisions of the Income Tax Act to the financial affairs of one Earl Adam Hastings.


The House has heard the terms of the motion proposed. Pursuant to Standing Order 43 it cannot be debated without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There not being unanimous consent the motion cannot be debated at this time.


Mr. Speaker, under the terms of Standing Order 43, I request unanimous consent of the House to deal with an urgent matter requiring immediate action.
Considering that the Canadian public debt, in 1975, will exceed $55 billion, that servicing this debt will cost almost $3 billion in the same year-over $8 million a day-and that this debt is an increasingly heavy burden which the Canadian taxpayers are no longer able to carry, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Lambert):
That this House study the possibility of setting up the financial mechanisms required to finance the paying off of the public debt through new credits issued by the Bank of Canada on the guarantee of the overall real wealth of the country, this, with a view to freeing Canadian taxpayers from the burden the public debt represents.


The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under the terms of Standing Order 43, the motion requires unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimity?


Yes.


No.


As there is not unanimous consent, the motion cannot be put.


Under the terms of Standing Order 43, I request unanimous consent of the House to move a motion.
In view of the fact that hockey is Canada's national sport and that professional hockey has become almost exclusively American, as far as the National Hockey League is concerned since only three Canadian teams out of 18 are competing in it; in view of the fact that, a division of the World Hockey Association is exclusively Canadian and that this division is the most stable of the association; and considering that the calibre of play in those two leagues is almost identical, it is deplorable to find that CBC is exclusively concerned with NHL publicity and that no World Hockey Association's game is televised on the national network. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Richmond (Mr. Beaudoin):
That this House enjoin the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation not to discriminate any more against the WHA and to televise this league's games, particularly those involving the Canadian division.


The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under the terms of Standing Order 43, the motion requires unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Yes.


No.


As there is not unanimous consent, the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to request leave of the House to present a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity pursuant to Standing Order 43.
Last night the Ministry of Transport ordered Winnipeg International Airport closed from 5.15 p.m. to 7.25 p.m., because of dangerous snow conditions on the runways. At approximately 6.45 p.m. Air Canada flight 253, a Lockheed L 1011 from Toronto, landed at the closed airport. In view of the fact that Air Canada spokesmen have stated unequivocably to broadcasting station CKY of Winnipeg that there was absolutely no problem with the aircraft, and in view of the potentially disastrous situation that this suggests, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Dauphin (Mr. Ritchie):
That this House does instruct the Minister of Transport to launch an immediate investigation into this matter and report the findings to the House at the earliest possible date.
February 18, 1975


The motion has been proposed under Standing Order 43 and therefore cannot be moved without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Order, please. There not being unanimous consent the motion cannot be moved at this time.


Joe Guay said no.


I said yes.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I request the unanimous consent of this House to discuss an important matter requiring immediate attention.
The strike of Royal Canadian Mint employees has caused a coin shortage which is getting worse every day. Several businesses are already unable to complete transactions because they do not have enough change to give back to the buyers. We know that coins are "the poor people's money" and that the poor are the main victims of this shortage. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Lambert):
That this House instruct the President of the Treasury Board (Mr. Chretien) to report to this House on the protracted conflict between Royal Canadian Mint employees and the government to bring this conflict to an end as soon as possible so that the population may obtain the coins required to make normal business transactions.


Order, please. The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under the terms of Standing Order 43, the motion requires unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Yes.


No.


As there is not unanimous consent, the motion cannot be put.


for leave to introduce Bill C-378, respecting women in industry.


Explain.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, this bill will require contractors tendering for government business to file a statement describing in detail, as set out in the bill, the status of women working in their firms. This will create certain competition among firms to improve the status of women and produce higher standards than are obtained by laws which set minimum requirements.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. Would I be in order if I asked the hon. member if the bill will cover that great body of contracts for which there are no tenders?


Hear, hear!


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. No one in this House would dispute the right and propriety of the government and the National Energy Board to regulate export of natural resources, particularly gas to the United States. In view of reports that have been circulating recently, more particularly in the press today, that the United States government might make serious retaliations if any major changes are made on long-term contracts for the export of natural gas, have any special representations, either of a formal or informal nature, been made to the Canadian government stating that in fact the United States government will take such retaliatory action?


Before responding, may I welcome back the hon. member from his illness. I hope we will see a lot more of him.


Hear, hear!


With regard to the report today that there have been allegations of statements by State Department spokesmen [DOT] of retaliation against Canada if there is a reduction in gas exports, I will preface my remarks by reminding the House that the National Energy Board is engaged in a hearing on precisely this question. In any response I make, I want to avoid in any way prejudicing that hearing.
Having said this, I can assure the hon. member that in my meetings to date with senior members of the administration and of the Congress I received no such representations. There has been concern about gas supplies but no suggestion of retaliation and no official representations to

February 18, 1975
Oral Questions
the Government of Canada in this regard. I think I can say to the House that on the basis of our good friendship with the United States over the years we shall do our best to assist them in any such problem, but perhaps this willingness to be of assistance might be diminished rather than increased by any suggestion of retaliation.


Is it the position taken by the government that the long term contracts which have been signed with respect to natural gas could be the subject of renegotiation?


I should probably not give a legal opinion, but the terms under which the gas is exported from Canada are under the National Energy Board Act, and are that the gas should be surplus to the reasonable requirements of the Canadian market and the National Energy Board Act does provide for the amendment of any such permit. This would have the effect of amending the contract by force majeure.


In the course of the meetings which are going on at the present time, has the question of long term contracts for natural gas been an important factor?


United States officials have been aware of the extensive board hearings which have been going on and have expressed, in general terms, concern about the supply of gas to the U.S. market, but of course they recognize that the question remains hypothetical until the board has made its determination and the government in turn has made its decision.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources on the same general subject. Has he now had an opportunity to inform himself as to the extent to which our export of crude oil will fall below imports in the latter part of 1975-the projected figure is some 200,000 barrels a day, as I understood the minister to indicate some months ago? If this prediction is unchanged, is it now the policy of the government to accept this situation and the very large consequent deficit in our balance of payments which will follow, or does the government have any plans to offset this effect?


As the hon. gentleman knows there is a level now set of 800,000 barrels a day being exported to the United States. I suggested at the time of publishing the Energy Board report that the government would consider moving down to a level of 650,000 barrels a day as of July 1, subject to consultation with the provinces. There has been discussion at the official level with the provinces. Because of its fiscal consequences, this will be a matter to come before the first ministers in April. It will depend very much on the outcome of that meeting whether the

level remains at 800,000 barrels a day. However, subject to any sudden or unforeseen increase in imports, I would say the account should remain roughly in balance.


May I ask, then, what is the intention of the government, subject to consultation with the provinces? Is it to seek the approval of the provincial governments to reduce exports to some 650,000 barrels a day by mid-1975? Is this still the policy as it seemed to be when the minister last spoke on the subject?


Having set the figure of
650,000	barrels a day, naturally, we will discuss it with the two provinces most affected before making a final decision.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the serious effects of the continuing strike of public service employees, I wonder whether the negotiations are continuing and, if so, whether there is a basis to the claim of the employees that most of those who were receiving wages when collective bargaining started a few years ago comparative to the wages paid for similar jobs in private industry are now being offered in many cases an increase which will bring their pay to not much more than half the pay of employees in private industry.


My
answer to the first part of the question is that I hope the parties will meet again tomorrow. We are willing to sit down at the negotiating table and try to come to an agreement. As for the second part of the question, I do not think the allegation is true.


I wonder whether the minister, if the negotiations are not brought to an amicable conclusion in the next few days, would make a statement in the House or table for members of the House the analysis done by the pay research bureau comparing wages paid to these employees with wages paid to workers doing similar work in the private sector of the economy.


Mr. Speaker, I think that it would not be advisable to start negotiations in the House of Commons. I think that those people have the right to strike, a right which has been given to them by the parliament of Canada and which we respect.


Hear, hear!
February 18, 1975


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Following a decision made by a Boston jury that Dr. Kenneth Edelin is guilty of involuntary manslaughter for the destruction of a foetus during a legal abortion, does the government intend to use this verdict to amend the provisions of the Criminal Code as concerns abortion in our country?


Mr. Speaker, may I take notice of that question.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Following his recent statement that efforts should be undertaken in order to conserve energy, has the minister had discussions with the automotive industry to recall certain vehicles that do not meet a certain standard of performance, such as for example, half ton pick-ups which use gasoline at the rate of seven or eight miles to a gallon, which is not a good performance?


Personally I have not, although my officials have been and are in the process of contacting industry with regard to ways in which industry can be of assistance. With regard to the automobile industry in particular, given the parallel goals that the United States administration has had over a period of years, we would seek to direct the auto industry to less wasteful means of propulsion systems in automobiles, thereby significantly conserving energy.


May I ask the minister whether discussions are also being held with the automotive industry to encourage them to design anti-pollution devices in such a way that they may be turned off, particularly in rural areas where pollution is not a problem, because these devices are great gas consumers.


Mr. Speaker, we recognize the problem and in conjunction with my colleague, the Minister of the Environment, we will be pursuing that question as well.
Oral Questions PUBLIC SERVICE


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the President of the Treasury Board with respect to the negotiations that are going on. I wonder whether or not he accepts the Acting Prime Minister's statement of policy yesterday, in as much as he rejected the comment of the Minister of Finance with respect to the COLA clause, and whether the inclusion of the COLA clause in the negotiations is acceptable to the Treasury Board.


Order please. I do not want to restrict the hon. member's right to ask a question, but I have great difficulty in relating that question as a supplementary one to the question on gas consumption.


Mr. Speaker, I did try to catch your eye with respect to a question asked by the hon. member for Winnipeg North. Mine was supplementary to his.


Mr. Speaker, I will just reply by saying that it would not be advisable to negotiate in the House of Commons.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Transport and it relates to the St. Lawrence Seaway. I am well aware, as is the minister, that many telegrams and letters have been received in respect of the 10 per cent increase in tolls and the need for a public hearing. Has the minister received representations to that effect and what was his answer?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I receive representations and the department is now working on a paper for cabinet in order to see whether we can refinance the whole seaway, and I will have to discuss this matter with the Minister of Finance.


Is that a further policy statement?


You know what the seaway debt is. I think it amounts to $30 million per year. They do not collect enough money to even pay the taxes, so I think we must have a new scheme, and I hope that I will be in a position shortly to make an announcement.


In light of the fact there has been some concern about this government moving in a unilateral direction on this matter, and keeping in mind that there has been concern registered regarding our export trade, Canada-U.S. relations and a concern on the part of pri-

February 18, 1975
Oral Questions
mary and secondary industry, would the minister now give some assurance that he will implement a policy of holding public hearings prior to the cabinet making a decision? In other words, will he attempt to get all the input possible on the economic factors involved before the cabinet makes a decision on this extremely important matter?


Like Pickering.


Yes, it was very useful.


Oh, oh!


When the hon. member says that we are acting unilaterally, perhaps I should point out that the United States did the same thing. One day they decided to maintain their tolls in order to reduce the debt, and they did that without consulting us. We were just informed of it. We may have to do the same thing, or find some other formula. As to whether it is necessary to have a public inquiry, I submit that if we can avoid it we will.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I do not know whether the minister realizes that this is an extremely important and sensitive matter which he should not be treating lightly, and I do not think that he is, but I should like to ask one final question in order to get some assurance from the minister in respect of the direction he is going. Can he assure the House at this time that when he eventually makes a refinancing decision in respect of the St. Lawrence seaway he will make every effort to prevent increases in tolls which would seriously affect our export trade, Canada-U.S. relations and primary and secondary industries in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the House that this is something I will have in mind from the very beginning to the end.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the Food Prices Review Board investigation in the meat industry did not reveal any significant facts, with the chairman stating that the current inquiry into beef marketing will accomplish very little, and in view of the statement of the chairman of the Quebec police commission that organized crime has even cost the teenager a little more in respect of the price of a hamburger, will the Minister of Agriculture strengthen the terms of reference of the commission to include the services of the RCMP in order to conduct an in depth investigation?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the commission will use all the people it thinks can help it in carrying out a proper investigation.


Mr. Speaker, will the terms of reference provide that witnesses can be issued subpoenas and questioned under oath?


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the National Film Board has produced and shown on national CBC a so-called documentary film entitled "Where are you going Company Town", which is a biased, distorted, profane and unfavourable representation of the city of Trail, will the Secretary of State request a national showing of a previously produced unbiased film to be shown to Canadians to at least in part redress the wrong perpetrated on Trail by the CBC and the National Film Board?


Mr. Speaker, I will make those representations known to the corporation.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Agriculture what he proposes to do regarding the charges raised by the Food Prices Review Board in its report on the broiler chicken industry to the effect that the price spread between what the producer gets and the retail price cannot be justified?


Mr. Speaker, there is no national broiler chicken marketing board. There are provincial marketing boards such as the one here which has its authority vested by the province of Ontario. We do grant them the authority to operate inter-provincially. They may be operating in a fashion that some hon. members would question, and if hon. members can give me some real evidence of that other than what Mrs. Plumptre presents I will look into it.


Mr. Speaker, I would then ask the minister what he proposes to do about the growing cold storage surplus of broiler chickens in Canada, which I understand has increased from 31 million pounds in September to 34 million pounds today? Perhaps I could also ask the minister whether he intends to pursue his plans to set up a broiler chicken marketing board, notwithstanding the recommendations of the Food Prices Review Board?
February 18, 1975


Mr. Speaker, the National Farm Products Marketing Council held hearings last year in respect of whether there should be a broiler marketing agency for Canada. Hearings were held and views were expressed. The council then proceeded with a draft agreement, but the agreement has gone no further. I think that is probably because of the inquiry into the national egg marketing agency called CEMA. I am not prepared to go ahead at this time until there is more federal authority, or until more federal authority can be vested in such an agency because I do not see how it could properly be run without it. The fact that there is a surplus of broiler chickens in storage has nothing to do with any national marketing program. These provincial marketing boards run their own systems at the present time. Such a federal or national agency would require a proper supply management program, and that would have to be put into effect before I would sign any agreement that required a federal authority as a signatory.


Mr. Speaker, I would ask the minister whether, in the absence of a national agreement, he proposes to carry out his responsibilities as the Minister of Agriculture for Canada, in meeting with his provincial counterparts to see whether a plan can be devised to get these chickens out of cold storage to be used as part of our foreign aid program, or put on the market to the advantage of the Canadian consumer?


Mr. Speaker, I would say that the poultry producers have a certain cost involved in the production of poultry, and if society as a whole wants to put the poultry on the market or into some foreign aid program, that would be the job of society as a whole. Society as a whole should have the total authority for putting them into foreign aid or on the market. There is no sign of waste. We have investigated the storage facilities in which these broilers are stored at the present time and I am told there is no chance of waste at the present time. I am also told that producers are voluntarily cutting back on production. This is a free wheeling type of operation and there is no real federal jurisdiction or control in respect of production at the present time.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. Will he confirm that the Governor General and the Privy Council, through the office of the Prime Minister, have received a petition from the Quebec Association of Protestant School Boards, containing some 47,000 signatures, asking the government to refer Quebec's bill 22 to the Supreme Court of Canada and, if so, what is the intention of the government in response to this petition and request?
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I can confirm that such a petition has been received. It will of course be studied, as it deserves to be, by the cabinet. I can only say by way of answer that on the questions of policy the Prime Minister has indicated on certain occasions the general attitude the government would take in these matters, namely, that disallowance is a procedure which has not been in effect fer many years, and we are most reluctant to employ it, and also that if there were to be a private action against bill 22, the government might be disposed to participate. These questions will all be considered in the light of the petition which has been presented.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the vast amount of federal funds committed to the Syncrude project, and considering as well that the cost estimate given to the public and hon. members of the House escalated from $2 billion to $2.9 billion, I wonder if the minister would agree, prior to the government signing a final set of contracts on the project, to the establishment of a special committee of the House to investigate the commitments of the government and all costs related to the Syncrude project with a view to reporting back to this House prior to any signing of final contracts by the government.


With relation to the allegations made last week by the hon. member's colleague about a cost escalation, I would advise that the $900 million alleged escalation is made up of a $226 million escalation in the cost of the utility plant, which is not the responsibility of the Syncrude partners but of the government of Alberta; of mortgage financing for housing of $100 million, which again is the responsibility of the province of Alberta; of $500 million interest during construction which, because it is all financed by equity funds, is not relevant; and the sum of approximately $30 million in relation to saline water disposal anticipated in part under the contingency fund already provided for.
The estimated costs are still estimated at the level of $2 billion. There will be in the final supplementary estimates coming forward an application for a supplementary estimate of appropriation for this, which would provide an initial forum, at least, where we could have a discussion of the details of the transaction which I personally would welcome.

Oral Questions


Would the minister inform the House in the current estimate of $2 billion, which he says is still the one held by the government, whether environmental costs are included. When he answers that would he also consider tabling for hon. members of the House and for the public all of the aspects of the Syncrude project which are to be included in the estimates of the government and those cost estimates which will be outside the purview of the commitment of the federal government?


Mr. Speaker, I would be glad to make that clear. As I indicated in answer to a previous question, the studies done by the government of Alberta of course are its property rather than that of this government, and if there is to be a tabling, they would have to be translated. We would be glad to put before the House and before the committee the details of the nature of the obligations being assumed by the partnership and that being assumed by the government of Alberta.
With regard to environment, as I indicated, there is involved in the $2 billion figure a contingency amount for environmental problems of the kind referred to.


I have a final supplementary, Mr. Speaker. Due to the fact that by the time the House considers the estimates the agreement will already have been reached and therefore serious consideration of the policy would be too late, is the minister saying that the government does not intend the House to have the opportunity to investigate all aspects of the Syncrude project thoroughly prior to its making a commitment?


Mr. Speaker, I would anticipate having some difficulty executing a contract in relation to the Syncrude project without first having the approval of the House for the appropriation to enter into the transaction.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Solicitor General of Canada.
A policemen congress from the Maritime provinces took place recently where a resolution was adopted recommending the restoration of capital punishment in Canada. Is the minister aware of this resolution, did he receive a copy of it and did he follow it up?


No, Mr. Speaker, I have not yet received a copy of the said resolution, although I have read about it in the press. On the

other hand, when I was invited to this meeting, I told the organizers that I already had a commitment for that particular day but that I would be willing to meet with representatives or the executive following the meeting to discuss the issues with them, but I have not yet heard from them.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question.
The minister says he had a previous engagement, but if it had not been the case, can he affirm that he would have attended the congress?


No, Mr. Speaker. I receive many requests for engagements in this country, and I had made a commitment on this occasion. I promised to meet representatives from that meeting, or their executive and so far I have not heard from them. If they wish to meet with me, I would be quite willing to do so.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also addressed to the Solicitor General. Is the Solicitor General aware that last evening 12 newsmen, including cameramen, who had gone to the B.C. penitentiary to get a news story in regard to a hostage being held at that time were invited inside and locked up-penned up, one might even say-and held incommunicado for over two hours, even half an hour after the hostage had been released?


Mr. Speaker, I was only advised by a newsman of this matter after I came into the House this afternoon, and I promised him that I would look into it immediately.


Why did they let them out?


I might say that I received information this morning about the hostage case, but I was not told about this incident with respect to the press.


Mr. Speaker, when the minister makes his report, would he let us know upon whose orders this particular action was taken and also the action that he proposes to take to ensure that this does not happen again and that those responsible will be dealt with appropriately?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.
February 18, 1975


Mr. Speaker, 1 wish to direct my question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. In view of the opinion expressed by the premiers of the Atlantic provinces that Canada's Foreign Investment Review Act is placing restrictions on foreign companies and investment in Atlantic Canada at a time when unemployment in our area is 11 per cent or more and rising, is it the intention of the minister to propose that the controversial second part of this legislation be shelved when he meets with the provincial industry ministers on March 10 and 11?


No, Mr. Speaker, but I do intend to meet with those ministers on that occasion to discuss with them the operation and consultative mechanisms set up by my department and with their departments.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the government House leader. Where is the Prime Minister, what is the matter with him, and is it serious?


Mr. Speaker, I am very glad to see that the hon. gentleman is just as concerned as the rest of us about the health of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has the 'flu. I gather that he was very anxious to come into the House today, but his doctor said it would be advisable that he remain home for another day. I will pass on to the Prime Minister the concern of the hon. member. I know that he will appreciate it very much.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct my question to the President of the Treasury Board with respect to the strike of public service employees now taking place. In view of the fact that at the time of the grain workers strike in the fall of 1974, the Canadian Wheat Board indicated that if the strike lasted for six weeks it would take until mid May, 1975 to fulfill foreign grain commitments, and because there has been at least one other work stoppage, I wonder if the minister is in a position to indicate whether there are any contingency plans to move grain if this current strike persists in view of the very detrimental effect it may have with respect to our foreign commitments.
Oral Questions


This aspect of the problem does not come under my responsibility, Mr. Speaker. The employees involved have the right to strike. Parliament has given them this right and I believe we must respect it. Of course, any strike creates problems in various sectors of the economy, but Parliament did allow these employees to use this weapon, and I respect this wish.


Mr. Speaker, I accept the position the minister takes with respect to the right to strike but in view of the fact that this matter has some serious consequences for the producer in western Canada and across the country, I wonder if he is in a position to indicate whether the government will give consideration to the formation of a public interest disputes commission in order to ensure that Canadian grain producers will not be subject to sales losses as a result of future strikes, slowdowns or work stoppages?


Mr. Speaker, I now have no indication that the strike has seriously disrupted the movement of grain to ports, or the shipping of grain to our customers. In any event, I do not see why, when grain is concerned, the right to strike should be withdrawn and other sectors of the economy allowed to use it. The right to strike is either respected or it is not!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Acting Minister of Manpower and Immigration and concerns the very disturbing circumstances involving one Roosevelt Douglas who is a criminal convicted in the 1969 burning and smashing of the computer at Sir George Williams University. His appeal against deportation was turned down after the minister and the Solicitor General last year signed a rarely used form which indicated that it would be "contrary to the national interest" to allow this professional troublemaker to stay in Canada. Can the acting minister advise why such a person, considered by the court to be a security risk, is still in Canada and last week surfaced to publicly criticize the green paper on immigration?


Mr. Speaker, I will take that question as notice.

February 18, 1975
Oral Questions EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Could the minister indicate if the government has received any response from the government of the United States of America with reference to the concern registered by the Canadian government over the proposed sale of office furniture to Cuba by the Scarborough based firm of Coles Division of Litton Equipment?


It is all settled.


That is old news.


Mr. Speaker, the answer is yes. I believe in this particular case a waiver was granted to allow the sale to go forward. I certainly regard it as a positive development in the situation.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In light of the recent unilateral declaration by Turkish Cypriots of a separate state in Cyprus while negotiations were going on between Turkish and Greek Cypriots, will the government of Canada express its disapproval of this action based as it is on military force and a defiance of the unanimous resolution of the United Nations Security Council on November 1 which called for speedy withdrawal of all foreign armed troops, and the continuation of negotiations with a view to reaching a free and mutually acceptable settlement?


Mr. Speaker, the government of Canada has learned with concern of the statement by the Turkish Cypriots on that island. We have, as you know, considerable peacekeeping obligations there and for that reason have attempted to avoid taking sides. We have urged the parties to negotiate however, and of course formal negotiations began earlier this year. There can be no doubt that the announcement made by the Turkish Cypriots must be regarded as a serious setback to the success of those negotiations. I might add to my hon. friend that we must note that the Turkish Cypriots have not gone beyond asking for a federated state, and therefore the Canadian policy of supporting the independence and territorial integrity of Cyprus has not been breached by this statement. I do, however, regard it as a serious setback to the success of the negotiations. I believe that now all countries must urge the two parties on the island to resume negotiations, even though this complicating circumstance has intervened.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I should like to ask the minister whether the setting up of a separate state entirely outside the negotiations is a prelim-

inary move toward the partition and destruction of the integrity of the Republic of Cyprus?


Mr. Speaker, the statement itself does not constitute a request for partition or for an independent state. To that extent, it meets the concern of my hon. friend and to that extent it ought to be greeted with a certain amount of satisfaction.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the President of the Treasury Board.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a supplementary.


May I go on with my question, Mr. Speaker? Considering that since last Thursday the Unemployment Insurance Commission offices on Montreal island refuse to answer in English, that employees classified as French unilingual must answer many inquiries made in English and also that those employees have asked to be entitled to the 7 per cent bonus since they must give information in both languages, can the minister now say whether he is willing to comply with the request?


Mr. Speaker, the government policy on the bonus for bilingualism does not apply to this category of employees, but to a special category of secretaries, here in the House of Commons and in Ottawa, who receive this bonus. We are not projecting to extend this bonus to other categories of federal public servants. I could not agree to this demand, and I hope the employees concerned will do their duty and answer government customers in both official languages.


The hon. member for Victoria.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege.


I shall recognize the hon. member later, but for the moment, the hon. member for Victoria has the floor.

The hon. member for Victoria.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Defence. Can the minister confirm that Canadian Armed Forces bases have

been ordered to set up meetings between armed forces personnel and salesmen from Canada Trust Company for the presentation of a registered retirement savings plan and that in remote areas where it is difficult for the Canada Trust salesmen to reach the bases, commanding officers have been ordered to pass on instruction with the sales kits?


Mr. Speaker, it is correct to say that Canada Trust is setting up a retirement savings plan for those who may wish to join it, but I cannot confirm or deny the actual arrangements which have been outlined.


Mr. Speaker, if the minister will refer to National Defence Headquarters message 071815Z he will see what I am referring to. Does he see nothing wrong with his department's shilling for Canada Trust in the high pressure sales world of registered retirement savings plans?


Shame!


Mr. Speaker, I think the retirement savings plan will be of benefit to the individuals within the armed forces who participate in it.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. As a message has gone out to all bases clearly saying that Canada Trust alone has been selected by the department to act as trustee, does the minister not consider this an improper position for the department to take?


Mr. Speaker, the members of the armed forces, as individuals, are entitled to join any retirement savings plan they wish. This is an attempt by the department, after long study, to select a company that can be of service to the individuals of the armed forces who wish to participate in a retirement savings plan. There is absolutely no compulsion of any kind. It is a benefit to the armed forces.


Oh, oh!


Order, please. There is time for one more question.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Will the Minister advise the House if he will be accepting the invitation to visit Africa in April, whether he is going under the auspices of the Canadian International Development Agency and whether Paul Ger-in-Lajoie will be accompanying the minister on this "fun-in-the-sun" excursion.
Privilege-Mr. Peters


Mr. Speaker, I have just had a suggestion from one of my hon. friend's colleagues to join the "fun-in-the-sun", so he ought not to be scandalized at the prospect of that happening. I am planning to take a working visit-


Oh, oh!


Are you taking your bathing suit?


-which I look forward to with a certain amount of trepidation.


Are you going to Uganda?


I have not decided on my travelling companions, as yet.


Orders of the day.


Mr. Speaker, my question of privilege is related to the fact that I mentioned three times that I would like to ask a supplementary of the Secretary of State for External Affairs. [English]
With your permission, now that I have been recognized I wish to direct a supplementary question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. My supplementary-


Oh, oh!


Order, please.


You have not been here long enough.


Order, please. The hon. member must realize that he joins some very impressive company in the House in this regard.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege on behalf of all members of this House. It seems to me that the practice of the House has always been, and I think it is borne out by Roberts and other authorities on procedure, that a question of privilege or point of order shall take precedence over other business being debated. Your Honour has recently seen fit not to hear a point of order or question of privilege at the time of its being raised and to hear it only after the conclusion of a series of discussions.
Apart from whether the point raised just now had merit, I suggest, on behalf of all hon. members, that Your Honour should hear a question of privilege as soon as it is raised. It has always been the practice of the House that we interrupt whoever has the floor in order to allow an hon. member to put his point of order or question of privilege. I suggest that we would be better served if that practice were to continue.


Hear, hear!


With respect to the hon. member's point, I have tried, when points of order or questions of privilege have been raised, to indicate to hon. members who are raising them that I see them and recognize that they have a question of privilege or a point of order to raise. In some
3312

February 18, 1975
External Affairs and National Defence cases hon. members have seemed to agree, at my urging perhaps, that their question of privilege or point of order would be as well served if they did not interrupt the hon. member who was in the midst of a particular line of questioning. In other cases hon. members have indicated that their point of order or question of privilege had some urgency in that it related to them personally.
The fact that a question of privilege or point of order is recognized as being in order is, I submit, adequate. There is nothing, it seems to me, in the practices or precedents of the House which says that the raising of a point of order or question of privilege ought to stop, in mid-sentence, a member who is in the course of developing a supplementary line of questioning. I am simply trying to combine the two points of view and to be fair to all members at the same time.


I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker.


The hon. member for Temiscamingue on a question of privilege.


Mr. Speaker, with all due respect to the Chair, I think that under standing orders the hon. member for Timiskaming (Mr. Peters) is perfectly right when he says that a question of privilege must interrupt all parliamentary proceedings and allow all hon. members to hear that question of privilege. The Chair decides whether there is a question of privilege, but first the right to raise it must be recognized anyhow.


With all due respect to the hon. member for Temiscamingue, I shall point out that I tried to explain that it is because of that and of well established precedents that I recognized the hon. member for Saint-Denis on his question of privilege. I suggested that the oral question period go on for the other two members. But had the hon. member for Saint-Denis insisted on raising his question of privilege at that time, I would have heard him, but if he permits me to recognize the other two members to finish the oral question period before he asks his question, the House and the Chair agree.


That the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence be empowered to hear evidence on and to consider Canadian policy with respect to the question of continuing defence cooperation with the United States and in particular the future of the North American Air Defence agreement (NORAD); and That the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence be empowered to hear reports from Canadian delegations

which have met with delegations from foreign parliaments or attended interparliamentary assemblies.


Motion agreed to.
The House resumed, from Friday, February 14, consideration in committee of Bill C-49, to amend the statute law relating to income tax-Mr. Turner (Ottawa-Carleton)- Mr. Laniel in the chair.
When the committee rose last Friday, February 14, 1975, clause 28 had been carried. The committee will now proceed to the consideration of clause 29.
On clause 29.


Mr. Chairman, there is a technical amendment to be moved here. I would ask the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources to be good enough to move this amendment.


I move:
That clause 29 of Bill C-49 be amended
(a)	by striking out lines 36 to 42 on page 49 and substituting the following:
"receivable."
(2) Subsections 59(2) to (5) of the said act are repealed and the following substituted therefor:
"(2) There shall be included in computing a taxpayer's income for a taxation year any amount in respect of
(a)	a Canadian resource property,
(b)	a foreign resource property,
(c)	any property described in paragraph (1.1) (b),
(d)	any property described in any of subparagraphs 66(15) (c) (i) to (vi) that is not property described in paragraph (1.1) (b), or
(e)	any property described in any of subparagraphs 66(15) (c) (i) to (vi) if the references therein to "in Canada" were read as references to "outside Canada",
that has been deducted as a reserve under subsection 64(1) in computing his income for the immediately preceding taxation year.
(2.1) There shall be included in computing a taxpayer's income for a taxation year any amount that has been deducted as a reserve"
(b)	by striking out line 9 of the French version on page 49 and substituting the following:
"a) d'un avoir minier canadien, ou"
(c)	by striking out line 43 of the French version on page 50 and substituting the following:
"biens vises a l'alinea (l.l)b), les"


Explain.


Mr. Chairman, I cannot give a legal opinion.


Hon. members have heard the minister's proposition.
February 18, 1975


The Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources cannot possibly give an opinion. I wonder whether the parliamentary secretary could explain the purpose of the amendment.


Of course, Mr. Chairman, I think that in English, for the hon. member's information-

Explanatory note (a), the words "in that year" were deleted at line 36 on page 49 since they are not required. Subsection 59(2) has been amended at lines 37 to 39 on page 49 to change the previous reference because of other changes to subsections 59(1) and 59(3). The amendments in subsection 59(2) are only technical and there is no chan