Mr. Speaker, I rise pursuant to Standing Order 43 to propose a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
It has come to my attention that people have carried weapons, such as holstered hand guns and long bladed knives onto commercial airliners, both on their person and in their hand luggage. While these were not people of bad intent, these occurrences do show that x-ray and metal detecting devices at Canadian airports are not completely thorough or effective, resulting in possible danger to innocent passengers.
I would move, seconded by the member for Vancouver Quadra (Mr. Clarke):
That this House direct the Minister of Transport to launch an immediate investigation into this matter and conduct extensive tests on these apparatus at Canadian airports.


The motion proposed pursuant to Standing Order 43 cannot be presented without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?
Some hort. Members: Agreed.


No.


| English |
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance who indicated yesterday in response to a question that he did not expect to achieve unanimity in any particular sector of the economy. I would like to ask, therefore, whether he expects to be able to maintain compliance with the targets about which there is to be consensus over a period of three or four years in the absence of unanimity within the particular sectors.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman is assuming that we are successful in achieving a consensus or mutual agreement. Obviously any mutual agreement would have to allow for a certain flexibility in those areas of the work force that have fallen behind in terms of their ability to maintain that pace of the rise in the cost of living over the last 18 months.
On the other side, certain businesses and even industries have been in a loss position over the last few months or in a position where the competitive forces have put them in exceptional circumstances. So that in envisaging the operation of any consensus program, one would have to allow not only for a lack of complete unanimity but for some flexibility in the appraisal of the success or failure of the program.


I am happy to have the information, but I would be happier if the minister would answer my question.
Is it the intention of the minister to rely entirely upon voluntary compliance with his targets, flexible or rigid as the case may be, or does he propose to resort to other sanctions such as taxation sanctions, having said yesterday that he does not intend the monitoring board to have any power to impose its will?


One of the difficulties with sanctions is the rigidity they impose. What one has to try to achieve in mobilizing the program is a balance between moderation in the claims upon the economy in terms of prices on the one hand and costs on the other with the necessity to retain enough incentives in the system to provide for the expansion, both in agriculture and industry, necessary to provide the jobs we will need until the end of the decade and provide the production that will ensure stability in prices over the medium and long terms.


I have a supplementary question. I wish the minister would answer directly how he intends to achieve support for his program if he cannot achieve unanimity within each sector, and how he can expect to achieve compliance over a period of three or four years. In particular, since he indicated yesterday that with respect to mineral prices, for example, the world price would be the domestic price, and that we would not resort to a two price system, how can he expect manufacturers to accept that kind of standard for mining companies if they are going to be restricted to price increases based only upon increased costs?


The hon. gentleman of course still has in the back of his mind the feeling that the voluntary system will not work-

April 15, 1975
Oral Questions


I want to know your system.


-in a free society, and he has relied in the past on a compulsory system. We rejected that because of the rigidities built into it and because of the fact that it places constraints on the expansionary potential of the economy. My hope is that the facts, as they are presented to Canadians in terms of our current unemployment rate, the current rate of inflation and the comparative escalation of costs in Canada compared with those in the United States, our closest competitor, and those in Europe, will be such that if we can mobilize a general climate of opinion in favour of this program, it has a good chance of succeeding.


My question is also to the Minister of Finance. Relating the domestic consensus talks to the international scene, is it the position of the minister that the Canadian economy should be oriented in a counterveiling position to that of other countries to avoid a new synchronization of expansionary policy among industrialized nations, which the minister stated last evening had provoked Canadian and worldwide inflation over the past few years?


No, sir.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Considering the delicate stage of the consensus guidelines and the fragile state of the Canadian economy, would the Prime Minister tell the House what minister will be taking over the duties of the finance minister as acting finance minister, particularly that of talking the economy back to health, while the current Minister of Finance is visiting other countries?


It will be the Acting Minister of Finance, Mr. Speaker.


Oh, oh.


May we know the name of the Acting Minister of Finance?


The hon. member for Westmount.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. In view of the fact that the Canadian Railway Freight Association
| Mr. Turner (Ottawa-Carleton). |
has filed a tariff application for a 20 per cent increase in class freight rates effective May 5, and in view of the commitment of the minister in February, at the meeting of transport ministers in Calgary, to prevent further horizontal percentage increases in rail freight rates, can the minister inform the House whether he approves of this new 20 per cent increase in class rates, and if not, whether he intends to intervene to prevent the increase?


I think I have stated my position on this across the board increase proposed by the railways. My answer was quite clear, and I am still opposed to what they are trying to achieve.


In view of the fact that these class rates are ceiling rates for the railways and set the pattern for all the other rates, that some commodity rates are tied directly to class rates and will automatically increase, and in view of the predictions that the increase in class rates will inevitably lead to further increases in other categories, can the minister give his assurance that, in accordance with his Calgary undertaking, no across the board increases in other categories will be permitted?


Under the authority given to me by law I will surely get in touch with the CTC and see to it that what I said is really accepted by the railways.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the minister clarify how he intends to carry out this commitment? Precisely what kinds of increases, in what categories is he pledged to prevent? For instance, what freight rates? The only one that he can prevent, possibly, is the rate on walrus tusks from Inuvik to Frobisher Bay. What is he going to do?


Order, please. I am not sure the question period would be the appropriate place for the minister to attempt an exhaustive review of all the categories in which there might be intervention.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture.
Has he received a telegram from the Quebec poultry producers association stating their concern about the situation resulting from the strike of longshoremen at the Montreal, Quebec City and Trois-Rivieres harbours, for producers now have poultry feed for 24 hours only, and, if yes, what does he intend to do?
| English |


Mr. Speaker, we have received many telegrams but I am not sure if I have seen that one concerning the possible shortage of feed grains. The grain elevator in Quebec City has been opened for two or three days now and grain is moving out of that area. Other ships are moving into the
April 15, 1975

area with feed grains. We are not moving grain out of Montreal or out of Three Rivers, but we are hopeful the grain supply situation will improve-not that there will be a sustained supply but sufficient that there will be no loss of poultry or livestock. We are doing everything possible to make sure that the grain moves.


A point of order, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a supplementary.


The hon. Leader of the Opposition on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if by accident you have overlooked the tradition of calling on a member of the Social Credit Party in the first round?


Order, please. I might say I have not done that by accident. It was done because at the moment the NDP member finished questioning no member of the Social Credit Party was standing.


Mr. Speaker, to calm the fears of the Leader of the Opposition, may I tell him that this afternoon I take it upon myself to be the spokesman for the Social Credit Party of Canada on this subject. I should have liked to put my supplementary to the Minister of Labour, but in his absence I shall address it to the Prime Minister.
Does the government intend to settle the strike of the longshoremen in the port of Montreal the way it did in the port of Vancouver?


Mr. Speaker, I am sorry but I was not listening when the question was put. Would the hon. member be kind enough to ask it again?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be pleased to do so.
I asked the Minister of Labour, or in his absence, his parliamentary secretary, or the Prime Minister, whether the government intends to take legislative measures identical to those Parliament passed to settle the longshoremen's strike in the port of Vancouver to settle the strike now paralyzing the ports of Montreal, Trois-Rivieres and Quebec City?


Mr. Speaker, there always comes a time in a strike when the public interest must be weighed against the right to strike. The government and the cabinet are now in the process of looking into this matter. For the time being we have no statement to make, but one thing is sure: the Minister of Labour and the government are watching the situation very closely.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the Leader of the Official Opposition for his kindness to us and also to tell the House that we did not elect the member for Bonaventure-Iles-de-la-Madeleine (Mr. Bechard) to speak on our behalf. However, when our turn came, I was busy talking with a member on the government's side. So, my question-


They were talking about patronage!


-and we were not talking about patronage, but about management.
In the absence of the Minister of Manpower and Immigration, I want to put a question to the right hon. Prime Minister.
In view of the unfortunate strike of longshoremen in the ports of Quebec City, Montreal and Trois-Rivieres, which worries a lot of people and disturbs our economy, can the Prime Minister assure the House that the negotiations now taking place to settle this strike are conducted with diligence and not only for form's sake, and secondly can the Prime Minister reassure us on the results of these negotiations and tell us that the strike will soon be over?


Mr. Speaker, of course, I cannot give any guarantee regarding the outcome of the negotiations, but the answer I gave to the excellent question of the hon. member for Bonaventure-Iles-de-la-Madeleine (Mr. Bechard) indicates rather clearly that the government follows this matter very closely.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the Minister of Agriculture.
Considering that for the past 10 days several members from both sides of the House are rightly concerned about conditions in Quebec, can the minister tell us how long the government is ready to wait to settle this embarrassing matter and can he at last tell when producers will have sufficient supplies?


Mr. Speaker, many statements have been made concerning the shortage of grain and the loss of poultry livestock, but no evidence has been presented to me or to the provincial minister of agriculture in Quebec to show that this is actually taking place. Grain is moving out of the Quebec elevator. Grain is being moved to the area by ship from the Lakehead and by truck, and we are optimistic because those who are picketing the grain elevators in Montreal are not elevator workers. None of them work in the elevators. We hope, and are optimistic, that an arrangement can be made for the union to withdraw their pickets from that area, because there is an injunction; there is to be peaceful picketing, and truckers refuse to cross the picket lines
4808

April 15, 1975
Oral Questions
when pickets are there. They are on public property, on the street, and we are optimistic enough to think that the union may be encouraged to withdraw their picket lines from that elevator in that area. Also, some trucks moved out of Montreal early this morning, before 6 a.m.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question.
Since the producers' association has already applied to the minister responsible for a subsidy to offset additional costs incurred as a result of that dispute, is the minister in a position to assure the House that he would be willing to discharge the additional costs which producers are now compelled to pay to obtain supplies?


Mr. Speaker, we have always looked after them in the past in a responsible and reasonable fashion and accepted their requests in the same fashion.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport and has to do with a question I asked him yesterday concerning the denial of an undertaking given by the vice-chairman of the National Harbours Board to the mayor of the city of Halifax and other interested people who came to Ottawa to discuss shed rentals in that particular port. Has he had an opportunity to advise himself of the nature of this serious confrontation between the mayor of the city of Halifax and others, and the chairman of the National Harbours Board concerning the denial of the undertaking given by Mr. Guy Beaudet, vice-chairman of the National Harbours Board.


Mr. Speaker, this is extremely difficult for me. I have taken the matter very seriously, and I got in touch with the National Harbours Board. I did not receive the exact confirmation of what the hon. member reports. I am not saying he does not tell the truth, but I think I have taken a faster way. Tomorrow, the chairman of the National Harbours Board, Mr. Taylor, will be in Halifax to meet the mayor to clarify the situation.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I must say I am surprised that there has not been some reaction from the chairman of the National Harbours Board. Would the minister take a personal interest in this matter, because it is quite likely, if the impasse continues tomorrow, that the resignation of the vice-chairman of the National Harbours Board will be called for, a position which I cannot help but support, because somebody has been playing games with the port of Halifax. Would the minister intervene personally in this matter and use his authority to suggest in the strongest possible terms to Mr. (Mr. Whelan.]
Beaudet and Mr. Taylor that, when they go to Halifax, they should go prepared to talk straight and not with a crooked tongue.


Mr. Speaker, as soon as Mr. Taylor is back from Halifax and there have been discussions with the mayor, I will be happy to give a more precise answer.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask the government House leader a question about the report of the Independent Review Commission which was tabled yesterday. Will the government House leader consult with the other House leaders with regard to submitting this report to a committee of this House in connection with proposing the kind of legislation suggested in the first recommendation of the report? I make that proposition because parliament must be vitally concerned with regard to the position of the Auditor General who is the servant of parliament.


Mr. Speaker, the House leader of the opposition will recall that it has been government policy to propose a bill that gives statutory form to the responsibilities of the Auditor General. Therefore, this does accord with government policy. I am not quite sure whether it would be more expeditious to refer this report to a committee or have the government present legislation based on this report for the consideration of the House. In either event, we are in favour of introducing such legislation.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In view of the fact that 18,884 aliens became landed immigrants last year through orders in council, and in view of the fact that regulations imposed by the government now clearly indicate that a prospective immigrant must apply from outside Canada, can the minister indicate whether a practice in which approval of such large numbers is being given only worsens Canada's problems with illegal immigration since illegal immigrants can always hope for an order in council from this government?


Mr. Speaker, I do not believe that is the case. I respect the hon. member's question and concern. I will be glad to discuss it with him in detail, either privately or when I am before a committee. There is nothing hidden in this practice. It is a discretionary authority vested in the minister. I think in every case there is a
April 15, 1975

situation and justification which the hon. member would share if he had the responsibility to look at it. I will be glad to go over that in as much detail as the hon. member wishes, perhaps before a committee.


In view of the fact that orders in council now cover approximately 10 per cent of the total number of immigrants landed, will the minister give an undertaking that the names of the people and the auspices or conditions under which they were given the ministerial order in council will be published for members of this House so that suspicions concerning this practice can be aired and clarified?


Mr. Speaker, the only prohibition about giving that detailed information would be that respecting the privacy of the individual in certain cases for reasons which I think the hon. member would share. Generally speaking, yes, in terms of category. There is no attempt whatsoever to hide or withhold the information. I will be glad to convey all the details, with that reservation.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Will the minister advise the Canadian government office of tourism that there is a riding of Kootenay West and within its confines are three major cities, Nelson, Castlegar and Trail, in view of the fact that a recent map depicting British Columbia ignores these cities while at the same time recognizing much smaller communities, including Blaine, Washington, which is shown on the map as being a part of British Columbia? I refer to a tourism advertisement inserted in the National Geographic magazine, which is not known for its errors. Can I have some assurance from the minister that a change will be made?


I will draw those representations to the attention of CGOT.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Would the minister advise the House what action is being taken with regard to the persistence of ice conditions in the northwestern Atlantic, particularly near Newfoundland, which are interfering with the execution of the fisheries? My question arises from the need of further ice-breaking capability in that area. Has he been made aware of the conditions which exist? What action is being taken?
Oral Questions


This is the first time I have been made aware of the situation. I intend to inquire immediately.


Is the minister aware that I have already brought this matter to the attention of his officials? Since these conditions are in evidence every year, and have been persisting, would the minister tell us what attitude the government is taking toward increasing the capability of ice-breaker services which up to this time have been lacking?


As the hon. member already knows, the government has decided to increase our capability in this field. Two ice breakers are to be built in the near future and much bigger ones later on when we have enough money to pay the bill.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Postmaster General. In view of the difficulties which have been experienced in the last few days in the Montreal Post Office I should like to ask him whether meetings have been arranged between himself and representatives of the Union of Postal Workers and, if so, whether he can report any progress.


Mr. Speaker, we are still encountering difficulties in the Montreal Post Office and, reluctantly, I found it necessary last evening to suspend indefinitely a postal worker for pushing or attacking a supervisor and to suspend 183 other workers for the rest of their shift. Apart from those minor problems, I think things are running well in the Post Office. Discussions are going on at the local level between the appropriate officials and the various supervisors. As far as discussions at the national level are concerned it would be, I think, in everybody's best interests-if they are held-that not only the contents of such conversations be private but the fact that there is such a meeting being held should also be considered as private.


I am not for a moment trying to judge where the fault lies, but surely the suspension of such a large number of employees is a serious matter. Again, would the minister not consider the advisability of meeting formally with the national representatives of the Union of Postal Workers so that there might be a frank discussion of the issues in the hope that the difficulties, whatever they are, may be resolved as quickly as possible, in which case several hundred more employees would not need to be suspended or dismissed or whatever the minister says is being done with them?


I find myself in a dilemma here. I do not want to leave the impression that such a course has not been considered. I simply stated the conditions under which I would prefer the discussion to take place-poss-
29557-29)4

April 15, 1975
Oral Questions
ibly the conditions which someone else would prefer. I wish to make it clear that these suspensions are not because management is necessarily right; it is simply that the solution lies in applying the collective agreement and the grievance procedure rather than settling the matter through what I consider to be a violent way of acting and one which is not in the best interests of the labour movement.


Hear, hear!


In view of the fact there obviously exists a difference of opinion between the minister and the President of the Canadian Union of Postal Workers about the way in which a collective bargaining agreement is applied, may I suggest to the minister for the last time that the way to settle this difference of opinion is through a meeting between the minister and the president of the union so that each may know precisely what the other is thinking?


Theoretically, it is possible that such a meeting has already taken place.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of Agriculture what progress he and his colleague the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs are making toward the government's objective of assuring adequate stocks of chemical fertilizer available to the agriculture industry this year at economic prices?


I am
assured that there will be adequate supplies. If the information given to me is correct, some farmers are cutting back their purchases of fertilizer because of the uneconomic price-the high price that is involved. We have seen some slight evidence of price decrease in our analyses of fertilizer sales but nothing like we would wish to see- nothing like the reduction we think should take place. I am working very closely with the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs with regard to what action we can take.


What action has the minister taken to make sure that farmers generally are aware of the fact that there should be adequate supplies available, whether the price is right or not?


We have contacted all the provincial departments of agriculture and our surveys show, as they have in the past, that there will be adequate supplies. In some areas there may even be an oversupply of some varieties of fertilizer.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister a question. I would have directed it to the Secretary of State for External Affairs but he is absent on business. Having regard to the haphazard efforts of CIDA in the past, how will the new guidelines affecting CIDA with respect to foreign aid be applied when it comes to determining which countries are to receive such aid, especially in the light of the statement by the Secretary of State for External Affairs that fewer countries will receive Canadian assistance?


I think it would be appropriate for these guidelines to be discussed in a forum other than the question period at which time full satisfaction could be given to the hon. member. Perhaps he has a more specific question to follow up with.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I have. Will the assistance which will be going to Viet Nam be channelled through CIDA, and will it be assistance directed to the relief of misery, inhumanity and suffering in the form of cash?


As the Secretary of State for External Affairs stated, our help to Viet Nam is being channelled through international agencies.


Maybe the minister left the wrong impression. I was asking about the sole Canadian agency, namely CIDA, possibly working through other agencies. Would this help, given to Viet Nam, be in the form of cash and is the hon. gentleman waiting until the North Vietnamese take over all of Viet Nam to deliver that cash?


The assistance which is being provided by Canada is, of course, being provided through CIDA. It is being provided in cash to international agencies which are now on the spot doing what they can to help.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question also for the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the fact that the situation in that area has deteriorated even more, is the government considering notes of protest to be delivered in Hanoi or elsewhere against the breaches of international agreements, with such cost in terms of misery and tragedy for the local population?


Mr. Speaker, the attitude of the government has been expressed already by the Secretary of State
April 15, 1975

for External Affairs, who has pointed out that our principal purpose in making protests like this is to be helpful to Canadians and to others whose lives might otherwise be in jeopardy. I am sure that the hon. member, who has experience of these matters, would not want to say anything that would harm Canadians or anybody else.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would the minister assure the House and the country that all Canadian personnel in the disaster areas will be evacuated before they become personally endangered?


Mr. Speaker, evacuation plans are being updated daily. However, so far it has been decided that it is not necessary to evacuate Canadians from Saigon. They are safe at the moment, but plans are ready to evacuate them if the situation gets to that point.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the statement of the Minister of National Defence on October 24, 1974 that the President of the Treasury Board was giving serious consideration to the proposition that retired members of the Canadian Armed Forces and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police should be entitled to count their period of service for leave purposes when they enter the public service of Canada, would the minister please inform the House whether this serious consideration is continuing and, if so, would he advise the House and the country when there might be an announcement made with respect to a change of policy?


Mr. Speaker, I am not in a position to tell the hon. member whether or when we will have an announcement on that matter. While I have the floor, Mr. Speaker, may I answer a question from the member for Kingston and the Islands, who asked me yesterday when a contract was given by Statistics Canada. The contract was approved by Treasury Board on January 30, 1975.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder whether the minister could tell me when he will be in a position to answer the question that I first asked?


Soon, Mr. Speaker.
Oral Questions INDIAN AFFAIRS


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
Could the minister tell us if the Indians and Innuits of James Bay in Quebec have really accepted the latest offers of the Bourassa government concerning compensation for the hydro-electric project in that area and, if not, if his department will continue to give them financial help to assert their rights and privileges?


Mr. Speaker, all that has been achieved in Quebec is the signing of an agreement in principle in November of last year. We left a period of a year, to November of this year, for ongoing negotiations and discussions to be held to try to iron out the details, so that the final agreement pertaining to James Bay would not be signed, we expect, until November.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. In view of the fact that security procedures for inspecting passengers and hand baggage at international airports were implemented for the safety of passengers, and in view of the enormous cost and considerable inconvenience to passengers, would the minister call for an immediate investigation into the failure during the past 24 hours of x-ray machines at Vancouver and Toronto international airports to detect the presence in hand baggage of four razor sharp kitchen knives, one of which was over 14 inches in length?


I will consider that, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture and arises out of the meetings held last week with his provincial counterparts. I wonder whether the minister would make a statement on motions regarding the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency and, if so, will the statement be made this week?


Mr. Speaker, I see no real urgency about making a statement.

April 15, 1975
Oral Questions
The findings reached at these meetings were made public. We are still discussing the proposals with some of the provincial governments and provincial egg marketing boards, and I do not think these will be finalized until late this Friday. At least, I am hopeful that they will be finalized this Friday.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. For some time the minister has been seeking additional federal authority over egg marketing. Would the minister tell the House whether he is satisfied that he has received sufficient federal authority within CEMA, or is the minister also seeking additional authority over the Food Products Marketing Council?


Mr. Speaker, I am seeking orderly marketing for eggs. We have asked the provinces for and been given more federal authority by the majority to enable CEMA to operate in this way. There is also a commitment to reorganize the National Farm Products Marketing Council.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration and concerns a matter of great moment to many adoptive parents in Canada. Has the government investigated the claim by the International Red Cross that adoption of Vietnamese children contravenes the Geneva convention governing the protection of civilian populations; and can the minister assure us that these adoptions are in fact legal and that there will not be any questions asked later as to the legality of the adoptions of children already adopted?


Mr. Speaker, I have made several statements in this regard, many of them in this House. The children that are being brought forward are children for whom the adoption process, in terms of complying with the legal requirements of the government of South Viet Nam and in terms of complying with the legal requirements for adoption by provincial jurisdictions in Canada, has been completed or is arranged.
As I have indicated, there could be one or two exceptions to this as a result of the confusion and the urgency of the situation in Saigon at the time. A responsible agency might present to our officials there a child as an orphan that they would like removed from Saigon, but such a child would only be accepted if the approval of the South Vietnamese government had been given, and in all cases I am aware of that has been the case. One or two of these children, however, may not have proceeded through the adoption process in Canada, in which case we will have to be very careful-there is one such case-in our contacts with the provincial authorities in order to ensure that the adoption process, which is a provincial matter, does not proceed until all questions are clarified and settled in
(Mr. Whelan.]
terms of the legality of the adoptions in Viet Nam and here.


A brief supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, which I should like to address to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. I gave him some indication a few weeks ago that I would be interested in this matter. In light of the fact that the adoption of orphans from overseas requires the participation of perhaps some five different government departments or agencies, would the minister tell the House what progress is being made, in co-operation with the provincial governments, in establishing some sort of federal co-ordinating agency to facilitate the adoption of orphans from overseas where these adoptions can legally be made?
[Translation]	_


Mr. Speaker, I am happy to report to the hon. member that during the conference of welfare ministers in November 1974, it was agreed, that the Department of National Health and Welfare would establish an adoption desk to deal with international adoptions and to co-ordinate these activities with the provinces. This desk has been created and we are now working very closely with the provinces as well as with the Department of Manpower and Immigration to simplify all negotiations required.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the fact that the Fares language school for public servants recently summarily dismissed 22 teachers for asking for better working conditions and wage parity with similar teachers employed by the federal government, and in view of the fact that the Public Service Commission has institute^ an inquiry into the awarding of language training contracts, would the minister ensure that the Fares contract, which is up for renewal at the end of May, will not be renewed until the PSC inquiry is completed and recommendations are brought forward?


Mr. Speaker, I shall examine the matter and report to the hon. member.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the fact that the Fares contract has amounted to $243,000, will the minister undertake to investigate the working conditions and salaries at the school as well as ensure that the school is maintaining proper language instruction standards?
April 15, 1975


Certainly, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Will the minister inform the House if he has inquired into the matter raised in this House on March 11, 1975 by the hon. member for Athabasca concerning the date Flaherty Manufacturing of Hamilton received a $40,000 contract from the department without tenders being called, and whether Mr. Peter Flaherty was indeed on the departmental payroll as a riding assistant to the former Minister of National Health and Welfare at the same time?
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the minister. Can the minister inform the House what progress if any was made at yesterday's meeting between representatives of the NIB and the relevant cabinet committee? If he cannot inform us as to the progress made at this meeting perhaps he can tell the House when a statement will be forthcoming concerning the outcome of that meeting.


Mr. Speaker, it would take a fairly lengthy period of time to give a full report on the meeting. The basic things that were agreed to were the establishment of committees to look into and try to come to agreement on the broad question of what are native rights and second to set up a body to look into the proposed revision of the Indian Act.


I have not yet had the report, Mr. Speaker, but will look into this matter and be pleased to give the information to the hon. member tomorrow.


Mr. Speaker, this question is directed to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Since Treaty 7 Chiefs after their last meeting with the minister said, "We've used every peaceful method and gotten no place", will the minister go back to Alberta this month with direct answers to the Treaty 7 Chiefs to help ensure that the Indian people are not driven to abandon peaceful methods.


Mr. Speaker, I felt that the replies which were given were direct answers.


Mr. Speaker, will the minister tell the House why, in the sealed envelopes handed to the chiefs without opportunity for debate, the minister did not respond to a single major suggestion or request put forward by the Treaty 7 bands and whether he will continue to ignore their legitimate grievances and concerns or go back and deal with them directly.


Mr. Speaker, the statement is absolutely incorrect.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Is the minister aware that as a result of the poor sales year the United States car industry is having the Canadian subsidiaries of those automobile companies have been instructed to transfer purchase of tooling and assembly parts from Canadian suppliers to firms in the United States? Can the minister advise if he is aware of this situation and if so what his department is prepared to do about it.


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of it. I am interested in the hon. member's question. If he has information to that effect I hope he will give it to me and I will make an inquiry.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Last October the minister indicated that he had had some discussions with United States officials concerning a pipeline to carry Alaskan oil through Canada to the United States. Can the minister advise whether these discussions have continued and if so whether the United States officials have put forward any proposals in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, no specific proposal has been put forward by the United States officials with regard to an oil pipeline through Canada, more probably

April 15, 1975
Oral Questions
up the Mackenzie Valley. There have been extensive discussions between Canadian and United States officials about a general pipeline treaty which would govern the construction of any pipeline either in Canada or the United States.


My question, Mr. Speaker, is for the Minister of Fisheries. I should like to know if we can expect any forthcoming reports concerning the seal hunts which have occurred in relation to the experience that was brought to our attention by previous television films and could we expect any report concerning what has happened in relation to the minister's efforts in this area.


Mr. Speaker, I would inform the hon. member that in the gulf the hunt was not very successful because of ice conditions. On the front, the quota has almost been reached now, but the seal hunt will be coming to an end in a matter of hours or days.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. When we were dealing in the latter part of 1974 with the estimates of the minister's department he said he would look into the matter of the unfairness created by the fact that retired armed services personnel have to wait until age 60 before their pensions are escalated. Is he now in a position to report on this matter?


No, Mr. Speaker, I have no further report.


Mr. Speaker, will the minister continue the study in the hope that he will have a report soon?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I will be glad to do so.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport with regard to the shed rental policy for the port of Halifax.


Now, we are getting down to the nitty-gritty.


Since the Minister of Finance will not get down to the nitty-gritty, it is just as well that I do. Is it now the situation that the shed rental policy may be implemented for the Port of Halifax soon, despite many indications to the contrary given by the Board in the past.


Mr. Speaker, I think I will have to give about the same answer I gave a few minutes ago to the representative of Dartmouth. Mr. Taylor will meet with the mayor of Halifax and I will want to have a full report on this in order to have clear information. The port of Halifax is prospering this year. I do not regret it, but I think it will be much more prosperous than the port of Montreal. It is going very well. This is a good thing. As soon as I have an answer from Mr. Taylor I will be happy to give a precise answer.


Fourth report of Standing Committee on Miscellaneous Estimates in both official languages-Mr. Leblanc (Laurier).
[Editor's Note: For text of above report, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: 1,256, 1,312, 1,571, 1,692, 1,694, 1,697, 1,736, 1,891, 1,901, 2,084 and 2,123.
If question No. 47 could be made an order for return, this return would be tabled immediately.
I ask that questions No. 606 and 1,099 be made orders for return and also ask the consent of the House to table immediately the information which has already been submitted. The balance of the information will follow as soon as it is submitted to me.
Mr. Speaker, would you be so kind as to call starred question No. 1,920?
I ask, Mr. Speaker, that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.
April 15, 1975


1.	Which departments are involved in granting money to group activities sponsored in support of International Women's Year for 1975?
2.	For each department, what is the (a) total 1975 budget available for such groups (b) projected percentage of the budget that will go for (i) administrative costs (ii) actual money to participating groups directly?
3.	For each department, what is the amount of money (a) available by region (b) allocated to metropolitan Dartmouth-Halifax, Nova Scotia?


In so far as the Department of National Health and Welfare is concerned: 1. The Department of National Health and Welfare.
2.	(a) International Women's Year Grants 1974 and 1975, $75,000; 1975 and 1976, $100,000. Other granting areas of the department may grant money to women's groups that are involved with a particular area of interest i.e. New Horizons, Family Planning, Non-medical Use of Drugs etc. (b)(i) Administrative costs are absorbed within the department's budget, (ii) See 2 (a).
3.	(a) and (b) There are no specific regional allocations under International Women's Year Grants.
In so far as the Department of the Secretary of State is concerned: 1. The Women's Programme of the Department of the Secretary of State has been given additonal money for group activities for International Women's year in 1975. In addition to the amount in the Women's Programme, all other programmes in the department will place a priority on women's projects which meet their objectives and criteria.
2.	The funds allocated to the Women's Programme, Department of the Secretary of State for 1974-75 and 1975-76 for the International Women's Year activities, which will take place in the calendar year 1975, are budgeted as follows: (a) and (b) (i) and (ii) Money for group activities, $1,745,000, 75 per cent; Community Education/ Promotion, $202,000, 9 per cent; Seminar Series, $160,000, 7 per cent; Administrative Costs, $220,144, 9 per cent; Total Budget, $2,327,144, 100 per cent.
3.	(a) There is no specific allocation of funds by region or urban area. However, certain guidelines for regional distribution of funds have been established according to the activities and needs of women's organizations across the country; these figures are therefore subject to changes in the course of the year. Atlantic, $204,000; Quebec, $246,000; Ontario, $312,000; Prairies, $280,000; Pacific, $270,000; National, $433,000; Total $1,745,000. (b) Not applicable. See 3 (a).


1.	How many full-time employees were under salary in the Post Office Department on (a) January 1, 1974 (b) January 1, 1975?
Order Paper Questions
2.	How many people in each of these years received salaries of (a) under $10,000 (b) between $10,000 and $20,000 (c) between $20,000 and $30,000 (d) over $30,000?


1. (a) 42,830; (b) 46,310.
2. January 1974: (a) 36,917; (b) 5,755; (c) 145; (d) 13. January 1975: (a) 39,163; (b) 6,823; (c) 298; (d) 26.


1.	With reference to the answer to Question No. 907, what is the reason Statistics Canada does not collect statistics on the official language or languages spoken by new citizens?
2.	Has any difficulty been experienced in assessing the regional effect of immigration and in establishing an immigration policy because of the lack of this information?
3.	Is country of birth, country of former allegiance, marital status and citizenship of spouse considered more important or more useful statistics?
4.	Is it possible to assess the impact of immigration on this country's language groups when no language information is recorded for new citizens?


I am informed by Statistics Canada and the Department of Manpower and Immigration as follows: 1. Statistics Canada reports that annual data on the official language or languages spoken by new citizens is not collected. However, users with a more specialized interest than the general public could request Statistics Canada to generate unpublished data from the 1971 census on the number of Canadian citizens cross-tabulated by period of immigration, mother tongue and official language. Such data was collected from all Canadians in 1971.
2.	Language capabilities of new immigrants are recorded by the immigration division of the Department of Manpower and Immigration, and therefore no lack of information exists which would create the difficulty indicated in the question.
3.	The Department of Manpower and Immigration considers each category of statistics gathered is equally valuable for the purpose for which it is gathered.
4.	Since the immigration division of the Department of Manpower and Immigration has this information for new immigrants, the problem referred to does not exist for that group.


1.	What is the total amount of contracts awarded, to date, for the Department of Public Works project, Place du Portage, Phase III, Hull,
Quebec?
2.	What is the present estimated cost of completion for this project?


1.


April 15, 1975
Order Paper Questions
2.	$98,500,000.
URBAN AFFAIRS BUILDING (LaSALLE ACADEMY)- CONTRACTS TO DATE
1.	What is the total amount of contracts awarded, to date, for the Department of Public Works project, Urban Affairs Building (LaSalle Academy), Ottawa, Ontario?
2.	What is the present estimated cost of completion for this project?


1.


2.	$8,003,200.
1.	What is the total amount of contracts awarded, to date, for the Department of Public Works project, Major Postal Processing Plant, Montreal, Quebec?
2.	What is the present estimated cost of completion for this project?


1.


2.	$212,108,000.
1.	When were shares in the capital stock of other companies acquired by the Canada Development Corporation?
2.	How much per share was paid and how many shares were acquired?
3.	What is the market value of such shares today?


The information sought is not available in the exact form of the questions. All the shares of Polysar Limited were purchased in 1972 for $62 million, provisions being made for an additional $10 million payment to be made under certain circumstances. Connlab Holdings Limited was established by the CDC in 1973 at a cost of $35 million. In turn Connlab owns 100 per cent of Connaught Laboratories Limited, 75 per cent of A/S Dumex, 70 per cent of Omnimedic Inc. and 70 per cent of Roylo Chemicals Limited. Since Polysar and Connlab are wholly owned by the CDC there is no market determined value for their shares. In 1972 the CDC purchased 35 per cent of the shares of Venturetec International Limited for about $4.5 million. In 1973 it purchased 49 per cent of the shares of Ventures West Capital Ltd. for $2.2 million and 40 per cent of the shares of Innocan Investments Ltd. for $3.7 million. These three venture capital companies are owned by a very limited number of investors and since their share do not trade publicly there is no market determined value for such shares. Through a tender offer the CDC acquired in 1973 about 30.4 per cent of the shares of Texasgulf Inc. The tender offer was at $29 per share at a time when these shares were trading at around $22-23, the difference representing the normal premium for acquiring a controlling

interest in the company. The shares of Texasgulf arp now trading at about $27.


1.	Was it intended to make a correction to that part of the Report of the Food Prices Review Board "Sugar Prices and Policies" that appears on page 14 in the English version where it states "it is unlikely that these islands will become a major supplier to Canada within the next few years, since the industry there has been declining as a result of social, economic and other problems" and, i