Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43 I rise on a matter of pressing and urgent necessity. In light of the statements by Shahik Al-Hout warning that the PLO would seek to turn world-wide pressure on Canada if Canada rejected any member of the PLO delegation to the conference on human settlements next year, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Vancouver Quadra (Mr. Clarke):
That this House instruct the minister responsible to inform the UN Secretary General of the conference that while Canada is committed to accepting a delegation from the PLO to the conference on human settlements, we reserve the right as a sovereign state to reject any individual who violates our immigration laws and regulations.


Pursuant to Standing Order 43 the motion cannot be presented without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 to present a motion dealing with a matter of pressing and urgent necessity.
The National Energy Board report on oil, tabled in this House at the end of last week, provided new evidence of the unpleasant and even frightening fact that government officials in the NEB and elsewhere have consistently and dramatically over-estimated the depth of this country's energy reserves. This faulty estimating has lead to a series of policy errors on the part of the government. Since we in this House have no evidence to suggest the government has taken any corrective action in this area, and thus, since we can have little or no faith in current government estimates
of energy reserves in this country, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Lisgar (Mr. Murta):
That the Standing Committee on National Resources and Public Works be authorized to inquire immediately into the reasons behind the government's consistent mis-estimating of Canada's energy reserves and to recommend corrective action to ensure that future energy forecasts are based on more sound and reliable data.


Pursuant to Standing Order 43 the motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I ask the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion of urgent and pressing necessity.
Since the government feels that there is a surplus of industrial milk and that the surplus of fluid milk is sent to processing industries, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Roberval (Mr. Gauthier):
That the House urge the government to restore the fluid milk subsidy, to increase its consumption and decrease the volume of industrial milk.


Order. The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under the provisions of Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there such consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent; therefore, the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I request unanimous consent of the House to present a motion dealing with an important and urgent matter.

November 24, 1975
National Parks
Considering that the Quebec Minister of Social Affairs has offered the federal government to distribute family allowance cheques before December 5 through its distribution system so that low income families and people on welfare, who are waiting for these cheques, may be able to buy food and other essentials, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe (Mr. Wagner):
That family allowances cheques be distributed within the next three days, either by letter carriers, if they want to, or as suggested by the Quebec government.


Order. The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to the terms of Standing Order 43, the motion requires unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Yes.


No.


As there is not unanimous consent, the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity to my constituency concerning the government's proposed $30 million expansion of the St. Lawrence Islands National Park, and particularly arising out of the inconclusive and unsatisfactory meeting held last Thursday between about 500 of my constituents and officials of Parks Canada in what could rapidly become, if not speedily dealt with, another Pickering fiasco. I would move, seconded by the hon. member for Parry Sound-Mus-koka (Mr. Darling):
That the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development accept the invitation that has been extended to him to personally attend with any necessary department officials a public meeting to be open to hundreds of property owners in Leeds who feel that their homes and businesses are threatened by the government's present plans for enlarging the St. Lawrence Islands National Park, that the government be prepared to answer clearly and forthrightly all questions proposed at such a meeting and finally that the people of the area be permitted the democratic right of expressing their views and obtaining answers on this matter before the government proceeds any further whatsoever with its plans.


Order, please. Pursuant to Standing Order 43 the motion cannot be presented without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity relating to Air Canada and the position of some of its employees here and in the United States. I move, seconded by the hon. member for Central Nova (Mr. MacKay):
That the Minister of Transport look into the situation with regard to the five Air Canada employees in New York City who state that the management of the company has not given them any moral of financial support in their successful efforts to acquit themselves of serious criminal charges of gold theft laid in an apparently hasty way while the employees were at work and that the minister look into and review as well the job security status of those Air Canada employees whose long tenure of service may be jeopardized unfairly by any staff re-alignment policies of the company, if they are not implemented with great care, and report to this House or the standing committee on an appropriate occasion.


Pursuant to Standing Order 43 the motion cannot be put without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the right hon. Prime Minister. Last Friday it was indicated on behalf of the government that if the postal union were to accept the fact that the monetary offer by the government was all that was going to be offered, then serious and successful negotiations could take place. I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government has been advised that the union accepts the fact that the total monetary package offered by the government in connection with the postal strike cannot go beyond the government's final offer, although there might be some readjustment of the offer, and, if so, are serious negotiations about to resume today?


I would have to ask the Postmaster General to answer that question. To my knowledge the union has been advised. It has been stated publicly by the Postmaster General and by myself, and that should be advice enough. But I am sure the Postmaster General has made that advice clear in his private discussions, too.


I recognize that the information has no doubt been given to the union. My question relates to
November 24, 1975

whether or not the union has accepted that there is no way in which the government's financial offer will be increased. I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he has been advised of any significant change of events that would lead to negotiations being resumed in the very near future.


I must say that I have not been advised by the union that they accepted the government's position, and that is presumably why the strike is going on. I do know that there have been some officious meetings with the representatives of the Post Office and of the union. I do not know to what extent they are publicly known and I would hesitate to say any more at this time.


assume the Prime Minister is using the word "officious" in the sense of the French language, as distinguished from official. I would like to ask the Prime Minister the following question. In view of the extent to which the government has already limited the scope of collective bargaining under the government's guidelines laying down the increases in wages which are permissible, how does the government justify its continued refusal to intervene to protect the public interest and what is the government's real reason for not asking parliament to restore this essential service?


I answered these very same questions at the end of last week. My answers are the same.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that the government has called upon parliament for legislation to end strikes three times in the past two years, and in view of the fact that the stoppages in two of these instances, namely, the dock strike at the west coast and the strike at the St. Lawrence ports, were of a much shorter duration than the present 36 days of the postal shutdown, will the Prime Minister now clarify the government's reasons for refusing to introduce back to work legislation so that mail service can be restored while negotiation or mediation is carried on?


In respect of answers which have been given on previous days to that particular question, of course the situation changes each day, and therefore a fresh question is always permissible, even though the same question had been asked 24 hours earlier, which is special in circumstances of this sort. However, it would be a flagrant abuse of the rules to allow the repetition of a question by two consecutive members on the same day, a question which has been answered by the Prime Minister and which is precisely the one the hon. member for Vancouver Quadra seeks to put.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker,
I have a question for the Prime Minister arising from answers given by the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources on Friday. The Minister of Finance said in the House in reply to a question about the price of oil and the guidelines, and I quote: "they do apply to petroleum companies as they do to anyone else, but not to the OPEC countries", he said with insight. However, the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources said in reply to a question by the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands that indeed the white paper makes it clear that the oil industry is in a separate category from those covered by the white paper. I wonder if the Prime Minister would clarify this apparent contradiction between the two ministers' statements.


Mr. Speaker, I apologize, I have not had time to review Hansard for Friday, but I think 1 can explain what puzzles the hon. member. In so far as the price of crude is concerned, obviously the guidelines do not apply because it is set by federal-provincial agreement. It was set for a period of 15 months, I believe, until July 1 next, and the federal and provincial governments plan to get together in the first half of next year to try to arrive at another agreed price for petroleum. In that sense, the guidelines do not apply. The price is set administratively by arrangement.
In another sense, the guidelines do apply, and in that sense the companies will not be able to increase their prices by more than the increase in their costs. That is the general rule of the guidelines, and it will apply to them. In this case the cost of the raw material will be fixed administratively, as I have just indicated. The labour costs will be fixed by bargaining under the rules. There may be other costs, such as executive salaries, and so on. All these various costs will fall under the guidelines, and the pass through rule will apply.


In view of the fact that the principal reason for price increases in oil in the last few years has been the increase in the wellhead price, which the Prime Minister just said has been settled in the past by negotiations with the provinces, and since, however, the government in its white paper sets out that in terms of its policy it will permit, through a staging process, the wellhead price to rise to world price levels, has the governm'ent not stated its position, in terms of its ultimate effect on the consumer price, that it has decided not to keep the price of oil down in Canada?


The reason the price at the wellhead has been allowed to rise-although considerably less than world prices-is due, first of all, to the decision of the OPEC nations to increase the world price of oil. This put pressure on the NDP and Conservative governments in particular provinces in the west to seek a higher price, preferably world prices, if they could. We resisted the NDP and Tory governments as much as we could and obtained a compromise, which we think is much better for Canadian

November 24, 1975
Oral Questions
people than had we gone to world prices. I must admit that the NDP and Tory governments in the provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta were willing to go along with this in the public interest. We were not able to keep the prices as low as perhaps we would have liked, at least in the first stage, but we think that through their co-operation we have finally arrived at a price which is good for the Canadian people. It does cost the consumer a bit more, but I hope the hon. member will realize that those natural resources were under the constitutional jurisdiction of the NDP government in Saskatchewan and the Tory government in Alberta, and we struck what we thought was the best possible compromise.


Mr. Speaker, I know the Prime Minister would not want to distort the position of the government of Saskatchewan, at least intentionally. Since it is Premier Blakeney's view, both in the past and at present, that no increase should be permitted in the wellhead price of oil unless the future gains from that increase are used for further development-and he attached and always has attached that kind of position to the increase in price-and since at least one of the premiers directly involved has expressed that view, I should like to ask the Prime Minister why the federal government, in its anti-inflation program, does not attach that as a condition of all future price increases and make it mandatory if oil companies are going to get an increase that all such money be devoted to future exploration?


Mr. Speaker, this question has been dealt with by the previous minister of energy, mines and resources at federal-provincial conferences and in this House. We examined Premier Blakeney's position, which I repeat was one of wanting a considerably higher price for the oil sold-


For exploration.


-out of Saskatchewan. He had some scheme to put it in a special fund, I believe, in order that it serve the energy needs of the people of Canada. The Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources has given some very specific figures indicating the use to which any increment or windfall that had accrued to the federal government through the increased price, was indeed serving the energy needs of the people of Canada. To mention only one figure, $l1/2 billion was budgeted for the equalization of the price of oil in the eastern part of Canada with the western part of Canada, and a large part of that indeed comes from the fact that we have been able to draw some benefit for the Canadian taxpayer from the export tax on oil products.


Mr. Speaker, upon the Minister of Agriculture's return from the World Food Conference in Rome where he must have learned new ways of administering his department, I should like to ask him the following question. Several times I raised the matter of social prejudice suffered by the Canadian dairy industry due to massive imports of cheese. As it seems that total cheese imports for this year reach more than 50 million pounds despite agreements concluded with producers within the overall quota system, can the minister tell the House whether he is prepared to review his position very soon in that regard and what steps he plans to take?


Mr. Speaker, we are living within the agreement on production that we announced last April. We have told the producers the amount to produce and they agreed to what we suggested. They are concerned about the importation of speciality cheese from abroad, but there will not be more than 50 million pounds brought into Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a supplementary question. Given the overproduction of industrial milk in Canada, is the minister prepared to accept our proposal and send our milk surplus to Third World countries, which badly need it, in order to help them on one hand and, on the other hand, to dispose of our surplus and sustain our milk industry?


Mr. Speaker, the main surplus product we have in Canada at the present time is skim milk powder. There is a world surplus of skim milk powder-in Europe, New Zealand and all the countries producing it at the present time. We have ample supplies and are trying to find placement for areas of need but it is most difficult.


Mr. Speaker, I have a final supplementary for the right hon. Prime Minister.
So as to be able to take fast and efficient steps to resolve this problem of industrial milk and other agricultural product surpluses, could the right hon. Prime Minister say whether he is prepared to undertake to entrust the Department of Agriculture with the responsibility for importing and exporting dairy products and all other agricultural products?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is asking a question regarding the internal organization of the government. Of course, I respect the hon. member's views, but I assure him that I organize the ministerial council in such a way as to get the maximum output.
November 24, 1975


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Postmaster General. In view of the grave injustice being done to hundreds of thousands of Canadians who have money, important merchandise, business contracts, prepaid Christmas mail orders, including Christmas presents for children which cannot be replaced due to insufficient family cash, and other vital mail tied up as a result of the postal strike, may I ask if the Postmaster General can use any mechanism whereby that mail can be released for delivery in the near future, and clear the post office system?


Mr. Speaker, the obvious answer is for the union to come to their senses and bring an end to the strike. In the absence of that, I might mention that 165 post offices are open. The hon. member might relate to me his particular difficulty, as I understand that most Alberta postal office employees are now back at work.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. This being a national problem, and the bulk of the mail being tied up in large centres like Toronto and Winnipeg, I do not think action in specific cases will clear the system. I wonder if the minister can do something to clear the system once and for all, so that people can either get their orders filled or money back.


Mr. Speaker, as we approach Christmas I sum up by saying I would rather be Santa Claus than Scrooge.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Solicitor General. Since it has become public knowledge that among documents and effects taken by the RCMP from the apartment adjacent to Senator Giguere's were ledger cards of engineers and architects, can the Solicitor General tell the House whether the engineers and architects involved or any of the documentation taken have any connection with the Mirabel project?


Mr. Speaker, we do not report the details of police investigations while those investigations are still under way.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the Solicitor General give the House and country any indication of the apparent
Oral Questions
length of time it will take the RCMP to complete those investigations? Are we talking of days, weeks or months? Also, will the minister table the search warrant and documents detailing the inventory of what was taken, since these documents have already been put on display on national television?


Mr. Speaker, I checked with the RCMP and they cannot say definitely when this investigation will be completed. New evidence leads to new sources of inquiry, and so on. It is impossible to give the date-


Does the minister mean a judicial inquiry?


No, Mr. Speaker. The police investigation is proceeding quite well, but we do not discuss details of police inquiries in the House of Commons. If I may answer the second part of the hon. member's question, I will look into the matter, see if the documents can be tabled and report to the House.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Solicitor General. I appreciate that details of police investigations are not released, although the subject matter is often discussed in the House. As a search warrant is only issued after it is sworn that there are reasonable and probable grounds for the belief that an offence has been committed, and as the search warrant under which the police acted in seizing documents from Senator Giguere's office and residence included "all letters, notes, memoranda and other writings relating to the collection of moneys for the Liberal party of Canada" between certain relevant dates, can the Solicitor General say if the subject matter of the police investigation in this instance is whether all or part of the $95,000 went to the coffers of the treasury of the Liberal party?


Mr. Speaker, I must check that, as well. I saw the information which was sworn in order to obtain that search warrant and I talked to the RCMP about it. They tell me that the investigation is of a broader nature than one merely involving Sky Shops.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Public Works. In view of the fact that until recently Senator Giguere was a director of the Cam-peau Corporation, the company building the $160 million Les Terrasses de la Chaudiere in Hull, Quebec, a multi-million urban commercial complex, of which 1.7 million square feet of office space is to be rented by the federal government, has that senator played any role whatsoever

November 24, 1975
Oral Questions
in the official or non-official negotiations pertaining to that project?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I can state definitively. The answer is no.


Mr. Speaker, the Solicitor General has already said that he does not discuss details of police reports while an investigation is taking place. I have also heard him say that he does not table reports after an investigation is completed. Will the minister give us any assurance that when these investigations are completed, the police reports will be tabled in the House?


No, Mr. Speaker, I will not. The reason we do not table police reports in many cases is that if a police investigation proves to be negative, it would be completely contrary to the civil rights of the individuals involved to publish the details of the investigation for every one to see. Very often allegations are made against many individuals and it is the responsibility of the police to investigate those allegations. In a great number of cases, the allegations are found to be false. If that is the case, I do not think it is right to publish them in the House of Commons.


expected that, Mr. Speaker. I knew that was what the Solicitor General would say. Therefore, I have to ask the members of the government why they keep hiding behind the fact that a police investigation is being made into something that very closely touches the government, parliament and this country. Does the Prime Minister not think it is now time for a public investigation into the whole affair relating to Senator Giguere and alleged conflicts of interest? In view of reports of police raids, search warrants and evidence of substantial sums being paid, a prima facie indication of a substantial conflict of interest, will the Prime Minister set the minds of the Canadian public at ease and order a public inquiry at this time?


Mr. Speaker, I had occasion earlier to remind the House that Senator Giguere offered to testify in front of a committee of the Senate, a committee of his peers, to answer to any aspect that might worry them. I understand from the Solicitor General that the police investigation is proceeding as it should. A great deal of documents have been seized from the Senator. The police investigation is proceeding. If the tables were turned and had we seized under warrant the documents of some Tory member of parliament, we would hear screams about the intervening of the police into the affairs of a member of parliament. I would not, as might
|Mr. Ellis.]
the Leader of the Opposition, be inclined to put into public inquiry areas which are being thoroughly investigated by the police until there is some evidence that the police cannot carry out their role because of some difficulty of which I know nothing at this time.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Has Canada entered into an agreement with other nations which produce or can produce nuclear reactors for a new set of safeguards against the diversion into weapon material by purchasers, and will the minister at the first opportunity table in the House any such agreement?


Mr. Speaker, there have been discussions among the nuclear suppliers to arrive at upgraded standards. I have not had an up-to-date report on whether a final agreement has been reached, but when such has happened, I will certainly consider making its contents known to the House.


Will the minister advise whether the agreement with South Korea for the sale of a nuclear reactor, which sale the minister stated in the House several weeks ago was nearly completed, has been completed and how soon that agreement can be tabled in the House, as the minister agreed it should be?


Mr. Speaker, the agreement has not been signed with South Korea. The authorizing order-incouncil will be sought at an early date with a view to signing such an agreement. When an agreement is signed, I will certainly make every effort to have its contents available to members of the House. I certainly will table the agreement.


In the absence of the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, Mr. Speaker, I will direct my question to his parliamentary secretary. Considering the latest request from the Coalition for Nuclear Responsibility, can the parliamentary secretary tell the House whether the government is planning to launch a public inquiry into the use of nuclear energy in Canada? As the parliamentary secretary probably knows, this weekend this important group called for a re-examination of the use of nuclear energy in Canada, its effect on
November 24, 1975

Oral Questions
the environment and so forth. Is the government planning to soon have an inquiry into the impact of nuclear energy use in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I can say that no decision has been made on this. As the hon. member will know, there is already a public inquiry in the province of Ontario into all other methods of producing electricity. I will take note of the hon. member's suggestion and report back to him.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Considering that the Quebec government has offered the federal government to distribute family allowance cheques, so that people in the low income bracket may use this money they have been waiting for since November 20, could the minister advise the House whether he intends to contact the proper authorities and expedite the distribution of the family allowance cheques which these people need to feed themselves?


Mr. Speaker, the most effective and rapid distribution method remains that proposed by the Minister of Supply and Services. In the case of those who are in need and who immediately require the family allowance equivalent, may I remind the hon. member that the emergency services provided for under the Canada Assistance Plan are available. Every province may take advantage of them to advance all needy families the money they need, and the federal government will share equally in the cost of these advances made to needy families. This is already available, and the provinces have all been encouraged to make use of the emergency services provided under the Canada Assistance Plan.


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask a supplementary question.
Could the minister tell the House then whether he intends to advise his counterparts in Quebec of what he has just told us? They do not seem to be aware of this opportunity since they do not use it?


Mr. Speaker, I must tell the hon. member that for several days now we have been in contact with every one of the provinces

including Quebec-on this subject.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In view of the threats by Shahik Al-Hout that world-wide pressure will be applied to Canada if we refuse permission to any member of the PLO to attend the Human Settlements Conference next year, will the minister publicly reject this attempt at blackmail by a person who is in this country on a ministerial permit and assure Canadians that the government will exercise her sovereign right to reject admittance to the conference of any person who violates her immigration laws or regulations?


The policy has been clearly stated. It is that members of prohibited organizations will only be allowed in by ministerial permit and then only if it is established that they are not, individually, terrorists or members of terrorist sub-groups. If they were in those categories, permission to enter would be denied.


A supplementary to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs. In the light of the statement by the Minister of Manpower and Immigration and of recent statements by Shahik Al-Hout, would the minister advise the United Nations Secretary General that Canada will not submit to threats such as we have heard in the past week by any delegation which is using the conference as a propaganda forum for its own political ends?


Unfortunately, I did not hear either the original question or the answer given by my colleague. Thus, it is difficult for me to deal with the supplementary. I was rather busy building houses here.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Solicitor General. With reference to the search warrant with respect to the residence of Senator Giguere, I should like to ask the minister whether at the same time a warrant was issued to search the premises of the Liberal Party of Canada? Was a request made by the RCMP to do this and, if not, why not?


Mr. Speaker, we do not give out details of police investigations in the House of Commons.

November 24, 1975
Oral Questions INCOME TAX


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Revenue. It has to do with the plan of the Government of Saskatchewan to nationalize the potash industry in that province. In the event such nationalization takes place the loss to the federal treasury in company taxes would be very heavy. I ask the minister whether or not, having regard to the developments which are taking place along this line, not only in Saskatchewan but elsewhere, the government will bring in legislation to provide that a corporation set up by a provincial government in the course of nationalizing an industry within a province will still be liable for income tax?


I do
not think we need new legislation. I believe the Minister of Finance has indicated that such a corporation would be liable to taxation.


To make it perfectly clear, if this potash industry is nationalized, can the minister say directly that the company set up by the government, the government agency, will be liable for income tax? If so, I would think there would be general approbation.


Order.' I do not like to interfere with a line of questioning but the right hon. gentleman is asking, first of all, whether something might happen after a certain event has taken place, and that is somewhat hypothetical. Moreover, he is asking the minister for a legal opinion here in the House. Perhaps the question might be rephrased. If the minister wishes to answer, I do not want to obstruct the right hon. member; it is a point which I am sure is very interesting to all members. As it is, the right hon. gentleman is asking the minister to give a legal opinion and, moreover, to presuppose the existence of certain circumstances which do not exist now and are therefore hypothetical.


Mr. Speaker, there is nothing hypothetical about that question. It is being carried out and I am asking whether or not the Canadian people as a whole are to be denied the company income tax. It is as simple as that. It does not ask for a legal opinion in any way, with great deference to Your Honour.


If the Department of Finance tells us to collect the tax we shall collect the tax.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Bearing in mind the right hon. gentleman's statements that the government does not intend to pick up any part of the Olym-

pic deficit, could the House be told whether the government has been approached formally or informally, directly or indirectly, by the Government of Quebec, the City of Montreal or by COJO itself with a view to the federal government taking up part of the deficit, and, if so, who made the approach?


The
answer to all those questions is no.


Would the Prime Minister indicate whether any consideration has been given to financing, within the City of Montreal or within the Province of Quebec, certain developments which, if not financed by the federal government, would ordinarily be financed by the province, on the understanding that if the Province of Quebec takes up the deficit incurred by the Olympics the federal government would share in the financing of those other projects?


I do not know what the hon. member has in mind, if he has anything in mind, which I doubt. I wish he would be more explicit.


Oh, oh!


When I used the words earlier, "directly or indirectly" I took it they would cover that question.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Does the minister intend to look into the situation with regard to the five Air Canada employees in New York City who state that the management of the company has not given them any moral or financial support in their successful efforts to acquit themselves of serious criminal charges of gold theft laid, apparently, in an improper way while the employees were at work?


I have a report on that situation and I am informed that while the corporation feels it improper to accept responsibility for legal fees-as is the case with almost any other employer- the employees in question were reinstated and with no loss of pay.


Could the minister investigate to see whether these employees are properly bonded?


I will look into that.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs regarding

November 24, 1975
Mrs. Joanna Psarski of Georgetown, Ontario, who came to Canada a few years ago as a landed immigrant, along with her husband, and who returned to Poland for a visit on the death of her father and is now being kept in that country. I should like to commend the minister for his attempts to intercede with the Polish government with a view to getting permission for her return, and wonder whether he could bring the House up to date on the present situation as far as Mrs. Psarski's possible return to Canada is concerned.


No, Mr. Speaker, I cannot bring the House up to date today but I shall attempt to do so later this week.


Might I address a supplementary to the Prime Minister? If it turns out that Mrs. Psarski is still unable to leave Poland with the permission of the Polish government, will the right hon. gentleman consider facilitating the passage of a unanimous resolution by the House asking the Polish government for its co-operation on humanitarian grounds to allow her to return to her husband in Georgetown?


It is a fact that in many instances the government of Canada has intervened with heads of state on humanitarian grounds, so the principle of such action is not foreign to us. However, in any particular case I would submit to the judgment of the Secretary of State for External Affairs.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the desirability of Canada being self-sufficient in energy supplies in the foreseeable future, and since the National Energy Board now projects only a six-year supply for this country, can the right hon. gentleman tell us whether the government is contemplating any new initiative by way of tax incentives to encourage further exploration or more speedy development of the tar sands in order to ensure sufficiency of supply?


I would have to make a complete statement of our energy policy in order to answer that question in any satisfactory way, and I do not think this is the time to do so.


With regard to ensuring quicker development of the Athabasca tar sands, is the government willing to give certain assurances to potential developers there that all their products will be allowed to be marketed and, second, that they can reasonably expect to receive the international price for it?


Here again, the question is general in its nature. However, if it related to any specific request I would have to examine the particular circumstances. On
Oral Questions
the international price, I believe this has been made part of our policy statement in that we would allow the price for such petroleum to reach or to tend toward the international price. I believe the expression "international price" was used, but I am not sure. I am sure a statement has been made in this regard, but perhaps I could take note of the question so the minister will be able to answer when he is back in the House.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.
Over the weekend, a consummer association advised me that the price of coffee has shot up exorbitantly. Today, over the radio, the same news was confirmed and the government was blamed for not stepping in. May I ask the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs whether it falls within his jurisdiction to check into the matter and ascertain whether prices have increased inordinately, and what position he intends to take to protect the consumers with regard to the price of coffee?


Mr. Speaker, it is unfortunate that the price of coffee should have gone up so much. The hon. member should know that the product is imported and that we have very little control over the international price which is unfortunately very high indeed. The price has been going up for several months now. Still, I cannot resist the temptation of telling the hon. member, who comes from a rural area, that he should perhaps encourage the people to drink less coffee and more milk.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary. I take notice of the suggestion of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and I shall stress my procedure to meet his wish. However, I would like to ask him very seriously whether the board established under Bill C-73 will have some say in the control over the prices of these imported goods or whether they can be left absolutely free so that those who sell these products will be able to increase their prices immoderately?


No, Mr. Speaker, for all the other food products sold in stores employing more than 500 people, these stores will have to comply with the government guidelines. It means that these stores will not be allowed to increase the prices by more than the rise in production costs. Where it is not possible to establish these costs the stores will have to set a price level which is not higher than 95 per cent of the average profits these stores made over the five previous years. This procedure is extremely rigorous, Mr. Speaker, and this leads me to say that I am not at all surprised to see some food chains announce a price freeze for the next months.

November 24, 1975
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that over the last three months it has been brought to the attention of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs that the major motor car companies did offer extended warranties, which were kept secret, in respect of certain qualitative defects on certain models in the years from 1969 to 1973, and in view of the fact that in July the minister told this House he would ask these motor car companies to co-operate with his department in order to make sure the consumers would get the benefits of these extended warranties and have their cars fixed at the companies' expense, and bearing in mind that these companies have dragged their feet in co-operating with the department and the government, will the minister now tell the House what steps his department intends to take in view of this feet dragging by the car manufacturers?


Mr. Speaker, first, my department established a special work force that coordinates its activities and investigates complaints made by consumers. Second, meetings are taking place with representatives of the automobile industry and I can assure the hon. member that my department follows up thoroughly any inquiry filed by consumers. Moreover, the Automobile Protection Association also makes representations on behalf of consumers and submits complaints to the court when necessary.


Mr. Speaker, last week the President of the Treasury Board stated in this House that further legislation to assist the financing of the trouble-plagued Olympics will not be introduced at this time. Can it be assumed, therefore, that such legislation is in fact being considered for some other time in the future and, if not, can he assure us that no further legislation in fact will be introduced at this or at any other time?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to the first part of the question is no. I do not have to comment on the second.


Mr. Speaker, because of the fact that original cost estimates for the Olympic Games, as we know, have more than tripled, primarily due to the mismanagement of COJO and city of Montreal officials, will the

President of the Treasury Board assure this House that direct federal costs, and I am referring to security, immigration, CBC and others, will not increase from their original estimates as well?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think that the anticipated cost of the federal services which are to be made available for the Olympic Games have increased in a way which may be compared to the higher outlays mentioned in connection with the development of the Olympic site itself and if there is an increase it is marginal.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to ask a question of the Minister of State (Fisheries).
I want him to refer to my questions of last week concerning the bilateral agreements on territorial waters. With how many countries, besides Norway, does the minister hope to conclude bilateral agreements and has a schedule for such negotiations been established?


Mr. Speaker, as far as I remember, I can list Spain, Portugal, Poland and the USSR; preliminary discussions are being held with Japan. The first round of talks with the United States did take place. As for the schedule, we have some problems in coordinating dates. We believe that the negotiations with all those countries will be initiated before mid-January.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question.
Has the minister now turned from multilateral to bilateral negotiations?


Not at all, Mr. Speaker, but I must remind the hon. member that, unilateral or multilateral, the extension of the jurisdiction will require bilateral negotiations with the countries which have been fishing off the Canadian coasts.


Mr. Speaker, last Friday the Acting Prime Minister stated he was unaware of the resignation of Mr. Worsdale, chairman of CEMA. Could the Minister of Agriculture now confirm whether Mr. Worsdale has resigned and, if so, for what reasons?


Mr. Speaker, I know he has resigned, but I have not been
November 24, 1975

talking with Mr. Worsdale and I have not seen any correspondence. As a result, I have no knowledge of why he resigned.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the President of the Treasury Board and is supplementary to a question of my colleague, the hon. member for York-Simcoe. In light of the announcement by the government of Quebec, that it is to assume some of the responsibility for the planning and building of Olympic facilities, and since this decision will place a strain on the budget of the province of Quebec, will these additional expenses be considered when transfer payments from other provinces are considered?


I do not think that would be a factor in establishing the equalization payments to the provinces, but I will check and report to the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that the Minister of National Health and Welfare has stated the government wishes to ensure that within a reasonable period of time the ratio of male to female employees in the Public Service in each department, occupational group and level will approximate the proportion of qualified and interested personnel of both sexes available, I am wondering whether the minister is proposing that rather than a straight merit system the government will be introducing legislation or regulations providing for a quota system to assure that an increased percentage of positions will be filled by females?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member cares to look further in the speech I delivered from which he quoted he will find the determination of this government is to ensure proper and fair representation to women in the Public Service of this country.


Mr. Speaker, I would rather not try to be partisan in this matter or get kudos from the backbenchers. What I am trying to determine is whether the minister can explain whether or not they have decided on a quota system or whether they will rule out a quota system.
Order Paper Questions


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member again can look at my speech. I have explained exactly how the system will work. There will be full co-operation by all departments under the direction of the Treasury Board in which the departments are invited to propose targets over the next five years in terms of promotion of women. The Treasury Board will review these targets with the department every year, and we will try to ensure, as I said in the speech, that all interested and able women who want to be promoted in the public service will be properly considered and will have their chance to be promoted.


for leave to introduce Bill C-76, intituled: "An Act to wind up The King George V Silver Jubilee Cancer Fund for Canada and to authorize the sale of the assets and securities of the Fund and to transfer the sale proceeds and the balance of moneys to the National Cancer Institute of Canada".


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: 2,878, 3,154, 3,290, 3,313 and 3,328.
I ask, Mr. Speaker, that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


1.	With reference to the answer to Question No. 2,394, is there any department which is prepared to divulge to the people and Parliament the dollar value of military equipment sold to other states and, if not, what is the reason for such secrecy?
2.	(a) To what countries in each year since 1963 has Canada sold military equipment (b) what was the nature of such equipment?


1. Dollar values of all Canadian exports, including military equipment, are published in Statistics Canada Catalogue 65-004 (monthly)

November 24, 1975
Order Paper Questions
"Exports by Commodities". With the exception of items classified under commodity class 930-99 (military weapons ordnance and parts), military equipment exports are not separately identified as such in this publication but are included in their appropriate commodity class. No department other than Industry, Trade and Commerce compiles statistics on all military equipment export sales as separate from all other export sales. Military equipment export
Country	1963	1964	1965	1966
Abu Dhabi				
Argentina	X	X	X	XAustralia	X	X	X	XAustria	X	X	X	XBahrain	Belgium	X	X	X	XBermuda	X	Bolivia	Botswana	Brazil	X	X	X	XBritain	X	X	X	XBrunei	XBurma	X	X	XCameroun	Ceylon	Chile	X	X	X	XColombia	X	X	X	XDenmark	X	X	X	XEcuador	X	Ethiopia	X	X	X	XFinland	France	X	X	X	XFederal Republic of Germany	X	X	X	XGhana	X	X	X	XGreece	X	X	X	XGuyana	Iceland	XIndia	X	X	X	XIndonesia	XIran	X	X	X	XIreland	Israel	X	X	X	XItaly	X	X	X	XJamaica	XJapan	X	X	X	XKenya	X	X	XKorea	Kuwait	X	Luxembourg	Malaysia	X	X	XMexico	X	Mozambique	X	Muscat and Oman	Netherlands	X	X	X	XNew Zealand	X	X	X	XNigeria	Norway	X	X	X	XPakistan	X	X	X	XPanama	Peru	X	X	XPhilippines	X	
sales figures as compiled by the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce contain information provided by Canadian companies on a voluntary and confidential basis and, therefore, details cannot be made available since such disclosure could be considered a breach of confidentiality and could compromise a company's competitive position.
2.	(a) Since 1963 Canada has sold military equipment to the countries as tabulated below:
1967	1968	1969	1970	1971	1972	1973	1974
	X			X			
X	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	XX	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	XXX	X	X	X	X	X	x:	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	XX	X	X	X	X	X	X	XX	X	