Mr. Speaker, under Standing Order 43, I ask the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that the Canadian people have been paying a prohibitive price for sugar in the past year, that the price of this product sold in Canada has dropped sharply in the last few weeks, and that the public is again concerned about a further price increase, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Shefford (Mr. Rondeau):
That this House urge the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce (Mr. Gillespie) and the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs (Mr. Ouellet) to look fully into the sugar trade and report to the House whether an increase in the price of sugar is justified.


Order. The house has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there such consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent, therefore the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, I seek the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the fact that the spring season has just opened, and in view of the generally depressed prices and the steadily rising costs to the fishermen, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Churchill (Mr. Smith):
That the minister implement a price support program for pickerel and whitefish sold to the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation.


The motion is proposed pursuant to Standing Order 43. It cannot be presented without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 to ask leave to move, seconded by the hon. member for Dauphin (Mr. Ritchie), the following motion:
That a special committee of this House be set up forthwith to investigate all activities of Soviet journalist Konstantin Geivandov while he was in Canada, that the committee be charged with examining all connections with this matter on the part of Mark Starowicz, executive producer of the CBC program "As It Happens", that the committee be given power to summon any persons whatsoever as witnesses that it deems advisable, that files on the matter including those of the Departments of Manpower and Immigration, External Affairs and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police showing the activities of Geivandov, Starowicz, and others, be produced to the committee and, finally, that such files, pending examination by the committee, be forthwith placed in the safe custody of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada to guarantee their safety from destruction for political or any other purposes whatsoever.


The motion is proposed pursuant to Standing Order 43 and requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Prime Minister concerning the tragic events at the British Columbia Penitentiary. Who made the decision not to provide the information of the offer from an unidentified

June 12, 1975
Oral Questions
country to the intermediaries between the inmates and hostages on the one hand and the authorities on the other? These intermediaries were again to meet those in the vault some three hours after the information concerning the offer from an unidentified country had initially been received by the Prime Minister.


Mr. Speaker, I am not quite sure at what level the communication had been communicated downwards. I was not responsible for that, but I think the responsibility for deciding who would be told is within the Solicitor General's authority. I would be prepared to say that I made the decision that we should not just tell the criminals that another country had offered to receive them until we had worked out a lot of other details.


The Prime Minister said he made the offer to tell the inmates that?


No. I said I would be as responsible as anyone for having made the decision not to tell the inmates that a country was prepared to receive them until certain consultations had taken place in British Columbia and until certain contingencies had been prepared for.


should like to ask the Prime Minister whether arrangements were made for consultation as the Prime Minister had indicated, and, if this was to be a matter for further study and consideration with the decision being ultimately made by members of the government here as to what was to happen next day, why was there not an earlier request by the Prime Minister and the Solicitor General to have an early assessment from the negotiators who were, I understand, the only ones who were in contact with the inmates and the prisoners, as to what would be their probable reaction to such a proposal, such an offer from this unidentified country? Why was there not a proper request for consultation with the intermediaries and feedback of their views to the Prime Minister, the Solicitor General and others? I ask this question particularly in view of the fact that everybody had been in this cell for 40 hours, obviously under conditions which might lead to a blow-up of some sort.


I am endeavouring to understand the question and the suggestion. Is it that we should have hypothetically asked the inmates what they would do if some country was prepared to receive them?


My question was this: why did the Prime Minister and the Solicitor General not request an immediate expression of opinion from the intermediaries as to how the inmates would react to the knowledge of such a proposal?


Then the suggestion is, I take it, that before the knowledge that some country might accept them-how could we ask them what their reaction would be to certain information which never existed?


May I remind the right hon. gentleman that according to public information, the Prime Minister and the Solicitor General had this knowledge some three hours before the intermediaries were going to see the inmates again that evening. Is the Prime Minister suggesting-I do not want to be argumentative, Mr. Speaker- that there was no time under these conditions to get an opinion from the intermediaries as to how the inmates would react to the knowledge of that offer? Was there no time for the government to get that information before everything was sort of shut down for the night?


Things were not shut down for the night. The Solicitor General and his officials and, indeed, ministers, were involved in this situation from the outset. We were examining various hypotheses which might fulfil themselves; we were working on various contingency plans. I told the House yesterday, and so did the Solicitor General, that as soon as we had some kind of positive answer from a country we began discussing the way in which it could best be put to the inmates, and the time at which it could best be put to them. I think the House and the country must understand that it would not necessarily have been a good solution for us to have bundled up both the criminals and the hostages and sent them off to a certain country. It is obvious that we had in some way to separate the hostages from the criminals, and it was a matter of finding a way in which this could best be done.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister. Yesterday in Hansard, as reported at page 6644, the Prime Minister said that with regard to the consideration of the offer by a foreign government the government was determining policy but "as the Solicitor General indicated in his answer, in consultation with the people who were in contact with the criminals". Since the intermediaries, from what we can gather, apparently knew nothing before their last visit to the vault, just who among the people in contact with the criminals were consulted in fact?


Mr. Speaker, I could not give names even if I had them, but that is what I had in mind in my first answer this afternoon when I said that I did not know at what level consultations with the people on the spot had taken place. After I spoke to the Solicitor General some time after eleven o'clock the night before last, he was to talk to his people on the spot to proceed with our plan to have certain consultations. I do not know exactly at what level those consultations were.


Then it is regrettable, Mr. Speaker, that the Solicitor General is not here today. In his absence perhaps the Prime Minister could answer
June 12, 1975

this question. Did the Prime Minister ask the Solicitor General to discuss this new situation with the intermediaries, and was the Prime Minister told by someone that these intermediaries were in fact being consulted on what should be done and, if so, who told the Prime Minister that these consultations were taking place?


Mr. Speaker, I did not direct the Solicitor General to speak to the intermediaries necessarily, those who were in contact with the inmates. I told him that he should get the people on the spot who were under his authority to report to him on the situation, and then to contact me and we would make other decisions.


A final supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, Yesterday, as reported at page 6643 of Hansard, the Prime Minister said that the second priority was to make sure "that the criminals themselves did not escape into some other country where they would go unharmed, and this was a priority that the government was determined to follow". At any time during the five hours preceding the resolution of this tragic event at the penitentiary did the government make up its mind that the offer of the unnamed country was acceptable in principle and, if so, when was that decision made and what was it?


Mr. Speaker, no, it would be impossible to make up one's mind in principle. It was important in the absolute present circumstances, not in theory but in practice, to know in which way we would separate the hostages from the criminals and that is what we were working at. I must remind the hon. member that if we had wanted to wash our hands of this it would have been relatively simple to bundle up the criminals and the hostages, put them on a plane and send them to some other country. But we felt it was better to take our responsibilities in Canada and to trust our guards and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police to take whatever action was necessary to ensure that separation, rather than to send Canadian hostages whom we wanted to hold harmless into some other country.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister, if I could have his attention for a moment.


He is busy swearing at people.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I would appreciate it if the House would continue to deal with this subject seriously and not facetiously. In view of the evidence that at the time of the death of Mary Steinhauser there were three reports issued, one saying that she had died by heart attack, another that she had died by knife wounds, and the third and correct report that she had died by a bullet
Oral Questions
wound, may I ask the Prime Minister this. In view of the fact that the government, as of necessity, has to be so intimately involved in this problem and in the decision making process, will the Prime Minister now reconsider yesterday's decision, announced by the Solicitor General, that it was preparing an inquiry under the Penitentiaries Act, which limits the inquiry to only a departmental investigation and not a public inquiry? Would he now reconsider that decision and call for a full public inquiry under the Inquiries Act so that someone outside the penitentiaries system can come in and assess this entire situation, which of necessity would include the decision made at that time by both those on the scene and those away from the scene?


Mr. Speaker, the Solicitor General, who unfortunately is ill today and cannot be in the House, announced yesterday that the decision of the government was it would be an inquiry under the Penitentiaries Act but by an outside person. I have nothing to add to that. If there are new facts which might change the decision of the Solicitor General I will make sure they are conveyed to him, and raise the matter with him again.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the Prime Minister's statement in the House yesterday that no final decision had been made in respect of the information concerning the country apparently willing to accept the prisoners, would the Prime Minister indicate what was the advice he had received from the penitentiary officials on the site regarding the question of whether the information should be communicated to the mediators, the hostages and the prisoners? What was the advice he had received from the officials on the site?


I had not
received any directly, Mr. Speaker, but in my communications with the Solicitor General it was indicated that the state of play was still as I indicated earlier, that consultations were going on, they were being assessed and plans were being made before the unfortunate series of events took place which brought the whole matter to a close.


Mr. Speaker, my last question concerns the new evidence that those who were involved in the mediation are concerned about, that is being excluded from the discussions toward the end of this unfortunate incident. Can the Prime Minister advise why the negotiators were suddenly excluded from the negotiations toward the end of that evening, I understand it was around eleven o'clock, and why no further negotiations or discussions took place between the mediators and the officials on the site? Why was it that these

Oral Questions
mediators were asked to leave, or why they went home? As a corollary to that question, I would urge the Prime Minister to again consider the matter of a public inquiry in view of the many, many questions which are now arising in the public mind. I would appreciate a response in terms of why the mediators were excluded toward the end of that evening.


Mr. Speaker, I do not know to what series of facts the hon. member is referring. I do not know what meetings they were excluded from and I do not know why. I am sure that when the Solicitor General is in full command of the facts he will make them known to the House, and I think this can be done without any type of inquiry. He will get to the bottom of the facts by himself. If he cannot do it that way he will, as he indicated yesterday, appoint an inquiry. The rest is a matter of policy and political judgment. I repeat that the minister, the government and myself are prepared to take the responsibility for the handling of these events. I must point out to the House that I did consult with the leaders of the three opposition parties on this matter, asking if they had any advice to give me. We had a good, frank exchange on a confidential basis. Then, the government went out and took its responsibilities. I repeat, the political and policy decisions were ours. There is no need for an inquiry to find out what they are; we are telling you what they are.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. I just want to make it clear, and I know the Prime Minister did not want to give any other impression, that the consultations took place long before this offer from an unidentified country had been received by the government.


That is quite right, Mr. Speaker. I did not intend to indicate that the responsibility was other than ours. Obviously, we did not get together after eleven o'clock that evening. I am trying to make clear to the House that we have two fundamental objectives that we are trying to pursue. One, which I am sure will have the support of this House, is not to create a situation where people in other penitentiaries or indeed in the same penitentiary might think that if they took similar action they would get safe conduct and be set free. This will not happen under my government.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.
Since the problem of sugar marketing is cropping up again and is of concern to all Canadians, may I ask the minister whether he could report to the House on the court case against the sugar combine in Canada? If he cannot

provide this information now, when does he expect to be in a position to do so?


Mr. Speaker, this case is presently before the Superior Court in Montreal and is not yet completed. We will therefore have to wait for the judgment. At all events, I must remind the hon. member that very fortunately, the price of sugar is dropping, and I hope it will drop even more in the coming weeks.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
Since I have received this morning representations from biscuit and candy manufacturers who are concerned about a further increase in the price of sugar, and since Canadians will no doubt be more concerned about a further price increase, could the minister tell the House whether such concern is justified and whether he anticipates an increase? If so, why?


Mr. Speaker, I would be very concerned if there should be an increase in sugar prices for the reasons the hon. member mentioned. I am not clear yet that there is any such indication, but I shall be pleased to make an inquiry and give the hon. member the information.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
We hear daily, especially in eastern Canada, that the price of sugar will go up in a matter of days now, and that exporting countries have reached a decision. Is the minister, who heads a department of experts, aware of that rumor? If so, to complete the question of my colleague from Bellechasse (Mr. Lambert), what steps does the minister or government intend to take to maintain employment in Canada and to protect consumers?


Mr. Speaker, I have already made clear to the previous member that I am not at all sure yet that there will be or that there is an inevitable increase in the price of sugar. I have indicated to him that I would be pleased to make an inquiry and give him the information. I suggest that the second part of the hon. member's question should be more properly addressed to my colleague the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister following the questions raised earlier. I wish to say we are just as anxious as he is to get to the bottom of this and are trying to separate fact from fiction. Yesterday I asked the Solicitor General at what time the authorities in British Columbia became aware of the fact that the hostages intended to try to overcome the inmates, which I thought was a very material question. The Solicitor General replied that this came without warning. As reported at page 6,656 of Hansard, I asked:
There was no advance warning?
The Solicitor General replied:
There was no advance warning whatsoever.
In light of the story in the Ottawa Citizen of today written by Jim Spears who served as a member of the negotiating committee and who was present during the few fateful hours in which he wrote:
Just before we were to meet them, prison authorities got word that the hostages planned to attack the inmates.
I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he would check with the Solicitor General to find out which story is correct, the story the Solicitor General gave us earlier or the story of the member of the negotiating team as recounted in his article?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that drugs were released to the hostages and that two of those hostages are now under doctors' care and a number of others are still quite seriously ill this morning, can he advise the House who in the government authorized the release of drugs and in particular of a drug called Noludar, to the inmates for use on the hostages?


I will inquire. I am sure it was the medical doctors on the spot who advised this.


My supplementary question relates to the period of time when the hostages were making up their minds to attack the inmates. Can the Prime Minister advise me, in view of the fact that one of the hostages said they received a message "that the pen was ready to move when the hostages made a move against the inmates", who authorized a secret message to be sent to the hostages which was totally opposed to what the government was trying to do at that time?
Oral Questions


I did not know about this alleged message. I will inquire into it.


I have a final supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, which is very simple. Where is the Solicitor General today when he should be in the House answering questions about a very serious matter?


Hear, hear!


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Prime Minister. In light of the fact that the Prime Minister said he wanted to make certain that this government would not leave any impression that bargains would be made with criminals in the future, and in light of the fact that many questions were left unanswered today and that the whole system of security control in the penitentiaries should be examined carefully because that is what caused this situation, namely the breakdown of security and control, would the Prime Minister not reconsider his position and establish a royal commission to examine the whole system of security and control in penitentiaries?


I must point out to the hon. member that the premise to his question is incorrect. I did not say that bargains would not be made with prisoners; I said we would make sure they would not escape free.


The Prime Minister has cleared up one fact for us. In light of the fact that there are other questions which he could not answer, will he now reconsider his position on the question of security and control in penitentiaries which must have broken down in the B.C. penitentiary and examine the whole system right across the board to assure the people who are employed in those institutions of protection against criminals of this kind?


I repeat, we believe that the inquiry under the Penitentiaries Act can shed much light on the facts. I must point out to the hon. member that in one question he creates fiction and when I restate the facts, he states that I am clearing up some matter. I cannot be responsible for the fiction that was created on the other side or in the press.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister and it arises out of the quite justifiable concern of many Canadians, particularly those located in the vicinity of federal prisons, about the possibility of future attempted escapes. What measures does the government intend to take immediately to increase security in federal prisons?
6678

June 12, 1975
Oral Questions
For example, does the government have plans at present to increase staffing in federal prisons?


I will be glad to take notice of that question on behalf of the Solicitor General.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Prime Minister whether the federal government is giving consideration to establishing a crisis team similar to that being established this summer by the government of Ontario to deal with such situations in the future. Can the Prime Minister also tell the House what involvement, if any, the Police Security Planning and Analysis Group had in this particular instance.


I think it is sufficient to say that we met and were in contact with all relevant officials at the relevant times. So far as crisis planning is concerned, the hon. member might remember that quite a long while ago we did indicate our position on the setting up of that group.


Mr. Speaker, there must be some confusion in the Prime Minister's mind regarding what I was asking. The first part of my question related to creation of a special crisis team by the Ontario Provincial Police which would be mobile and which would help in such situations, for example, when hostages are taken. The second part of my question was what involvement did the Police Security Planning and Analysis Group have. I wonder if the Prime Miinister might be able to address himself to that.


It was to that I addressed myself.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of the statement of the Argentine Ambassador to Canada which appeared in yesterday's press in which he was quoted as saying:
All nations should have the same rights, including the possibility of producing nuclear weapons ...
This right is a "treasure to be shared by everyone".
He also added that his country is "jealous of her sovereignty". I want to ask the Prime Minister whether he would undertake to ascertain from the government of Argentina whether or not the views expressed by that government's ambassador in Canada represent the official position of the government of Argentina, and if it does, will the Prime Minister assure the House that the government will reconsider its decision to continue with the negotiations for the sale of a CANDU reactor to Argentina?


Mr. Speaker, may I be permitted to reply as the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs.

My department immediately got in touch with the Argentine embassy when it saw this report. We asked for a clarification and we were told that it distorts what both the Argentine authorities concerned and the ambassador personally have said about the peaceful aims of that country in developing nuclear energy.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the President of the Privy Council whether I am to understand that before the government agrees to sell a nuclear reactor to the Argentine government there will be a twofold requirement, first, that they must be a signatory of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and, secondly, that they must sign a bilateral safeguard treaty with the government of Canada? I want to ask if those two conditions will be strictly applied with respect to any such sale.


The signing of the NPT is not an essential requirement. The Argentine government has undertaken not to use Canadian supplies for any explosive purposes, and the Argentine authorities have reaffirmed their general dedication to the exclusively peaceful use of nuclear energy. We are now engaged in negotiations with that country concerning the safeguards to be applied.


May I
point out to the minister that India gave similar assurances to the government of Canada.


Hear, hear!


Therefore, I want to ask the minister if any agreement or treaty which the government of Canada will require the government of Argentina to sign will be the same agreement containing the same stipulations, terms and conditions as that which is being applied to South Korea? In other words, I am asking the minister if this is to be a standard agreement or if agreements are to be changed from country to country depending on the wishes of a particular country.


The hon. gentleman knows very well that we did not have an agreement with India regarding peaceful explosions. It is our intention to have such an agreement with Argentina. It is the stated policy of the Government of Canada that we will not supply nuclear materials or nuclear technology to any country which does not agree in advance by written agreement to abide by our standards. That will apply to Argentina as it applies to everyone else.

June 12, 1975


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Justice. I am constrained to ask it because I know the cockles of his heart were warmed with compassion by what happened yesterday in Saskatchewan.


Hear, hear!


Great campaign, Otto. Keep up the good work.


Some weeks ago when the Supreme Court of Canada upheld the appellate court decision in the province of Quebec and substituted the verdict of the jury of not guilty with a verdict of guilty by stating that guilt had been proven, the minister said that this would not happen for five years and that there was no necessity to be concerned. He was even prepared to leave the bench on that basis. I will not enter into the merits of abortions and the like, but we again find that Morgentaler has been acquitted and again the Minister of Justice in the province of Quebec has launched an appeal to the court of appeal of Quebec. In other words, they are apparently launching an orgy of persecution. Will the minister under the circumstances, and in order to prevent courts from deciding that they know more than juries and substituting their views for the decision of 12 good men and women, now bring in amendments to the Criminal Code to provide that no court of appeal shall have the right to substitute its view as to guilt or a verdict of not guilty rendered by the bulwark of our liberty?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I know that the right hon. gentleman would want to join with me in congratulating Premier Blakeney on his success in the Saskatchewan election.


I didn't work to prevent that.


It would only be Conservative members, who, having said in the campaign that with candidates running in all seats, their full federal vote would come to them, and they have therefore suffered a drop of 10 per cent in one year.


Hear, hear!


Only Conservatives could take consolation in that fact. That portion of the right hon. member's question is just about as full of distortion as the rest of his question. He attempts to have me comment on a matter which is quite properly before the courts and which is proceeding in the ordinary way, and to have me make some suggestion about the results which may come about. Of course, that is completely improper in this House, and I should think the right hon. gentleman would know that.
It is most regrettable that he should, in this way and in this place with regard to an attorney general who is not here to defend himself, use such words as "orgy of perse-
Oral Questions
cution" in regard to an officer of the court who is, presumably carrying out his duties and upholding the law.


Hear, hear!


I share with many hon. members their high esteem for the jury system. I also believe that it is a very important principle that the parliament of Canada makes the law and in some way or other the courts of this land ought to enforce that law as made by this parliament.


Hear, hear!


I had not intended to refer to the circumstances of yesterday more directly, but I am sure that Premier Blakeney and those associated with him will thank the minister for his contribution.


Hear, hear!


I agree with the minister that parliament should make the law, and I will again ask him why he does not bring in an amendment to the effect that henceforth no court of appeal shall be able to circumvent and undermine a jury by substituting its own views for that of a jury. As one who has tried many jury trials, and I am sure even more than the hon, gentleman, I ask this question.


Order, please. Whatever answer the minister gave, it seems to me that that is precisely the question he just answered.


He didn't answer it.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of statements made by Dr. Prince, President of the Atomic Energy Control Board, that new federal safety standards for uranium mines will be introduced later this summer, can the minister inform the House what he means by new standards? Is he talking about a new silica dust emission standard or a new working level months standard?


Mr. Speaker, I would have to confirm this in detail, but my recollection is that it will be with regard to both.


If that is so, how does this relate to the present standards the province of Ontario set as early as January of this year, and what consultations have taken place with the provincial government about the standards, since they have just recently set standards of their own? I also ask the minister if he has involved the union which represents the workers in those mines at Elliot Lake, or if
29576-10'/2

June 12, 1975
Oral Questions
he plans to involve the union in the setting of standards of safety and health under which they are expected to work?


That is a very useful suggestion. I will pass it on to Dr. Prince.


I have a question for the Minister of Justice.


Hear, hear!


The New Brunswick court of appeal has recently overturned the conviction of the Irving interests on a charge of monopoly control of newspapers in that province contrary to the Combines Investigation Act, and I therefore want to ask the minister whether the government will be appealing that court of appeal decision to the Supreme Court of Canada in the interests of maintaining an effectively operating marketing system in this country.


Mr. Speaker, obviously on an important case such as this we will be giving very serious consideration to the legal issues involved and announce our decision at a very early time.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister, and it concerns the responsibility of the government in penal rehabilitation programs. As Mary Steinhauser is the third employee killed in the line of duty in Canadian penitentiaries this year while engaged in programs designed to rehabilitate hardened criminals, will the government change its methods and policies so that the lives of penal staff members will no longer be placed in jeopardy in attempts to rehabilitate certain inmates who, according to recent experience, cannot be rehabilitated?


Mr. Speaker, I take that to be a suggestion along the lines of which the Solicitor General is already working.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also to the Prime Minister. I would like to ask him if the Solicitor General has discussed with him the contents of a telegram he received from local 20017, Abbotsford Public Service Alliance of Canada, Solicitor General component. The telegram asks for the enforcement of the death penalty for persons who murder prison

guards and policemen, expresses lack of confidence in the Solicitor General and requests his resignation. Is the absence of the Solicitor General today to be imputed to that telegram?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also addressed to the Prime Minister. As three dangerous prisoners recently escaped from William Head prison, a maximum security institution in British Columbia, by walking around the end of a double fence recently installed around the maximum security prison at a cost of $100,000-


By Public Works.


-will the Prime Minister assure this House and the country that the inquiry which has been instituted in connection with recent sad events at New Westminster will be extended to cover all types of security measures in all federal penitentiaries?


Mr. Speaker, I shall certainly raise that question with the Solicitor General. I am not sure if it would be in everyone's interest to have this particular inquiry cover every such institution, but I will certainly discuss it with him.


You have more security in your caucus than we have in our prisons.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the answer the President of the Treasury Board gave to a question I asked concerning misuse of PFAA funds at Regina, part of which is recorded at page 6601 of Hansard, which suggests that the secretary in question "has always been paid out of the same funds," will the President of the Treasury Board who is, to use his own words, "the bagman of the country," tell the House the source of the funds to which he referred?


Mr. Speaker, the funds involved are not those intended for the farmers. She was paid out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada like all other civil servants.
June 12, 1975


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Will the President of the Treasury Board tell the House if the payments were made in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Administration Act?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. The transfer was approved by the Public Service Commission.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Has the Department of National Health and Welfare reviewed Canada's position regarding the use of megavitamins in orthomolecular psychiatry, and does he not consider it discriminatory that some provinces allow the use of megavitamins, while others do not, even in cases of extreme need?


Mr. Speaker, I shall certainly take the hon. member's question as notice. I shall be pleased to give him an answer after consulting my officials.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. As various elements disrupted committee hearings in Toronto in the last several days, can the minister indicate what steps he is taking to make sure that when the committee meets in Winnipeg, those who wish to make presentations to the committee can do so in an orderly and civil manner?


Mr. Speaker, I agree totally with the premise of the question. I point out to the hon. member however, that the proceedings and administration of the committee are in the hands of the committee itself. I am prepared to take steps which the committee asks me to take but I cannot initiate them without the committee's approval.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of State for Fisheries.
Following the heavy losses of fishing gear, including lobster traps, sustained by fishermen in the Gaspe and Magdalen Islands area, as well as in a large part of the Maritimes last weekend, has the minister received from fishermen organizations or the provinces concerned a request for financial assistance to compensate such losses? If so, does he intend, as a minister extremely devoted to the cause of fishermen, to submit to cabinet generous financial aid proposals?


Mr. Speaker, I am afraid that such a premise calls for a much more positive reply than the one I am in a position to make. I should like to say, however, that I have not yet received from the provincial governments directly involved any assessment of damage. I know that my officials have already carried a preliminary assessment. In some cases, the losses are quite heavy. However, under the formula related to disasters, applications must first be submitted by provincial governments. I shall consider them with all the sympathy I feel for these fishermen under such circumstances.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Does what the minister just said about not having received requests from the provinces apply also to Prince Edward Island, where losses in some areas have been great?


Mr. Speaker, I will immediately check with my office. I have not seen official requests from the provinces on my desk. I have received communications from my officials and fishermen's organizations but have seen no official document from the provinces.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister reviewed the decisions which were made last year, which went against the wishes of the fishermen who were excluded from compensation for lobster gear losses, and if he has reached a decision, will he advise the House what the decision was?


Mr. Speaker, I have checked the background of this matter. Federal officials had the responsibility of deter-

June 12, 1975
Oral Questions
mining areas in which income supplement would be paid because fishermen had not been able to fish as a result of ice conditions. Federal officials undertook this task and they drew the line indicating this area. The responsibility with respect to damage to gear, was that of provincial authorities, and I am told they adhered pretty well to the lines which were drawn for the first program. This question could better be addressed to them.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Has the minister considered, in conjunction with the provinces, implementing an ongoing program so that fishermen who sustain losses through ice or storms will not need to lose the fishing season while waiting for a decision from the government and will receive compensation as soon as possible after the damage has occurred.


Mr. Speaker, there have been discussions with provincial deputy ministers and our own officials on the possibility of a fishing gear insurance program. Everybody recognizes this as being highly desirable but nobody, so far, has been able to produce a plan which is administratively possible.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Agriculture. When answering the hon. member for Perth-Wilmot on June 2, the minister suggested that a meeting of provincial ministers would be called in order to reach agreement on the future of CEMA. Has the date of the meeting been set, has a draft of the agreement been summarized and, since the June 10 deadline is gone, is the minister still considering imposing import controls?


Mr. Speaker, the meeting was called, the draft agreement was amended, or at least agreed to, eight provinces posted performance bonds or guarantees, and we have had discussions with our American counterparts.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister satisfied that an effective supply-management control program will be in place and, if so, will import controls be imposed?


Mr. Speaker, I am satisfied that the supply-management program will be in place and that proper controls will be in place in due course.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. May I ask the government House leader what the business of the House will be for the rest of this week and next week, and can the hon. gentleman indicate what the House is likely to do with respect to the budget debate? I ask this question because recent revelations in the Ottawa Journal make the budget look like a plucked chicken; there is not much left to debate in the way of legislation. Can the hon. gentleman say if we are to debate any legislative measures after the budget has been introduced?


Mr. Speaker, until the cabinet has decided on the budget measures, I am afraid I cannot give any satisfaction as to whether it is going to look more plucked before or after presentation. As to the business for the coming week, with the exception of Monday this is in the hands of the opposition, there being opposition days today, tomorrow and next Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday.


They are in good hands.


I hope they make skilful use of them, although I will wait to be convinced. On Friday I shall put down a motion for reference to the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications of papers to be tabled by the Minister of Transport on Monday. It will be my intention to call that motion for debate on Monday.


Mr. Speaker, in connection with the plan just announced for Monday, I wonder if arrangements can be made for the papers that will be tabled that day to be put in the hands of spokesmen of the opposition parties at least some time prior to two o'clock so that the debate on Monday can be that much more intelligent.


I do not know, Mr. Speaker. I will have to check the timetable. Tomorrow I will be meeting with the ministers of transport from the ten provinces. I want to meet with the steering committee of the Standing Committee on Transport and Communications so that we can have discussions in advance. Maybe through this means it will be possible to have a free discussion.


Seventh report of Standing Committee on Veterans Affairs-Mr. Boulanger.
[Editor's Note: For text of above report, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]

June 12, 1975
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: 1,357, 1,889, 1,893, 1,982, 2,137, 2,279, 2,346, 2,354, 2,456, 2,468 and 2,479.
Mr. Speaker, would you be so kind as to call starred questions No. 2,408 and 2,528?
I ask, Mr. Speaker, that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Will compensation be offered to those Canadian citizens whose stock in Reader's Digest has decreased in value because of legislation to be introduced and who purchased that stock when it was made available to them in order that Reader's Digest could comply with previous legislation?


Bill C-58 is still before the House and to say at this time what the effect may be on the value of the stock if and when the proposed amendment becomes law, is no more than speculation. In any event, the government is not considering any plan to compensate Canadian shareholders. It should be noted that under the law as it now stands, there is no requirement nor was there one when a block of shares was sold in 1968, that Reader's Digest make stock available to Canadians.


1.	Is the (a) Postmaster (b) janitor at Carcross Junction, Yukon post office in receipt of a northern isolation allowance?
2.	Is there any inequality of treatment with respect to the northern allowance between these two positions and, if so, for what reason?


1. (a) No; (b) Yes.
2.	The Postmaster is employed under the Post Office Act, whereas the janitor is employed under the Public Service Employment Act. There is a disparity between allowances payable to each type of employee. Only employees as defined in the Public Service Employment Act are eligible for Isolated Post Allowances. However, certain employees under the Post Office Act may be paid special allowances. The department is currently reviewing these allowances with a view to bringing them more into line with those paid to other government employees.


1.	Was citizenship denied to Mr. Willoughby Newton Offley, Jr., Toronto, Ontario, on March 16, 1973 and, if so, what information was reviewed by the Secretary of State leading to such denial?
Order Paper Questions
2.	Did the Registrar of Canadian Citizenship state to Mr. Offley that "the information upon which the decision was based is confidential and it would not be in the public interest to reveal it" and, if so, on what grounds?
3.	Were there grounds other than his political beliefs and organizational affiliations?
4.	Does Mr. Offley's application fall in the category of a "certain case" as described in paragraph 301 of the Report of the Royal Commission on Security (abridged), June 1969 and, if so, for what reason?
5.	Has a Security Review Board been established and (a) if not, for what reason (b) if so, was Mr. Offley not informed of the possibility of appealing to, or having access to it and, for what reason?
6.	Were objections filed with the Citizenship Branch pursuant to section 28 of the Canadian Citizenship Act, R.S.C., 1970, chapter C-19, opposing the application of Mr. Offley and, if so (a) what were they (b) who filed such objections?
7.	Were any reports relating to Mr. Offley's application filed with the Secretary of State or the Citizenship Branch from (a) RCMP Security and Intelligence Division (b) the Police and Security Planning and Analysis Group (c) Canadian Armed Forces Intelligence (d) the Department of the Solicitor General (e) the Toronto Police Department (f) the Halifax Police Department (g) Interpol (h) the FBI or the CIA and, if so, what were the contents of such reports?


1.
Yes. It has not been the practice to divulge such privileged information.
2.	Yes, on the grounds that the information on which the decision was based was classified.
3.	It has not been the practice of this Department to divulge this type of information.
4.	Yes, for particularly significant security reasons.
5.	No.
6.	No.
7.	Reports received by Department of the Secretary of State on this matter were from law enforcement agencies.


1.	Did the Department of Supply and Services issue a contract to Philbrooks' Shipyards, Sydney, British Columbia valued at $1,404,897 on October 4, 1974?
2.	Was the contract issued for the supply of three 65 foot vessels at a cost of $468,299 per vessel?
3.	Were tenders invited from shipbuilders elsewhere in Canada and, if so, was a tender call given to L'Industrie Marine de Caraquet Limitee, Caraquet, New Brunswick?
4.	Was a superior equipped vessel of steel construction offered at a cost negligible to the $470,000 price of a fiberglass constructed vessel and, if so, for what reason was the latter type vessel selected?
5.	What benefits are there in terms of operation, longevity and maintenance of a fiberglass vessel as compared to a steel hulled boat?
6.	Is it the policy of the Department to purchase vessels that remain to be in a stage of experimental development such as a 65 foot fiberglass vessel?


I am informed by the Departments of Supply and Services and Environment as follows: 1. The contract was awarded on September 18, 1974. The news release was dated October 4, 1974.
2. Yes.

June 12, 1975
Order Paper Questions
3.	These vessels are for west coast operation. It is federal government procurement policy that competition may be restricted to a particular area when it is not practical to transship a vessel to another area. Competition was limited to the west coast after consideration of risks, additional cost and time which would result from national competition. Tenders were invited from six shipyards in British Columbia.
4.	No.
5.	The operational characteristics of these 65 foot patrol vessels are very similar to those of a steel vessel. The use of fiberglass, however, results in a smoother external hull than could be achieved by the use of steel. Unlike a wooden vessel, the fiberglass vessel will not increase in weight due to water absorption. The anticipated life of these fiberglass vessels is expected to be comparable with a well preserved steel vessel and somewhat in excess of the expected life of a wooden hull. The use of fiberglass for the construction of these vessels will result in reduced maintenance costs throughout the life of the vessel. A steel or wooden vessel would require annual repainting in order to preserve the hull structure as well as more frequent touch-up painting when the protective coating broke down.
6.	The vessels in question are not considered to be in a stage of experimental development. They are of conventional hull shape, propelled by commercial diesel engines and outfitted to meet the requirements of their role. The c