The hon. member for Grenville-Carleton (Mr. Baker) has given the Chair notice of a question of privilege and also advised the Chair that there seems to be some disposition in the House that the question of privilege is of such a nature that it ought to be taken forthwith.


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleagues with respect to this matter. I regret very much that it is necessary to deal with this question on a day set aside for the discussion of pollution and its effects on native people. Therefore, I shall be very brief with respect to this matter.
Mr. Auguste Choquette is quoted as saying before an open court and I quote:
-if everyone who had ever taken or given $600 or $700 bribes in their life were arrested, 50 per cent of the MP's would no longer be sitting.
He also said:
I know it because I was an MP for five years.
Clearly, he means MP's performing as members of parliament.
The source of these remarks and the wide distribution they have been given forces our attention. An institution as venal and corrupted as Mr. Choquette asserts this parliament to be would have no right to respect from the Canadian people. If true, the remarks must be acted upon and the historical penalties exacted; if they are false, a public declaration by Mr. Choquette must be made withdrawing the slanderous accusations against half the members sitting here.


Hear, hear!


As you know, Mr. Speaker, the remarks are almost certainly a question of privilege. Standing Order 76 and Beauchesne citations 434, 435 and 108(5) deal directly with bribery. The last citation calls the offering of a bribe "an insult not only to the member himself, but to the House"; and the acceptance of a bribe has always been "a grave offence, which has been visited by the severest punishments". On page 138 of May's 18th edition, the penalty described is imprisonment or expulsion from the House.
Acceptance of a bribe is a serious form of corruption and Beauchesne 111(h) states that "imputations against members of corruption in the execution of their duties" is a breach of privilege. Citation 110, in describing "high violations" against the House, provides:
The same rule applies to a charge against a member for conduct which renders him unworthy to sit in Parliament and to criticize the House for not expelling him.
So gross an accusation, Mr. Speaker, must surely be justified with facts, or apologized for at the bar of the Hoilse.


Hear, hear!


It seems to me important that the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections examine Mr. Choquette and establish the facts for the sake of the reputation of parliament and all its members. I therefore move:
That the accusation that a substantial proportion of the members of the House of Commons have been in receipt of bribes be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections.


Mr. Speaker, I eagerly support the comments of the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton (Mr. Baker). I am certain, for that matter, that all members of the House will agree with me. Mr. Speaker, like all members I was appalled at the report of Mr. Choquette's statement.

It is essential, and no one will question, that the integrity of all members of this House be protected. It is with that thought in mind that I fully support the motion made by the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton (Mr. Baker).


Mr. Speaker, I am sure we are all pleased that the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton (Mr. Baker) has raised this important issue at the first opportunity. I think both he and the previous speaker are to be commended for the brevity of their remarks. It seems to me that the case is so clear that it does not need extensive debate. I hope that Your Honour will find there is a prima facie case of privilege and that the motion made by the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton will therefore be ruled in order.
We all feel that when someone like our former colleague, Mr. Auguste Choquette, makes a statement of this kind, especially when he makes it in open court, he should be called upon to answer for it, to substantiate it or to withdraw the serious charges he has made. I hope that very shortly this matter will be before the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections.
While I am on my feet, Mr. Speaker, I should like to echo
something the Solicitor General (Mr. Allmand) said the

May 7, 1976
Privilege-Mr. W. Baker
other day in another connection, and that is that when things like this are said, or when improper things are done, it is not just one party in the House or a few individuals here, but it is the whole institution of parliament that comes under a shadow. It is really serious that there is such cynicism in Canada, as there is today, about this institution and about democracy, and we should be taking the most positive steps we can to correct this situation. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I indicate our readiness to support the motion that has been presented to you this morning.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I think that the motion which has just been presented should be referred to the Committee on Privileges and Elections because, on the one hand, if false allegations have been made, I think it is the interest of all members to protect themselves; this is the only way they can protect themselves; and on the other hand, if the allegations are true, the public will know what is going on in Parliament. I for one am very satisfied with the motion, and I think that we must clarify all these allegations coming from all sides and all these so-called bribes we hear about every day. It would be one of the first opportunities for the Committee on Privileges and Elections to shed some light on these matters, and if it is successful in doing so, we will have to continue. That is why I am in favour of this motion.


Mr. Speaker, I should just like to add one word. I endorse the motion, but I want to emphasize something that may have been said in order to make it very clear. Traditionally, we in Canada have had very dedicated men and women in our public service, and traditionally they have been known as people of high integrity. As I read the statement, if it is correctly reported, it is not only a slight on every member of parliament, as well as every person who has been a member, but also a slight on the dedicated people in the public service of Canada.


Hear, hear!


Order, please. For very obvious reasons it is clear that the motion enjoys widespread, if not unanimous, support, and I would be surprised if it were not unanimous. If the Chair were to have any hesitation in putting the question at this time it would only be in respect of the ironing out of procedural difficulties which might be involved. I do not see why that cannot be done in a preliminary way by the committee, if in fact the matter were to be referred there.
For example, in respect of the motion it does occur to me that some reflection should occur, until perhaps later in the day or until Monday, regarding the form of the motion itself and other paragraphs that may be added. I wish to make it very clear that there is not the slightest doubt in the Chair's mind that the question ought to be put to the House. After all, it should be stressed that a decision which is made by the Chair is often referred to as a decision as to whether or not a prima facie question of privilege exists. That is a convenient phrase, but the fact of the matter is that it is not entirely correct. What the Chair is doing is

simply making a decision as to whether the proceedings ought to be stopped in order to give priority to a motion which has been raised under the title of a question of privilege. There is not the slightest doubt in the Chair's mind that this ought to be done either now or at an appropriate time.
The only reason I suggest a time lag before putting the question is that there are things to be considered as, for example, the language of the motion, which obviously had to be prepared very hurriedly, and, secondly, the powers the committee ought to enjoy, as well as the other powers the House may wish to exercise in respect of this sort of thing. After all, this is a statement not made by a member over whom the House has some jurisdiction, but a statement made by someone outside. It may be necessary that the House exercise some special powers in that regard. It may also be that there may be some conflict with some privileges of a lawyer pleading a case in open court; I do not know. However, it occurs to me that the Chair ought to make clear, and I now wish to do so, that I am prepared to interrupt the proceedings now to put this question or I am prepared to give the House a bit of time to reflect on the polishing of the motion, only from a procedural point of view, to make sure that after reflection the motion in fact does include all the powers the committee ought to enjoy to investigate a matter of that sort. I would appreciate some guidance from the members in that respect.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate what you have said and I think, having regard to the importance of the question, it would be the wish of all members of the House that the committee be completely empowered having regard to the subject matter or empowered to the extent it can be. I for one, as the mover of the motion, would certainly have no objection. I hope those who spoke in support of it and the members of the House generally would have no objection to the delay for the reasons you suggested.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to endorse the position taken by the House Leader of the Progressive Conservative Party on behalf of the government. We are very anxious that this question of privilege should be thoroughly aired and that everything should be done to minimize the effect upon this honourable House of the alleged statement by Mr. Choquette.


Mr. Speaker, we agree to the delay, but I think it would be a good idea to have the motion finally drafted and presented sometime later today.


Order, please. The Chair certainly understands that sentiment. Certainly, from my point of view it would be most undesirable to give any indication at all that the House is in any way delaying dealing with this matter. It is a matter of the utmost importance. I wonder, in light of the absence for example, from the motion of the name of the person who is connected with the statement, whether there should be some consideration of the power that the committee ought to have. It might be that during the question period some consideration could be given to
May 7, 1976

that, and some polish could be given to the motion, so that at the end of the question period there might be an appropriate motion to be put. I might invite the co-operation of the House later in that regard and re-raise the matter at the time the question period concludes which, I would think, should be in about 50 minutes from now bearing in mind the ordinary duration of the question period on Friday.
Is that agreed?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Yesterday in the meeting with the United States Commerce Secretary the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce agreed that there is no need to renegotiate the auto pact. I appreciate the minister's desire to be a good host. However, I think the Prime Minister should give this House a full explanation as to how that position enhances our national interest. Would the Prime Minister explain the government's position on this and table all the background material that led the government to this position.


Mr. Speaker, the member is asking me for a statement. I will convey the question to the minister concerned.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is again directed to the Prime Minister. I understand there are differences of opinion about the timing and nature of any changes. However, I would have thought the government at least would have kept the option open on the matter of renegotiation. Is it the position of the government that the existing terms will ensure in 1976, and over the medium term, balance in all aspects of automotive trade? If so, would the Prime Minister explain the basis for such confidence?


Mr. Speaker, I will be glad to draw these further remarks to the attention of the minister.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. I appreciate the difficulty here because the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce who was involved in the negotiations is not here today. On April 30, 1976 the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce advised the House that political events in the United States during the balance of this
Oral Questions
calendar year may make it difficult to complete negotiations for any changes in the auto pact. That is recorded at page 13029 of Hansard. However, the United States Secretary of Commerce indicated that the United States election would not stand in the way of further talks on the auto pact this year. Would the Prime Minister assure this House that every effort will be make to resume talks on the renegotiation of the pact, as soon as possible, now that the assurances have been received that the political climate would not preclude such talks?


Mr. Speaker, I understand that hon. members are making various representations. I understand also that the minister is travelling with the United States Secretary of Commerce and is in Toronto, I believe. I, myself, was engaged in a meeting with the first ministers, so there has been no discussion between Mr. Jamieson and myself. I will draw these various questions to his attention or his excellent parliamentary secretary will do that on my behalf.


My question is again for the Prime Minister. Reference was made in Mr. Richardson's remarks yesterday to the fact that major auto firms were ordering parts from third countries, which may be a factor contributing to the serious deficit of the auto parts industry. This reflects the fact that the auto pact is a bilateral agreement from the U.S. side and a multilateral agreement from Canada's side. Would the Prime Minister give serious consideration to the establishment of a special committee of this House to inquire, report upon and make recommendations with respect to the difficulties in the Canada-U.S. auto pact and of the auto parts industry under the Canada-U.S. auto pact?


Perhaps the hon. member could raise that with his own House leader and it will be discussed with the House leaders of the various parties.


Mr. Speaker, I too have a question for the Prime Minister. Although it concerns automotive trade it is not a detailed question which would require a ministerial reply. It concerns overall government policy. In view of the minister's statement that no changes are required in the autopact,-presumably reflecting government policy-and given the fact that the purpose of the pact, and I quote from the preamble, was to ensure "fair and equitable" growth in the industry for both countries, and since we now have had a cumulative deficit of more than $5 billion in the 111 years of the pact, $2 billion of which came last year, does the Prime Minister agree that it is government policy that no changes in such an unbalanced situation are required?


Mr. Speaker, here again the hon. member is asking me a question about a statement made by the minister which obviously I

May 7, 1976
Oral Questions
have not had time to see. If he is asking a general question about changes, let me remind him that a couple of years ago on this side we were talking about changes in the auto pact and the hon. member was awfully shocked that we would even be contemplating them. So the government's policy changes, and so does the opposition's.


As is frequently the case, the Prime Minister has his facts wrong. The changes the government was talking about a few years ago were to remove the safeguards in the pact, at which time the Prime Minister was under pressure from the U.S. because they had a slight imbalance of $200 million in 1970, and they were raising hell. We now have a deficit of $2 billion, and I would like the Prime Minister to tell the House when the Canadian government will start raising that issue in a forceful way with the Americans.


I do not accept the facts as stated by the hon. member concerning the attitude of the government, but it does point out that sometimes the pact works to the advantage of one country, sometimes to that of the other. The hon. member certainly cannot blame the government for having wanted two years ago to look at the pact so that in the long term it would work in the interests of Canada. What I am saying is that then he was afraid of any change and now he wants changes. He should be more consistent.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, the changes we favoured a few years ago are precisely the ones which, had they been implemented, would not have led to the kind of massive deficits we have today. When the Prime Minister says that sometimes the pact works to the advantage of the U.S. and sometimes to the advantage of Canada, does he see that a deficit position for Canada in eight of the 11 years with a cumulative imbalance of more than $5 billion is the kind of ebb and flow in such an agreement that his government favours continuing in its present form?


What the hon. member conveniently forgets is that before the pact came in we had an enormous deficit, and it was this Liberal government under the present Minister of Public Works which brought in this pact, which has worked very favourably for Canada. We now have a much better situation than before the Liberal government brought in this change.


You had better check your figures.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Agriculture.
Having received many complaints from my area about the publication and distribution to dairy producers of the new regulations on production quotas and considering that

such delay hinders the planning of their future production, can the minister tell us today when he expects to send those new regulations to dairy producers?


Mr. Speaker, I understand that the provincial marketing boards, associations, public utilities or whatever they may be are the ones which are to distribute these, and if they are not distributed, I will check and find out why.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Now that the first ministers conference is over-and I realize that no agreement was reached on price yesterday-I wonder if the Prime Minister could tell the House and the country whether at least an agreement that the price of crude oil in Canada should not rise above the average price of crude oil in the United States was reached.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, that was something we all agreed on, including the producing provinces.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to address my question to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Arising out of the failure of the Law of the Sea Conference to agree on a treaty governing the exploration of the mineral resources of the deep seabed the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce has had conversations with the United States secretary of commerce, Mr. Elliott Richardson, on the subject of commercial uses of the seabed. Given the fact that the United States is keen to proceed with the exploration of the mineral resources of the deep seabed, an activity which has very serious implications for Canada, can the minister tell the House Canada's position on this important matter and inform us if it is his intention to hold immediate discussion with his United States counterpart in order to learn the U.S. position and hopefully to resolve this thorny problem?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member will understand that that is a very general question which was part of the discussion which took place yesterday between the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce and his counterpart in the United States. As a minister of energy I do not have any direct counterpart in the United States; therefore, I would expect the discussions to take place between the Secretary of State for External Affairs and perhaps the state department of the United States.
May 7, 1976


Mr. Speaker, I have one brief supplementary for the Prime Minister. In his address to the Law of the Sea Conference on April 8, Dr. Kissinger said that if the deep seabeds are not subject to international agreement, the United States can and will proceed to explore and mine on its own. However, he said he would favour partial international control through a council which should reflect the interests of producer and consumer states most concerned with deep see mining. Canada is clearly one of these. He also said that the United States would agree to accept a temporary limitation for a fixed period only on the production of seabed minerals tied to the projected growth in the world nickel market. After this period seabed production should be governed by overall market conditions.
I should like to ask the Prime Minister what the Canadian response has been to these proposals as put forward by Dr. Kissinger.


I will inquire, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is on the same subject, and it is also addressed to the Prime Minister. In view of the failure of the Law of the Sea conference of yesterday, and in view of the fact that the present international law is based on the Canadian proposal of 1958, namely, that the land at the bottom of the sea belongs to the littoral state, would the Prime Minister now consider, since this was a Canadian proposal in 1958, that Canada now should take the lead and call for a conference of the nations of the north Pacific and the north Atlantic to decide what the boundaries of the land at the bottom of the sea in these two respective oceans are?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Secretary of State for External Affairs, who will be returning from the Law of the Sea conference, will be interested in these suggestions.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if the Prime Minister can say whether the Canadian government has assigned a very high priority to negotiations with the United States on the determination of the boundaries between our two countries on the west coast, on the north coast and on the east coast, as they will extend out to the 200 mile limit. There are extremely important matters at issue here, and I wonder if the Prime Minister is really aware of how high a priority must be
Oral Questions
attached to those negotiations and when they are going to begin.


Mr. Speaker, I heard the Minister of State (Fisheries) answer a similar question a few days ago. I agree that, in view of the results of the Law of the Sea Conference, this question has added urgency. I am sure it has rather high priority.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Secretary of State.
With regard to bilingualism in education, could the minister tell the House how federal subsidies for bilingual education are divided among provinces. Can he assure us that those funds are indeed devoted to provincial bilingual education programs?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, I would be pleased to do that. In the case of the province with which I think the hon. member is concerned, it is roughly $8.9 million per year. As to exactly how that is expended I would have to give him a more elaborate answer, probably later this day.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. I know he was busy yesterday discussing with the premiers the energy problem, but with reference to the constitution, was there any agreement with regard to that? Second, will the Prime Minister assure the House, and in particular the small provinces-I am perhaps speaking now out of a little selfish interest in reference to western Canada-that whatever the mechanisms in the criteria for amending the constitution are there will be some mechanism to protect the small provinces, and that it will not be only Quebec or Ontario which will have the right to veto any changes when the constitution is home?


Mr. Speaker, on the first part of the question, the premiers informed me that they are having their ministers meeting, I believe within the next fortnight, on this subject, and that they would be in a position to report to me on the success or otherwise of that meeting at the first ministers meeting on June 14.
On the second part of the question, if the hon. member refers to the letter I tabled in the House which I addressed to all the premiers about a month ago, he will see that under the various options there are indeed ways in which

May 7, 1976
Oral Questions
amendments to the constitution can be stopped by the western provinces if they so desire.


I am familiar with the letter, but I should like some assurance. The hon. member for St. John's East raised with the Prime Minister the fact that the various leaders of the provinces are in some accord that the constitution should be home in Canada. However, whatever method is adopted there should be some mechanism to protect the rights of western Canada and other small provinces, and these mechanisms should be spelled out. Under the BNA Act provincial rights are protected.


That seems to be the same question. The hon. member will find the answer in my letters, if he wants to read them. He will find a more detailed answer in the reports on the Victoria conference of 1971 in which he will see the formula agreed to by all provinces, including the western ones, for amending the constitution.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State. Some 28 full time employees of the national museums of Canada have been laid off-many without notice-in an effort to reduce departmental man years. Can the minister explain the rationale in terminating the jobs of experienced security personnel and truck drivers, then hiring employees at public expense through contracts with private firms to replace them?


Mr. Speaker, I answered part of the question yesterday. The hon. member added a few more wrinkles and I shall answer those in more detail later this day.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The minister's statement was a non-answer. As 80 more employees may be declared redundant, will the minister give a commitment that public employees will be given adequate notice of their job termination and not laid off from the national museums or other museums until replacement jobs can be found for them?


Mr. Speaker, that is precisely part of the answer I gave yesterday. That was, in part, an answer to the hon. member's question of today.


But it is not being done.


The hon. member contends it is not being done. We shall discuss that later.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General. Can the Solicitor General confirm the very obvious fear of the hon. member for Montmorency of a coup d'etat in this country by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, and, if the minister feels the same way, has he alerted his cabinet colleagues to this terrible and monstrous probability so that alternative security forces will stand by with bayonets drawn au qui vive-such groups as the Armed Forces, the EMO and the Canadian Boy Scouts?


And General Dare-me and my shadow!


Mr. Speaker, I know of no evidence to support the allegations made by the hon. member for Montmorency.


The hon. member is recognized for one serious supplementary.


Sir, I wonder if the minister really shares the opinion of his colleague. If he does not, does he not feel that such comments seriously jeopardize the credibility of that great force?


Mr. Speaker, I do not share his opinion. Members are free in this House to express their opinions, and the hon. member expressed his opinion, but I do not agree with him.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is also directed to the Solicitor General.
In yesterday's edition of Le Devoir, there is an article in which the following extract is found:
Outside of the House of Commons, the hon. member for Maison-neuve-Rosemont (Mr. Joyal) stated that he did not have any evidence that could be connected with the hiring of private detectives ... by the Progressive Conservative Party as such, but that numerous indications suggest a plot being conducted behind the scenes .. .
This statement is strangely similar to the allegations made by Mr. Choquette yesterday, in Quebec City. Therefore, would the Solicitor General be prepared to discuss such allegations with his colleagues and make a report to the House?


Mr. Speaker, as I said yesterday, I have received complaints about private detectives investigating the public and private lives of members. I am looking into that further. Until I get more information I will not comment.
May 7, 1976


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Because the government introduced an austerity program, the minister cut back on funds for research projects. I suppose people in all fields of research ask for special attention. I am particularly concerned about research projects to do with diabetes and the production of insulin. In view of Canada's enviable reputation in this field, will the minister reconsider what he is to allocate to this particular field of research, and fund it as it deserves to be funded?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to tell the hon. member first of all that with regard to production of insulin, I am told that the production in Canada is quite adequate to meet present needs.
As for the allotment of funds for research, in the field specifically mentioned by the hon. member, I must say that admittedly that field is very important. I would remind the hon. member, however, that I am not the one who decides on how those funds are shared among the various branches of medical research. I am not the one, as minister, nor are the officials of my department, the ones who divide them up. The funds are allotted by an autonomous and independent body known as the Medical Research Council whose decisions in the field of medical research are taken by experts and not by myself.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Will the minister recommend to the appropriate committee which deals with the allocation of funds to medical research that more funds should be made available for investigation of acupuncture treatment?


Mr. Speaker, I shall draw the hon. member's representation to the attention of the Medical Research Council. The Medical Research Council receives Hansard and I am sure they will note the hon. member's representation. That is all I can do, I think, about the hon. member's question.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport in connection with air safety? As there is a great deal of uncertainty and concern these days about the role of air traffic controllers
Oral Questions
and as the minister replied the other day, as reported on page 13200 of Hansard, to this effect:
... I should like to show the hon. member that we are not at all hesitant about any kind of examination of our procedures in regard to air traffic control and the safety involved.
Is the minister prepared to recommend an examination of the technical aspects of air safety and the cost to the travellers? I ask this because of the additional costs air lines will need to absorb because of some movement in this country with regard to the linguistic re-allocation of air traffic controllers.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member raises two separate and distinct issues, possible additional costs and the nature of additional procedures which may be involved. I think this involves broad policy which must be judged in terms of balance of interests, or in terms of the kind of judgment made by this House when it showed widespread support for the official languages policy. On the issue of safety, however, I assure hon. members, as I have assured them many times in the past, that we are dedicated to the introduction of safe techniques and procedures before we introduce bilingual air traffic control in Quebec, in the field of instrument flight rules. We have undertaken research and development in this field with our simulator. Actually, the program got under way yesterday.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Am I to gather from the minister's reply that the department and the minister do not favour allowing this highly technical subject to be examined by a competent committee?


Mr. Speaker, that, precisely, is what we are doing.


I am talking about an independent
committee.


We have the co-operation of the various air line associations and groups representing pilots and controllers. They are working, with the simulator, in the development of procedures. The question of a specific additional inquiry is being discussed in another context these days. As I said earlier in the House, I have no hesitation with regard to any kind of examination of techniques and procedures we shall be using. We shall be satisfied and I am sure that those involved in the program will also be satisfied that we have evolved safe procedures.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Parliamentary Secretary to the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
Yesterday, a tragedy occurred in northern Italy where an earthquake struck. As tens of thousands of Canadians come from this area, can the parliamentary secretary tell the House whether a report has been submitted to her on

May 7, 1976
Oral Questions
this subject and whether the government of Canada is taking special steps to help the victims of this disaster?


Mr. Speaker, we have received reports inasmuch as telex communications are possible. We were very sad to hear that an earthquake apparently killed at least 132 people up to now, in the areas of Udine and Padua, in northern Italy. However there were no reports of Canadian citizens being involved.
Let me take advantage of this opportunity to express our deeply felt sadness to all Italo-Canadian families of Fri-oulian origin and our sympathy to the Italian government. I shall simply add that CIDA is in close contract with the International Red Cross and the Canadian Red Cross to determine whether we may be of any help.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. On May 3, in the minister's absence I directed a question to his parliamentary secretary regarding the five strains of polio virus which had been found in two sewage treatment plants in the Ottawa area. I asked whether these virus samples had been sent to the biology laboratory. The parliamentary secretary stated they had just been sent and that no report had been received. I now want to ask the minister two questions. First, can he tell us whether the report of the biology lab has been received and whether these strains are suspect-ible to Salk vaccine? Second, why, since the department knew of this since last January, were these tests not made at an earlier date.


Mr. Speaker, the data relating to the 15 polio viruses that were isolated in the Ottawa area were reported at the symposium held at the University of Ottawa on January 23, 1976 at which were present officials from the local health authority, the Ontario health authority, and the federal government. Our report to the University of Ottawa indicated that ten of the 15 polio viruses were classified as vaccine-like. The remaining five strains showed no reaction with Sabin vaccine anti-serum, but could not be characterized, I repeat, could not be characterized as virulent strains. I am advised that it is rather difficult to establish the origin of the five polio virus strains, but the polio virus is a relatively stable one. Therefore, immunization with either Sabin or Salk vaccine would be quite adequate to meet the problem in this instance.


In
view of the fact there is a difference of opinion among medical authorities as to whether Salk vaccine has only limited application for certain strains and Sabin vaccine 
provides complete immunity, will the minister advise the House whether the tests have been received from the biology lab, as I am sure the minister would not want to carry on or have the province carry on an immunization program only to find out the vaccine they have used provides only limited protection.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the hon. member, being a layman in the field like myself, will not want to create undue fears vis-a-vis the effectiveness of the existing vaccine in Canada. I might advise him that the National Advisory Committee on Immunizing Agents met last October 30 and 31 to study the matter of all vaccines presently used in Canada, and proposed an immunization schedule. Both Sabin and Salk vaccines were found suitable to fight polio. They are both acceptable ways of treating polio. With regard to these particular strains that have been identified, I am advised that there is no reason to doubt that either vaccine would be adequate to combat them.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General.
In view of the importance of Bill C-84 and the interest it arouses throughout Canada, would the minister indicate whether he would agree to the bill being referred to the Committee of the Whole instead of the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs?


Mr. Speaker, that would be something which should be discussed with the government House leader and the other House leaders. I guess they would have to take that suggestion under consideration.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. With $137 million already spent or committed to be spent on the proposed Pickering Airport, an amount equal to 43 per cent of the amount spent on Mirabel, which may be a white elephant, large in size and small in usage, will the minister indicate if this type of spending on Pickering is to continue with respect to an airport which, if completed, will not be needed and, indeed, may sit isolated without roads or services?


Mr. Speaker, I completely disagree with the hon. member's reference
May 7, 1976

to Mirabel which will turn out to be a superb airport available to serve the Canadian people very well indeed. There is a rather greater problem in the area of Toronto because of the decision because on the part of the provincial government to stop completing the Pickering Airport after they had participated in the decision on the location of the airport.


Hear, hear!


At that time, we had spent most of the money to which the hon. member refers in acquiring the land which was needed for the airport. We had not forecast the strange, quick change of position, on the part of the Ontario government and, therefore, did not build that into our planning. The current costs are essentially for maintenance of the land and for finalizing the purchasing of the land. We intend to maintain that land, certainly for the present time, because all of our figures still indicate the need for additional air services in the Toronto region which cannot be supplied at the present Malton site and, therefore, create real difficulties for the whole Toronto region.


As the minister's own parliamentary secretary told this House only ten days ago that there had been little or no growth in Toronto air traffic during 1975, and in view of the minister's inference today that somehow we are heading into capacity problems in Toronto, will the minister assure the House that he is not going to use that trumped-up excuse that there is a limited capacity in Toronto to divert airline traffic through Mirabel to salvage the white elephant they are now living with in Mirabel.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, 1 am glad the hon. member has put on the record his confidence that there will be no traffic problem in the Toronto region in days ahead. There will come a day when he will be haunted by that remark. The fact is that while the actual growth in 1975 which had been anticipated on the basis of past and other experience did not take place in quite the same way due to a lot of conditions in the economy, the volume of traffic in Toronto at that particular point in time at the end of the year was still higher than had been forecast some years before for a particular point in time for that particular year. There is in fact a real capacity problem facing us in the Toronto area in the near future. I will have to seek many methods of attempting to alleviate that problem in order to minimize the inconvenience that will be caused by people wanting to travel to and from Toronto. That may well include a changing of flights to other airports wherever possible in order to minimize traffic in Toronto. I will have no alternative because of what the province of Ontario has done.


Hear, hear!


In view of the minister's last answer, I would like him to confirm, yes or no: May we anticipate that they will do nothing to activate the Pickering Airport site in the line of completing that proposed airport until at least sometime after 1980? In reference to the Ontario government, can the minister tell us what discussions he
Oral Questions
has been having with the Ontario government, if he feels so frustrated concerning their attitude?


Mr. Speaker, we have been having discussions with the Ontario government about this problem. At this point in time, the Pickering site is being retained as a real option. There is a difficulty in that, notwithstanding even an early decision to go ahead with construction, there might well be a lag between commencement and completion which would result in traffic problems in the Toronto area. This is the view we have, based on figures which so far as I know have not been contradicted. That is really the fundamental point; these figures stand; they are figures we have produced and no one has argued significantly against them with regard to traffic. We are, therefore, exploring the various techniques but we are not prepared to make a decision to go ahead with an airport at this time when the provincial government is unwilling to build the roads and other infrastructure which would ordinarily be associated with it. Whether we will ever change that position, I would not want to forecast.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. On Wednesday the right hon. gentleman denied the suggestion in General Dare's letter of February regarding specific application of guidelines regarding the Parti Quebecois when he said:
This applies, I repeat, to members of the Liberal party, Progressive Conservative party, Parti Quebecois, Social Credit party and to those who do not militate in any political activity.
Could the Prime Minister then explain the statement in General Dare's letter which reads;
Consequently, the security service cannot be expected to provide security screening information to deputy ministers and heads of agencies in accordance with ICSI guidelines relative to "separatist sympathies, associations and activities... "


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member reads on he will see in the next paragraph that the General is apparently uncertain of the consequences that he must draw, because he is asking for this subject to be discussed in the security panel.


How about tabling the letter?


It is an inter-office memo from the PMO's office!


It seems that the Sun forgot that particular part of the letter.


Selective journalism.


Mr. Speaker, I cannot find this particular paragraph. The fact is, and I believe it was well explained by the Solicitor General yesterday, that General Dare was a little uncertain of the consequences he could draw from

May 7, 1976
Oral Questions
the cabinet decision. He was stating it and then asking that it be referred for discussion to the officials. As I said to the House a couple of days ago, I think it was an honest error on his part and would have been cleared up by the committee had the letter proceeded in the normal way rather than being leaked to the press. I am obviously still distressed about that aspect of it-that a letter between the highest security officer and the second highest one would be leaked in that way. I think it is of concern to every member of the House, too, that a leak which is obviously destined to destroy my reputation and credibility should have been deliberately put into the hands of the press and treated that way by the press. I am thinking of the editorial in the Sun this morning or yesterday morning which is obviously scurrilous, inaccurate and venomous.


A supplementary, Mr. Speaker. Would the Prime Minister consider tabling for the House and the country the guidelines in respect of the activities of the RCMP in this area? Also, would he give this House an assurance, since he seems to be rather concerned about the activities of the Sun, that no member of cabinet authorized the raid by the RCMP on the office of the Toronto Sun which just took place this morning.


Oh, oh!


I cannot believe my ears, Mr. Speaker. If it is true-


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. Members were advised by his department that in March announcements would be made regarding grants to build airports and to update those already in existence in small communities. Can the minister advise the House when this announcement will be made, as many communities are being seriously inconvenienced by the delay and uncertainty of funding?


Mr. Speaker, I have no immediate date to announce but I will take the hon. member's representation seriously and look into the situation.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Communications. In view of the exchange we had yesterday, it is clear that the minister did have conversations with several ministers of communications, particularly those of Manitoba and Saskatchewan, on the subject of government telephone ownership of cable television, notwithstanding the matter was before the CRTC and parliament. I wonder if the minister could assure the House that before anything definitive on such a major change in government policy as the ownership of cable TV plant takes place, the matter could be either given to the CRTC for an open hearing of all interested parties or at least be referred to a committee of the House, so that other parties could put their views forward?


Mr. Speaker, I am a little confused by the question of the hon. member. If he means the ownership of cablevision infrastructure, I can only repeat that there has been no such change in the policy. The CRTC still requires specific conditions before granting a licence, including that cablevision companies must own the largest part of the infrastructure although it has never made it a matter of general policy.
I repeat, I discussed this matter of cablevision infrastructure ownership with the ministers of Saskatchewan and Manitoba and with other persons. Did I discuss it with regard to applications now before the CRTC concerning licence granting? No. I discussed it only in general terms because it is a problem of interest to provincial ministers of communications. I do not intend to intervene whatsoever in the process of regulations of the CRTC.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the minister's rather lengthy answer. Because of the importance of the ownership of cable TV plant, however, and the fact that the discussions were with the ministers of Saskatchewan and Manitoba about government telephone ownership of cable TV plants, and that there are other areas of telephone ownership of cable TV plants, could that larger question be directed to the CRTC for a public hearing of all interested parties, some of whom obviously were not involved in the discussions with the minister? If that is not possible could the minister discuss with the House leader if an appropriate committee could have a discussion and hearing on this very important issue?


Mr. Speaker, the suggestion is an interesting one. I suppose there is a point at which this whole question of ownership could be referred to a public audience held by the CRTC. That is one way of dealing with the matter. Another way, of course, is to formulate a general policy regarding ownership of television plants to be discussed by myself and the provincial ministers. At a later stage when Phase II of the legislation goes through the House, when I table it, perhaps it will be a little more clear how I can impart to the CRTC matters of general policy.
May 7, 1976


Mr. Speaker, a question for the Minister of Public Works. Could the minister tell the House if it is true that about half a million dollars is in process of being spent on some bulletproof cash wickets in the new Bank of Canada building on Sparks Street? Is it also a fact that these temporary cash wickets are to be torn down and replaced with permanent wickets in a year's time? If this is the case, does the minister not think some other arrangement could be made so that this duplication would not be necessary?


Mr. Speaker, as I think the House is aware, the Bank of Canada is a semi-autonomous agency and does not come under the administrative jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works. In this instance, this particular bank has not sought our advice.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Fisheries but in his absence, I will direct it to his parliamentary secretary. It has to do with remarks made by the provincial minister of fisheries in Manitoba relating to the Freshwater Fish Marketing Corporation and his threat to withdraw from the corporation. The reasons he gave were inadequate disclosure by the corporation, high processing costs and low return to the fishermen. In view of these remarks by the provincial minister, would the parliamentary secretary indicate whether or not the corporation now intends to make a full disclosure with reference to their overhead and the real cost of the processing of inland fish?


Mr. Speaker, I have not read the remarks quoted by the hon. member but the Minister of State (Fisheries) had to leave a few moments ago to catch an aircraft flight. I will make sure that the hon. gentleman get his answer at the beginning of the week.


Mr. Spe