The House resumed, from Monday, November 15, consideration of the motion of Mr. Andras that Bill C-19, to amend or repeal certain statutes to enable restraint of government expenditures, be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Miscellaneous Estimates.
Mr. Speaker, last evening I commenced my remarks just prior to ten o'clock. 1 want to impress upon the House that the statements 1 make reflect my opinion and also, I am sure, the opinion of many hundreds of people across Canada, that this government is nothing more than a leaky vessel which can no longer hold water. In looking back over the statement made in the House of Commons by the Minister of Transport (Mr. Lang), as recorded at page 957 of Hansard, I find he stated:
If the government on behalf of the taxpayers in this country wants to cut expenditures, as it does, one of the clearest places to go to work is where expenditures have unfortunate impact and where the spending is unwise or leads to extra cost than is otherwise the case.
The first question I would like to put to the minister is: How can he prove that the government wants to cut expenditures, in light of the recent publicity that was given to his travel expenses? It is almost idiotic, in my opinion, for the minister to say in the House that the government wants to cut expenditures when a minister of the Crown is spending a quarter of a million dollars a year in taxpayers' money. This has to stop. We just cannot afford it. The taxpayers of Canada cannot stand that. Further on he says that where expenditures should first be cut is where they have an unfortunate impact. This is exactly what the government is doing; it is cutting expenditures where they are having an unfortunate impact.
Take, for instance, the withdrawal of the subsidization of the flour milling industry in eastern Canada. I want to impress upon hon. members the fact that not only eastern Canada is suffering as a result of this policy of the government, but also the millers in western Canada. 1 have been informed that millers in western Canada will suffer more than millers in eastern Canada. I think the government should explain to this House just where this burden will fall.
When the minister found out he was in trouble on the issue, he said the government would institute a new program which would cost $9 million. I have seen some of these programs which the government said would cost so much. Let us consider A1B which employed 200 people to administer its program at first. Now the personnel number around 1,000, five times the original number, within the first year. When the minister says in the House that the new program will cost $9 million, I just do not believe him, neither do a great many Canadians. The minister went on to say, " . .. and where the spending is unwise or leads to extra cost than is otherwise the case."
What could be more unwise than an hon. member spending money to travel back and forth to his constituency by private jet when there is accommodation provided by common carriers? We have Air Canada and CP Air. There are two means of travel open to the minister, and there is travel accommodation to the city of Saskatoon. The statements of the minister do not hold water, and I am sure the people across Canada recognize that. The minister went on to say the following:
That really means it is not just a matter of who pays-between the taxpayer and the person who is asking for the service or using it - but whether the lowest possible amount is in fact incurred.
If that is not a joke, 1 have never heard one. When the minister can spend $7,000 on a trip from here to Saskatoon, when he could take a common carrier for less than $300, how in the world can he say that he is using the least expensive means and that the lowest possible amount is incurred? That is nothing short of a joke. That is why I say that the government is becoming nothing more than a leaky vessel.
The government is pouring cold water on incentives to work. People are losing faith. There is distrust in Canada. We are suffering a rate of inflation which is not acceptable, and it has put us beyond the cost factor in other countries in production and living. We cannot survive under that and we have to realize that the policies of governments have a great deal to do with the problems we are undergoing at the present time. The taxation policies of governments are very important. That is why we are debating this bill at such length. There are many ways in which the government could move in order to implement policies and means of taxation which would be beneficial to the people and not necessarily an increasing load for them.
In my remarks yesterday I stated that in 1969 the accumulated taxation by all levels of government totalled $24 billion. Five years later, in 1974, the accumulated total was $48 billion. The people of Canada cannot stand this kind of taxation without getting some return. When 1 say that the government is pouring cold water on incentives, this is exactly
80001-6S>/2

November 16, 1976
Restraint of Government Expenditures what is happening. It is destroying the incentive to work and to produce. When the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Whelan) came into this House he went across the country asking farmers to produce to beat the band. We all remember that. Now he is telling them to cut back. What better way is there to destroy incentive than to do that? When a minister does that, he destroys the faith of the people in any form of government. When we cannot find honesty in the higher echelons of government, how can we find honesty in other segments of our society? One of the worst things which could happen to Canadians would be to learn how to be dishonest. Once people become dishonest, they lose their worth-and this we cannot afford.
How can we measure the worth of the programs governments are instituting? This is one of the main problems the Auditor General has to face. How do we measure the worth of any individual in a department? How do we measure manhour worth? This is a very complicated subject which deserves consideration, and this government would do well to work in conjunction with the Auditor General to devise programs which can be set in place whereby there can be a certain measurement of the man-hour worth of civil servants within departments. We, as members of parliament, are a cost to the taxpayer, and when I discuss the worth of anyone, members are included. I have to think about the expenditures which are paid by the taxpayers. Certain publications come to our desks and sometimes I think that the government is penny wise and pound foolish. How do we deal with items which the government considers petty, when $1 million means so little to it? In many ways there could be a considerable amount saved.
The press carried a story to the effect that a grand move had been made by the government to save paper by using both sides of every page. I suggest that the number of pages should be considered first; then using both sides might have some impact. I doubt if any member of parliament could estimate the number of tons of paper delivered to his office by hand or by mail in any given week. I want to mention a few unnecessary documents or papers which could be eliminated or decreased. Perhaps this will make government members realize that we on this side are making observations and suggestions to the government which it can use in order to cut down expenditures. We do not need copies of speeches or statements delivered in the House of Commons. That is a waste of time and a complete abuse of paper. Hansard gives us this information.
I have here a speech in very colourful form. It was a speech by the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs (Mr. Abbott)-who is a good fellow-at second reading of the borrowers' and depositors' protection bill given on November 1, 1976. All that is in Hansard, so why do we have to have it delivered to our offices? The Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Lalonde) addressed a national conference with regard to mental retardation. We received that address in both English and French. There are few hon. members in this House who read both versions. Surely they read only one or the other. Hon. members should request which version they

want. I agree that they should have either one, but I think it should be the responsibility of hon. members to request whether they want English or French speeches delivered to their offices. That would prevent much paper from going into waste-paper baskets.
I suggest that speeches delivered by members of the cabinet, their parliamentary secretaries or representatives should be supplied only to hon. members who request them. Even if hon. members had time to use documents and speeches in either English or French, no one should receive copies in both languages unless there is a specific request. A circular to each office with simple questions would take care of that duplication.
Large numbers of envelopes come to our offices, and they are sized 816 by 11, 15 by 916 and even bigger on occasion. They are used to deliver just one sheet which, if folded, would fit into a No. 9 or No. 10 envelope. That happens on a continuing basis. The Public Service Commission is one of the chief offenders. Time and again competition posters of one or two pages are sent out in 15 by 916 envelopes. Thousands of them go out across Canada daily. The waste is incalculable. I have one here. There seems to be no will on the part of government departments to cut back this extra cost.
Then, of course, there is other dressing-up which is wasteful. I refer to the use of heavy and unusually glossy folders which enclose pamphlets, speeches and other information from departmental branches or government offices, usually of ministers. These are useless and unnecessary and I wonder why they are ordered at all. I and other hon. member have examples of these. 1 have one here. It is from the Unemployment Insurance Commission. Another is from Information Canada. So it goes, Mr. Speaker. While I realize and understand the importance of publishing reports, background papers, books and other documents in two languages, surely every person, whether in parliament or not, would be satisfied with one copy in one language. More often than not, one copy is thrown out if for no other reason than to save space in the office. I am sure I am speaking about something of which all members are aware. As members of parliament, we have to take issue with this because if we are to cut back we have to do it in these areas where it will not affect the development of our country.
I am very sure that these are the areas governments will have to look at in order to get away from the terrible deficit which faces us at the present time, and possibly again next year. Canadians are getting sick and tired of being taken for a ride-whether it is by "Langair," "Lang rent-a-car", "Lang's fliers", or what have you. They are just sick and tired of the way their tax dollars are spent.
After those preliminary remarks, Mr. Speaker, I want to get down to why I oppose this bill. One year ago the minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat Board was adamant about bringing the grain stabilization bill before this House. Now he wants to renege on the government's payments into that stabilization fund. He is demanding that producers pay their
November 16, 1976

share, which could amount to $50 million per year according to his parliamentary secretary. The government must-and I emphasize this-be held responsible, and this portion of the bill must be deleted, because grain producers are going to lose faith in the government if they do not receive fair play.
Promises are not good enough-promises that three, four, five or six years ahead the government will have not only to pay in their portion to the fund but also will have to reimburse the treasury for that portion for which the producers may be liable. 1 am sure everyone realizes that our economy will not be in good condition if the time ever comes that we have to pay out from this fund. It means our economy is going to be in the doldrums and will be a load on the taxpayers if it has to pay back money which should have been paid in this year or next year as the program continues.
If the government cannot afford to make the payments now when times are good, how will it make them when the going gets tough, Mr. Speaker? It is irresponsible for any government to bring in this type of legislation and renege on payment. This is not the way business operates in Canada. What would happen if a business reneged on payment of income tax? The Department of National Revenue would move in and freeze its bank account. I am sure all members of parliament have had to deal with such situations.
If the federal government, through the Department of National Revenue, has the right to freeze bank accounts and finances of citizens, those citizens should have the right to move in and freeze a certain part of the revenue of Canada. We have to hold this minister responsible for at least this part of the bill, Mr. Speaker. It is of fundamental importance that we do not allow the government to adopt this unbusinesslike practice of delaying payments which are due. I am sure even the hon. member for Assiniboia (Mr. Goodale) would agree that at all costs the government must make its payments current, and keep them current, because the fate of producers is at stake.
The cost of farm labour is increasing and it is becoming more and more difficult to get people to work. I think that is true of industry as well. 1 am sure all members realize that it is becoming difficult to get educated people, trained people and technologists to do the jobs which are required in business in this country. It has been said, and 1 think correctly so, that a person has to be re-educated, that life is a continuing sphere of education and that we have to develop certain educational attributes five or six times during a lifetime.
It would, therefore, seem penny wise and pound foolish for the government to cut $20 million from the Manpower training program when labour, business and agriculture are demanding a higher degree of technical ability. While this $20 million is being cut from the training program, the budget of the unemployment insurance fund is being increased by $700 million. This just does not make sense, Mr. Speaker. Surely we are moving in the wrong direction. We should be retraining personnel and giving them the opportunity to work into our technical system. If we are to continue in the forefront of technology in the world today, we must continue to train
Restraint of Government Expenditures people. We must adapt to situations and circumstances and participate in the development of this land of which we are so justly proud and in which we all have the right to participate.


Mr. Speaker, it is interesting to hear the opposition criticizing and attacking. That is their function, 1 suppose; but if they would be a little more practical and offer some real suggestions, I think they would be well received not only by the government but by the people of Canada.
As far as the restraint policy is concerned and the way it is outlined in Bill C-19, it embodies a firm intention to reduce spending, not only the budgetary and statutory items but also non-statutory items. The budget has been increasing at a rate of 20 per cent to 24 per cent, but it will be cut down to 16 per cent.
Of course, the government does not admit, nor does any economist, that government spending is the cause of the present level of inflation. We must keep repeating this because people try to cloud the issue by saying government spending is the cause of the trouble. I repeat, inflation is worldwide and it was going up at an acceptable, although deplorable, rate even before the OPEC countries quadrupled oil prices. Since that price rise came into effect, inflation has run rampant. Even so, this government has led this country down a well-lit path of economic stability. It is about time hon. members opposite realized this.
The government is being criticized for its record on unemployment, but one must realize that our record with regard to the rate of increase of unemployment is still one of the best in the industrialized western world. Naturally, an unemployment rate of 6 per cent or 7.5 per cent is not acceptable or desirable, but if you want to be honest you will concede, after examining all the facts, that our record is among the best. The same can be said of our rate of inflation and standard of living.


We are not number one in that regard. The United States is number one.


The hon. member says the United States is number one. I expect hon. members opposite to criticize us, but I would prefer hearing good advice which we could follow. 1 have heard hon. members opposite offer much criticism, but since 1972 I have heard few suggestions as to what they would do if they were in our place. One wonders how gullible the opposition thinks the people of Canada are. Of course, not only opposition members opposite criticize us; the media also acts as a secondary opposition, taking it upon itself to criticize the government when it thinks we are not doing an adequate job. Mr. Speaker, we can take criticism because we know we are providing good government.
We must realize that democratic government in any country of the industrialized world is a most tenuous affair these days. I should like to know what the opposition would do if they were in our place. I keep asking the opposition that question

November 16, 1976
Restraint of Government Expenditures
because it is important to know the answer. I think opposition criticism leads to misrepresentation of certain facts and this troubles our electorate. If the opposition were honest, it would say what it would do if it were the government. As soon as we hear honest criticism we will provide the appropriate answers.


You people are not experts in that field.


The people of Canada are in favour of stable government and do not believe conditions are nearly as unstable as hon. members opposite make out. Part of our present-day troubles may be blamed upon the absolute misrepresentation of facts and twisting of truth. This must stop. We need statesmen-and 1 do not see many on the other side of the House. Actually, 1 should like to know when hon. members opposite are going to produce one statesman.


There are more on my side than there are on yours.


Let me now deal with the government's proposed cutbacks. The government, in trying to reduce spending, will divert certain expenditures, eliminate others and cut down on certain activities. The first step was taken some time ago and was rather painful. The salaries of members of the House of Commons and the Senate, of judges of the Supreme Court, the Federal Court and provincial superior courts and of senior public servants were frozen. That was supposed to be a good example for the rest of the country, but perhaps it went unnoticed. I do not know if we received any thanks for our gesture.
The government has decided to terminate the Opportunities for Youth program, Information Canada and the Company of Young Canadians. Opinion on such programs and agencies was somewhat divided. Perhaps they would not be discontinued if there were no need for restraint. 1 think they were all examples of a broadminded approach to certain Canadian social difficulties.
By not indexing family allowances, the government hopes to save $221.3 million in a year. 1 think most Canadians are satisfied that with unemployment insurance and other social security programs such as old age security, widows pensions and the guaranteed income supplement, we are doing our best to look after those in difficulty because of unemployment or lack of income. If we can save $221.3 million without creating hardship, 1 think we should do it, although 1 do not like cutting back on any kind of pension.
The government has also decided that it will defer or reduce loans to Crown corporations in the hope that they will get their financing from the commercial sector. We look on our Crown corporations much as we look on our LIP projects. We look askance at people who come to us in the third year of a LIP project and say they want a hand-out to keep this or that good work going. We expect people operating LIP projects to make them self-supporting within the first two years. We are applying the same reasoning to our Crown corporations and reducing the loans which will be made available from the central government. We feel that they, too, should work toward
{Mr. Railton.)
independence and prosperity. But please remember that many Crown corporations were set up in the beginning because their activities were important to all Canadians. They were financed by the government because in the beginning they could not be profitable. 1 am thinking of Crown corporations like the CBC, Air Canada and the CNR. Now we are urging them to become self-supporting.
There is to be a reduction in planned expenditures, the total of budgetary and non-budgetary items amounts to $1.5 billion. These reductions are being carried out on target. In other words, without such reductions the main estimates brought down in February this year would have been $1 billion higher, and the budgets of the Crown corporations would have been $500 million higher. In order to reduce expenditures we must amend several laws which give statutory authority for money to be spent on certain programs. For instance, we are to amend part of the adult occupational training program. The provision for granting certain annual increases is to be repealed and the government will substitute a provision which will permit the setting of these allowances by regulation. There will not be an automatic indexation. Then there is the Company of Young Canadians Act. We have to amend that act. 1 was not greatly gripped by that act in the first place. 1 thought it was somewhat far out.
I mentioned family allowances. That act will have to be amended also. I am rather sorry about the Industrial Research and Development Incentives Act. When I first saw this legislation I thought we were taking away from our eventual prosperity by reducing money to research and commercial and manufacturing industrial development. There is no doubt that the National Research Council does provide a great deal of industrial research. It was not considered that the research and development incentives to private companies added a great deal to the improvement of technology.
The government has been giving manufacturers and industry in general, including primary producers such as oil companies and resource industries, a very good thing by allowing them the 10 per cent incentive deferral. The only thing we request, and we still keep this in force, is that the corporations reinvest in their plant and machinery; in other words, incentives have to be based on profitability, productivity and reinvestment.
Then we have the Supply and Services Appropriation Act of 1970. That item was Information Canada. Many people in this country regarded Information Canada as nothing more than a frill we could live without. Its abolition shows the serious intention of the government with regard to cutting out expenditures that are not necessary. The only thing done to the Western Grain Stabilization Act was to defer it. No one is going to lose anything; everyone will be paid their interest on the amount which is being deferred.
Then we come to the Railway Act. We have to realize that transportation companies must work toward becoming selfsupporting, the same as any other company. 1 mentioned that
November 16, 1976

fact with regard to Crown corporations and similar institutions. This act will remove the subsidies for removing grain and flour for export to the east. It will give us breathing space until the whole matter is organized. This is one of the greatest things the Minister of Transport (Mr. Lang) is now busy doing.
I have some figures which will be of interest. All ministers are cutting many millions of dollars out of their budgets: Agriculture, $10 million; Consumer Affairs, $1 million; Energy, $16 million; Environment, $11 million; Industry, Trade and Commerce, $13 million; Labour, $6 million; Manpower and Immigration, $56 million; Health and Welfare, $223.8 million. I could go on and on. The total for budgetary items amounts to $828.5 million, and non-budgetary items to $726.8 million, for a total of $1,555.3 million. This shows that the government's intentions are serious and that they are carrying them out.
Many things have been said about this government by members on the opposite side, as well as in various articles which have appeared in the press. When the people of Canada hear this, they think about what "that terrible government" is doing. For example, it is claimed that in the ten-year period just past, Ottawa increased its spending by 600 per cent. Actually, this increase was 388 per cent, which is quite in line and parallel with the growth of the gross national product.
I am going to quote Richard S. Malone, the publisher of the Globe and Mail. He wrote a scathing article about the government and its expenditures. Practically everything he said was incorrect. If you are going to criticize this government, for goodness sake be accurate. We will then do our best to make it right. There is no way you can make right in people's minds a misrepresentation which has been intentional. People fall for it and believe it. If members opposite are responsible, they will stop this.
Mr. Malone stated that overspending could only be done with devalued dollars or legal counterfeiting. That is a ridiculous statement. The budgetary policy is not determined only by the requirements of the federal public sector, but also by the imperatives of macro-economic management; in other words, what is necessary to sustain growth and to check inflation in the Canadian economy as a whole. One of the factors which led the government to introduce price and income controls a year ago last October was precisely the need to avoid, at this juncture, changes which are too abrupt in our economic policy; in other words, that accusation was demagogy. He further said that the financial estimates and budget in Ottawa will call for an even greater increase in spending, an increase of 16 to 19 per cent, quite apart from the supplementary estimates. He was quite wrong, assuming that the figure will be 16 per cent not only for budgetary but for non-budgetary amounts and all the expenditures which will be contained in the main estimates.
Another statement was that a recent estimate shows that 43 per cent of Canadians who are employed are on government payrolls. What an asinine statement! I will go through a little exercise to illustrate why I say that. Public servants in Ottawa and members of the armed forces total 412,000. That is, the
Restraint of Government Expenditures number of Canadians directly employed by the federal government. It represents 4.4 per cent of the country's employed labour force. Therefore, his figures are wrong by ten times the actual amount. There are 346,000 provincial public servants and 267,000 municipal employees. If they are included, the total number of government employees is 1,025,000-11 per cent of the total number of employees in Canada, not 43 per cent.
There are approximately 637,000 employees in the hospital and welfare sector, and in the educational sector-such as school teachers-there are 662,000 employees. These are not direct employees of the federal government. However, even if we included those figures in the number of employees of the three levels of government, the total is something over two million, which is about 25 per cent of the employed labour force in Canada.
What happened to the Crown corporations? Employed in that field amounted to 270,939. That brings us up to 28 per cent, or 2,595,000. In other words, that criticism of the federal government was ten times wrong. If the hon. member wants to be nasty and include all governments, national and provincial, and all the agencies which work for the government, he is still wrong: Even in the totals we supplied he has doubled the figure. 1 believe we are entitled to fair criticism. We should not hear any more of that type of nonsense.
It is rather interesting to note that for the last 10 or 15 years our gross national product has been increasing at the rate of about 5.5 per cent. Canada's growth performance is better than that of the majority of OECD countries including West Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. In 1974, while real growth contracted by 2.1 per cent in the United States and by one-tenth of 1 per cent in the OECD as a whole, the GNP in Canada rose by 2.8 per cent. In the recession of 1975 only five OECD countries were expected to achieve any degree of real growth and the GNP was forecast to decline by 2 per cent or more in France, the United Kingdom and West Germany. In Canada, the GNP was expected to fall by only 1 per cent. But instead of experiencing a decline of 1 per cent, we increased the GNP by 0.2 per cent. In fact, we were the only country in that small group of countries to experience an increase.
Hon. members who consider the figures will realize there is a great deal of misinformation being given to the Canadian people. I deplore the misinformation which emanates from the opposition and from the media.


You are paranoid, doctor.


No. That is a very difficult diagnosis for a member on the back benches over there to make. Our living standard is the third best in the whole world. For a long time we were second only to the United States, but we were edged out recently by Iceland. I do not wish to take up any more time of the House. I realize my speech might have been a little difficult for members on the other side to listen to because I

November 16, 1976
Restraint of Government Expenditures might have sounded partisan. But I am not partisan; I like to regard myself as being fair-minded.


Mr. Speaker, I know there will not be much publicity given to anything 1 have to say today on Bill C-19, or anything else for that matter, since the news on everybody's mind comes from the province of Quebec. 1 have been watching the faces of members opposite this morning, as I did last night. They are asking themselves: What happened? In discussing the bill before us, I shall attempt to put forward some ideas hon. members may wish to consider even though they are very few in number over there. 1 can understand that; the shock to them must be unbelievable.
I intend to show how bills such as C-19 which are so often slipped through the House after a discussion directed to details, such as we have heard this morning, often contain principles of great substance, principles which are somehow lost sight of. If hon. members would read the speech which the Minister of Transport (Mr. Lang) made last Wednesday, and then read the maiden speech of the new member for St. John's West (Mr. Crosbie), 1 believe they would better understand the significance and the danger of this type of posturing bill. The measure before us is in several parts, but the part which draws my attention-I hope it will draw the attention of all Canadians who believe in one Canada-is clause 15 which simply repeals section 272 of the Railway Act. Mr. Speaker, that clause is a direct attack on the very foundation of the federal system.
Every schoolchild, when they used to teach history in schools, learned that our country became a country because the various colonies across the eastern part of this part of the continent did not want to become absorbed into the country to the south, the United States, and the only way in which it was possible to tie those colonies together in an economic as well as political unity was through the provision of transportation. Those of us who know the history of our country in that early period understand the importance of the intercolonial railway system in bringing those eastern colonies into touch with central Canada and each other. That railway system was the tie which brought those six colonies together: admittedly, Newfoundland did not come in until much later, but that was the tie. Those of us who come from the west and know the history of that part of the country are aware that it was the decision of the government of the day to build a railroad which was uneconomic, marginal and difficult to construct, which brought the four western provinces into confederation.
Any person who is familiar with these Parliament Buildings knows that the largest committee room in the place is the railway committee room. Every member of parliament who comes here should walk into that room, look around in silence, and ask himself why they chose so large a room to be the railway committee room. It was because transportation is the very foundation of this country. That is why the railway committee room is so large. For the great bulk of our history it was the most used room in this entire building. It has not been used very much in recent years because the government has

forgotten that Canadian history has been largely concerned with bringing great regions, far from the centre, into one Canada, one nation.
Those words are not just an empty slogan, Mr. Speaker; they are the basis of our political thought, the philosophy which makes the economics of this nation viable. Yet we find in the bill before us, a bill which professes to deal with the saving of money, an attack on the very foundation of our unity. There are, of course, other expressions of the same philosophy, for example, the St. Lawrence Seaway in more recent days. Though it is hardly ever mentioned in the House, the building of that seaway was an effort to make it easier for goods from the eastern part of the country to reach the central regions. For years no one has mentioned the fact that for the great northern regions of Quebec and Ontario and the northern parts of the four western provinces, together with the Yukon and the Arctic Islands, transportation was the key. The people of Canada as a whole have paid, without question, for this northern transportation system. We are still doing that, and 1 hope will continue to do so.
If we are to hold this country together, it must be recognized by our political leaders in the federal government and each province that transportation and communications are the key. That is how our federal system developed. The key to making the system work was the recognition that wherever one lived, wherever areas were opened up, there would be equal treatment. Basically, Mr. Speaker, it is transportation inequity that forces the westerner to be alienated from the central part of this country. Basically, it is transportation inequity that forces the Atlantic provinces to feel forgotten. Basically, it is transportation inequity and remoteness from communication which make our northern people so hostile to those of us who live in the south. We have built this nation by recognizing that if we want political union, one Canada, we must have economic union. The key to this is transportation, along with harbours, docks, search and rescue and all the other facilities. This has been our history, and it will be our history for many decades to come.
The attack on federalism by the government in this bill, using the excuse of saving money, is not an isolated one. In the last three years, just think of the attacks we have had in this House on the part of the government on the basic foundations of our federal system. No matter what kind of scare campaign you run, Mr. Speaker, you cannot get away from the fact that there is the belief in the minds of the people that this principle which builds our country and makes it strong is being forgotten. Let me give the House an example or two of what makes this seem so devilish. Just three years ago the government introduced the petroleum administration bill which was a direct attack on the wealth of the provinces. The government said that because it represented all the people, it had the right to break the constitution and take ownership and control of the resources in the provinces of this country. I opposed the petroleum administration bill, as did all my colleagues.
November 16, 1976

When the mines ministers met in December, 1974, nine out of the ten mines ministers of the provinces, led by the mines minister of the province of Quebec, opposed the bill and the minister had to hold it up so they could consult with the provinces whose resources they were stealing. In mentioning that to the House I direct my remarks particularly at members of the Liberal party who, after the results last night, must be wondering what is wrong.
You cannot safely attack the basic principles of this country unless you know what makes the people tick. What makes the people of rich resource provinces like Newfoundland and Quebec angry is that they sense that this government is constantly attacking the powers and taking the wealth of the provinces, trying to centralize them. 1 do not find any difference on this issue between the Liberals and the NDP; both believe they know better than the people how to run this country.


Oh, oh!


Poor Alvin; he cannot understand the difference.


I love to hear the suckers roar. This is one example, along with this bill, of an attack upon the federal system. Many members have been around here long enough to remember what happened in 1974 when we had a budget in the spring and a budget in the fall. We called them the Turner budgets. The Turner budget in the spring and the Turner budget in the fall were attacks on the basic foundations of our federal system. The government has a majority in this House-but not across the country-and feels it represents all the Canadian people. It feels it has the right to take away the wealth of provincial governments and their people. Sooner or later, Mr. Speaker, when that budget is overturned, it will be safe for Mr. Turner to come back into the House. But until it is, he will not come back because he knows that in those budgets of his of 1974 he attacked the basic economic foundations of all provinces.
I mention these points because this bill pretends to appeal to us to do something that we have to do, namely, reduce government expenditures. But when you read the speech of the Minister of Transport it is apparent this is not just a one-year shot. He knows that if he gets rid of section 272 of the Railway Act he will blast the people east of Montreal, because this bill affects only those east of Montreal. Let me read to hon. members section 272 since it is important not only to the Atlantic provinces but to the whole country:
(2) For the purpose of encouraging the continued use of the eastern ports for the export of grain and flour,
(a) rates for grain moving in bulk for export to any eastern port from any
inland point over any line of a railway company subject to the jurisdiction of
parliament shall be maintained at the level of rates applying on the 30th day
of November, 1960, to the movement of such grain to eastern ports-
The rates that we set up as a government in 1960 allowed these ports to be used by the railways not only to keep people in the Atlantic provinces at work but to give us access to markets year-round. This founding principle of the economic
Restraint of Government Expenditures security of ports east of Montreal is now being attacked in this legislation. They want to repeal section 272, so let me just drive this point home. This bill may be an attempt to pretend that they are cutting back expenses, but it is really part of an over-all program to reduce the power of the provinces and to turn all decision-making over to the government in Ottawa.
If the government was elected to make its own decisions, there could be an argument for it. But the truth is that this government does not run the country. The country is run by a small group of civil servants who seize the decision-making powers in each major department and run the country. They know best and they tell ministers what to say and what to do. I ask all westerners, all people from Quebec and the Atlantic provinces, and all northerners in Ontario, the Northwest Territories and the Yukon, to rally to the fact that this attack on the "at and near" rates going to the maritimes is an attack on them all, and I ask them to throw the bill out, and this section in particular.
I have related my remarks to the political situation. It must be abundantly clear that just as once upon a time Saskatchewan and Quebec were the political heartlands of the Liberal party, provinces on which they depended for their massive support to overcome the votes of other provinces and form the government of Canada, today those heartlands are disappearing. The Liberals are pretty well subdued in Saskatchewan and now it looks as if after 90 years of domination in the province of Quebec their heartland there is beginning to shake.
I should like to advise my Liberal friends across the way that Saskatchewan is gone from them, that Quebec is going and it will not be long before they go, too, unless they start taking control of their government. They have the voices of the backbenchers; they can tell the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) what to say and what to think. He will not kick them out. He does not dare. Everybody who has been kicked out comes back. 1 say to them, "Stand up and express your views."
In 1974 the cattle industry was in trouble. The Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Whelan) asked us to support him in amending the price stabilization act. All parties supported him in the committee. We put it through. Then when the bill went before the cabinet and treasury board, the minister was turned down in respect of the very act he had put through on behalf of all parties, the Liberals, the Progressive Conservatives, the New Democrats and the Creditistes. We know who runs this country. It is not those on the back benches-but the people in the back benches have the chance to stand up. I think their Prime Minister will listen today. He was an angry man last night when he realized that one cannot, by propaganda, fight the whole country. Some people will stand up against that kind of thing.
I say to members opposite, "Put the fear of God in your Prime Minister and speak up for these areas-the northern part of Quebec, the northern part of Ontario, the Atlantic provinces and the far north. Speak up, because this is the basis of our federal system." I do not want to embellish the point
1030

November 16, 1976
Restraint of Government Expenditures any more. I put it before you seriously, Mr. Speaker, that by the repeal of section 272 of the Railway Act the government is attacking one of the basic foundations of our federal system. If members opposite cannot hear my voice and are frightened to speak up in front of their Prime Minister, there is not much I can do. But at least I have put forward my views, and 1 intend-like the hon. member for St. John's West-to continue putting them forward because we on this side of the House do not intend to sit down and let this matter lie.
We have heard from the hon. member for Welland (Mr. Railton) that we are not putting forward ideas. I have gone back over my speeches in the last 15 years in the House. 1 have laid ideas in the laps of government members. Last December, before the Christmas adjournment, I rose in the House and quietly asked the Prime Minister, in view of the budget and the price and wage controls brought in in October, whether during the recess he would quietly consider the posture the government was taking vis-a-vis the monetary and fiscal situation in this country. The government had brought in wage and price controls and I could see the economy slowing down to a stop and levelling off.
Now we sit on the edge of a precipice and may be going into a lengthy period of recession. The Prime Minister said he would consider that proposal. But then he stood up on December 28 and said we had to have permanent controls because we could not trust the people to make their own decisions. He said we were such a greedy nation that we had to have controls imposed by the elite of the country. I throw that at the House because this is another attempt on my part to remind members opposite that there are proposals on the record.
One can fiddle around with all these little things and get peanuts. What is the cause of inflation? It is caused by the government. This is what embarrasses politicians. We talk about the necessity to cut down on everything. All members had their incomes frozen at $24,000. Aren't we good boys! Yet we have a minister running up and down the country at $750,000 a time to see his constituents rather than ride on Air Canada. I think maybe it is cruel and unnecessary punishment for ministers to have to ride on Air Canada, but at the same time this is what destroys our posture that we are trying to save money.
This bill is another issue which is just a posture. Let me give you a list, Mr. Speaker, of some of the proposals I have put forward in this House. You can look it up if you really want to get at the causes in the western world for this inflation. Let us get interest rates down. Our interest rates in Canada are 4 per cent higher than in the United States because we have a group of economic nitwits who believe it is necessary to have higher interest rates in this country in order to keep money flowing into Canada. What a mythology to impose upon the Canadian people, the greatest saving people in the world!
We must get the interest rates down. That is fundamental in getting at inflation, price and wage controls and this type of legislation. Second, get your land costs down around the cities. Housing costs have gone up, but greater than that has been the unbelievable escalation in the price of land around the cities. If

you do get the people who are doing it, you only get half a dozen in each city. Just because they are Liberals does not mean they should dominate the whole country and force prices up. Get your land costs down around the cities. The legislation is in place to do that.
Third, we have tremendously costly universal social welfare programs which cost $18 billion to $20 billion a year. The people want those programs, but common sense and knowledge should tell the government that positive individual incentives should be put into these programs or we will lose them. That is the subject of a speech I have made here on several occasions.
Fourth, in trying to get at the cause of inflation and all these costs, you force men and women in the cities to ask for higher and higher wages in an effort to keep up, and they never manage this. The government should use the knowledge and precedents that are available and end this wasteful labour-management confrontation. Everyone has heard of the theory of productivity and how it is rewarded. Everyone has heard of the portability of pensions and insurance. Everyone has heard of the formula methods of achieving wage settlements. Strikes are as outmoded as the dodo bird. They cost not only billions of dollars but smash the labour man and the businessman at the same time. The knowledge and the precedents are there. Members opposite should not walk into this House and say that we never put forward ideas.
The fifth point I want to mention is that if you want to get at inflation you should use the monetary and fiscal systems of this country to help the economy, and not fight them. It is said that 40 per cent of all revenue of our gross national product goes through government hands. That 40 per cent can be utilized in a way to reinforce the other 60 per cent and we would have a 100 per cent economy, or we could use that 40 per cent of government financial control, to work against the economy and reduce the net to less than 60 per cent. There are all sorts of proposals. The Porter royal commission recommended several. No one pays any attention to the Porter royal commission. That report was published in 1964. Some members think it is a dirty book. That is wrong, because if it was a dirty book they would all read it. Look at the proposals there. I quoted them to the Prime Minister in the House on one occasion. There was no reaction.
Members opposite are not interested in economics. All they are interested in are these posturing devices of exposing themselves on every occasion so that they will be seen, rather than getting at the economic problems. If they have not learned any lesson from yesterday, they should have. A government goes along trying to amaze its people by posing as their great defenders, becomes involved in discussions which arouse the emotions of the people, and then takes away their civil liberties that government will be defeated. We still cannot get away from the fundamental fact that what changed that government in Quebec was the failure to deal with economic matters. You cannot ask people to accept a low level of living year after year and decade after decade without their asking themselves whether they could not have a government of the people who sometimes gave them economic well-being. So I suggest that
November 16, 1976

the government should use the economic and fiscal system to work with the economy, instead of against it.
Mr. Speaker, I think I have made my point, which is that no one in any party in the House is opposed to restraints on superfluous spending, but when the government slips into this bill a proposal which undermines the basic foundation of our federal system, the pledge made 109 years ago and renewed by government after government of all political stripes since that time, a pledge with regard to 