On the order: Government Orders:
Resuming debate on the motion of the Solicitor General,-That Bill C-84, An Act to amend the Criminal Code in relation to the punishment for murder and certain other serious offences, be now read a third time.
Deferred division on the motion in amendment thereto of Mr. Condon, seconded by Mr. Knowles (Norfolk-Haldimand),-That Bill C-84, An Act to amend the Criminal Code in relation to the punishment for murder and certain other serious offences, be not now read a third time but that it be read a third time this day three months hence.
Mr. Speaker, when I left the House yesterday to attend the commemoration service for the eleven Israeli athletes who were killed in Munich, I remarked to my parliamentary secretary that I hoped I would not see him again until Wednesday, and he smiled reassuringly.


Change secretaries.


However, some rather unforeseen difficulties seem to have arisen partly because, if I may say, the French version of the House order which had been approved did not accord with the English version. This is a point which perhaps ought to be looked into, but be that as it may, the House leaders met this morning to see what might be the best way of proceeding with the continuation of the debate on Bill C-84. The House leaders are agreed on all points, particularly that we do not in any way want to hamper the debate on Bill C-84. Indeed, our wish is to facilitate it and to bring it to an eventual conclusion.
Our unanimous recommendation, therefore, is that with the consent of the House we proceed now with the debate on the main motion for the third reading of Bill C-84.


Mr. Speaker, I listened very carefully to what the government House leader has said, and he has put the proposition precisely. As one of the House leaders I certainly consent, and I commend that arrangement to all members of the House.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, this is an arrangement to which we also agree.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, but I think the government House leader forgot to mention one little thing which we also discussed this morning, namely that if the discussion on third reading ends before one o'clock this afternoon, there should be an oral questions period this afternoon.


Is it understood, therefore, after discussion this morning, that the House will consider it one o'clock if the debate terminates so that there will in fact be certain to be a two o'clock proceeding this afternoon, including a question period and routine proceedings? The recommendation before the House is that, notwithstanding the practices and precedents of the House which would preclude discussion of Bill C-84 as long as the amendment motion remains outstanding, the House give unanimous consent to proceed to use the time today to discuss the main motion for third reading of Bill C-84. Does the House consent to that?


Agreed.


Agreed and so ordered.
Was the hon. member for Moncton (Mr. Jones) rising on a point of order?


Mr. Speaker, I was not apprised of the actual consent for this Procedure until a few moments ago. I wonder if the government House leader would have the courtesy to at least advise me. One of the House leaders did, but I should like to hear it from the one who has to announce it to the House.


Hear, hear!


Order, please. I take it that the hon. member for Moncton (Mr. Jones) is not on this occasion withholding his consent but is establishing a plan for the future and a very valid one.


Hear, hear!


Agreed and so ordered. Orders of the day.


The House resumed, from Monday, July 12, consideration of the motion of Mr. Allmand that Bill C-84 to amend the Criminal Code in relation to the punishment for murder and certain other serious offences, be read the third time and do pass, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Condon.
July 13, 1976
Capital Punishment
Mr. Speaker, I must admit there are times in the House when we have the impression it is absolutely useless to make a speech. As regards the discussion on abolition of capital punishment, I think we can state, if we consider the position of the cabinet, that it would be pointless to extend this debate. However, as the majority of Canadians have already showed that they do not agree with the position of the federal government, we should try once again to give them a little common sense, a little logic and to inform the leader of the government and his staff that the protection of Canadian society is more important than the personal principles of any member of the cabinet.


Tell that to Mr. Clark.


I already did.

Mr. Speaker, I think before continuing with this debate on capital punishment, and without intending to prolong it needlessly nor to repeat arguments that others have already advanced, I should like to congratulate those members of the House who courageously and persistently have fought so hard both in the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs and at report stage in this House for the cause of social order and common sense in advocating the death penalty for premeditated murders. Without discriminating against anyone may I with your permission, Mr. Speaker, single out the determination and the resourcefulness with which the hon. member for Burnaby-Richmond-Delta (Mr. Reynolds) has led the fight.


Hear, hear!


He has been an inspiration to everyone, and he has sincerely believed in the necessity of keeping capital punishment in order to check and prevent the numerous activities of organized crime.
After a conscious examination of the views expressed in favour of the abolition of capital punishment, I must admit that I remain unshaken in my opinion that, especially because of the existence of organized crime and in order to protect the lives of innocent people and to secure a greater degree of safety for our policemen and prison guards, Bill C-84 must be defeated on third reading.
During this debate I have been particularly impressed with what a convinced abolitionist like the right hon. member for Prince Albert (Mr. Diefenbaker) said about the necessity of retaining capital punishment for such odious crimes as high treason or espionage in wartime. His experience as prime minister during a difficult period of the cold war and his lifelong devotion to the cause of fundamental freedom and penal reform should have been enough to convince the government to amend this bill on this point at least. It should also incite some members who voted for the bill on second reading to reflect further and, hopefully, to reverse their position and join the ranks of the retentionists.

It is no mere coincidence, but the result of a vast experience and constant devotion to the cause of law and order that another abolitionist of international fame, Mr. Jean

Imbert, whose book entitled La peine de mort is authoritative in this field, also comes to the conclusion that the state must maintain capital punishment for crimes of high treason and those of spying in times of war.
Is it not terrifying, Mr. Speaker, to think that the adoption of this bill would leave Canada without any real punishment for those who would conspire against the security of the state or the lives of its leader and other officials?

As discussion progressed in the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs members of the House discovered a series of serious omissions, shortcomings and deficiencies in the legislation, giving the bill all the appearance of having been unduly improvised and rushed to this House. For instance, there is no provision for a more severe penalty-which could be death-for the commission of a second or even a third murder, yet it is not using scare tactics to suggest that the possibility of escape accompanied by murder by hardened criminals, is very real. Nobody can deny that. But under this bill the worst punishment such murderers can expect is to be condemned, for a second time, to life imprisonment. Mr. Speaker, there must be an end to softness or, as we say in French: il y a une limite a la bonasserie.
Had the government been sensible enough to accept amendments providing death sentences for high treason and second murder, I am sure some of the retentionists would have been more inclined to vote for this legislation. But as it stands now I, for one, cannot in conscience accept that the security of the state or the safety of prison guards and policemen should be put in jeopardy by the adoption of Bill C-84.
While I disagree with him, I do respect the views expressed by the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) in the course of this debate. I know that he is sincerely convinced of the rectitude of his position, as I am of my own. But I less than admire one argument brought forward by the Prime Minister when he spoke on second reading. Making his appeal to the House on June 15, as reported in Hansard, page 14499 the Prime Minister said:
It is not open to anyone among us to take refuge in the comforting illusion that we are debating nothing more than an abstract theory of criminal justice, and that it will be the Cabinet's sole responsibility to decide the actual fate of individual murderers if this bill is defeated. I want to make it very clear that, if a majority of hon. members vote against abolition, some people are going to be hanged. Their death would be a direct consequence of the negative decision made by this House on this bill.
Some people have held this statement from the Prime Minister as showing strong leadership. I personally regard it, on the contrary, as an attempt to scare and even to blackmail the opponents of Bill C-84 into voting against their own convictions for fear of being regarded as executioners.
There is something frightening in the Prime Minister's tactics; for members of parliament, while open to compassion, should nevertheless remain above such personal considerations as the ones the right hon. gentleman mentioned. Be it for murder, rape, theft or even a minor offence, we are here to determine the law of the land and
July 13, 1976

the penalties for misbehaviour. We are in no way responsible for the way citizens respond to legitimate decisions of this parliament; nor should we be influenced in the knowledge that in their disobedience of the law such persons will be imprisoned or put to death. The argument advanced by the Prime Minister in this regard is tantamount to undue pressure, impeding the freedom of thought for those who are about to take a very serious decision.

Mr. Speaker, I totally reject the allegations of the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) that, should Bill C-84 be defeated, those who vote against it will be responsible for the death of the murderers. None of us, including members of the cabinet, ought to feel guilty for action according to his conscience and enacting legislation to uphold social order and deterring the most hardened criminals from making attempts on the lives of others, especially policemen and prison guards. The first and only ones to be responsible for their own deaths would be those who have cold bloodedly slain their victims in defiance of a law which clearly and plainly stated the death penalty would be imposed for their crimes. Moreover, those criminals, during their trials and through appeals, had every chance to clear themselves and prove they deserved commutation.
The fact that the Prime Minister has thus attempted to personalize the debate, by pointing out to 11 prisoners awaiting the gallows, proves how desperate is the situation in which he has placed himself by trying to impose his own wishes on Parliament and the Canadian people.
However, it is the very same Prime Minister who has created this problem by systematically refusing, since 1968, to implement a legislation which has been twice ruled out by Parliament, during the time he has been a member of the cabinet. Only the Prime Minister is responsible for the situation in which he willingly placed himself and from which he is trying to extricate by setting up a detestable scarecrow to urge us to vote against our deepest convictions.

The Prime Minister knows very well that no member of parliament is asking for a mass execution of those waiting in the death rows. Every one of us, I dare say, would be satisfied to see the government exercise the royal prerogative of mercy in every case where it is warranted. As for the others, they knew the law when they committed their crimes. Moreover, they had been warned in no uncertain terms-


By the Prime Minister.


-by the Prime Minister himself on May 16, 1973, when his government proposed Bill C-2. I quote what the Prime Minister said on that day, as reported in Hansard, page 3843:
Those who mock the desire of Canadians for an orderly, law-abiding community, those who hold in contempt those restraints on human conduct that enable us to live as free men and women, will be shown that society is not only resilient but that it is capable of protecting itself and of meting out whatever punishment is required.
That is the end of the quotation from the Prime Minister. You remember, Mr. Speaker, during the October crisis how
Capital Punishment
the Prime Minister derided those weak-kneed bleeding hearts who, he said, were afraid to take the necessary measures to protect Canadians against a handful of FLQ members. You remember that, Mr. Speaker.

We also remember, Mr. Speaker, in what anguished terms the Prime Minister at that time-


It sounds like a sermon!


As the hon. member for Bonaventure-Iles-de-la-Madeleine (Mr. Bechard) says, the Prime Minister's speech did sound like a sermon.


Yours.


That is right. It sounded like a sermon when he was then warning people that the next FLQ victims might be either a bank or credit union manager, or the corner grocer or even an innocent child.
Without echoing the melodramatic tone of the Prime Minister, would I not be even more justified in resorting to the same argument the head of the government used during the October crisis, because bank robbers and hired assassins have given us ample proof that they will never hesitate to kill to reach their ends.
Mr. Speaker, because of the importance of this text, I wish to repeat the warning given on May 16, 1973 by the very distinguished right hon. Prime Minister of Canada to potential murderers of policemen and prison guards, and I quote:
Those who mock the desire of Canadians for an orderly, lawabiding community, those who hold in contempt those restraints on human conduct that enable us to live as free men and women, will be shown that society is not only resilient but that it is capable of protecting itself and of meting out whatever punishment is required.
Now then, what was the punishment advocated by the Prime Minister, what was it? It was the death penalty for the murder of policemen killed on duty. The Prime Minister cannot deny it today because, on October 24, 1973, he voted for Bill C-2 on second reading. Mr. Speaker, either the Prime Minister was convinced in 1973 of the necessity to maintain capital punishment in some specific circumstances, and if so nothing can explain the automatic commutations of death sentences made since then, or-and Bill C-84 confirms it eloquently-the head of the government was resorting to subterfuges to hide his real intentions from Parliament, and in that case I leave it to the public to judge his actions. As it happens, Mr. Speaker, the great majority of this public want Bill C-84 defeated. We will soon know, in a few days probably, whether the will of the public or the will of Parliament, under the direction of the Prime Minister, under the direction of his majority government, will prevail.

I hope we will not hear any further tales from the government side about the so-called free vote on Bill C-84.


Yes, you will.
Mi. Wagner: If we do, we shall respond. By moving this bill as a government bill, the Prime Minister has prevented his own colleagues in the cabinet-some of whom in the past have expressed contrary views-from now expressing
15274

July 13, 1976
Capital Punishment
their personal views or, to use the words of the Prime Minister, to vote according to their own conscience. Had the Prime Minister wanted a truly free vote, he would have asked a private member to bring in this bill, even on his own terms, and every member of this House could have voted as he wished, whether the member were a backbencher, a member of the cabinet or a member of the opposition.


Hear, hear!


As regards government backbenchers, had this been a private member's bill, they would not have been exposed to ever possible undue pressure not directly related to the capital punishment issue.
Mr. Speaker, I know that if Bill C-84 is accepted the morale of our policemen and especially of our prison guards will be greatly shaken. Yet I am sure that as law-abiding citizens those peace officers will accept, despite their reservations, their apprehensions and their fears, the will of a parliamentary majority. I hope at last there will not be massive resignations among them, which would jeopardize security in our penitentiary institutions.
But peace officers are men like everybody else. They are not inmune from errors or unpredictable reactions. Thus it is essential that in the performance of their duties they can enjoy the greatest possible serenity of mind. Will it be the case if Bill C-84 is accepted? I doubt it.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, I would like to recall what the right hon. Prime Minister himself stated, for it is strange, Mr. Speaker, how sometimes their own statements come back to haunt politicians. Might I remind you that the Prime Minister himself declared in this House on May 16, 1973, when Bill C-2 was under study, and I quote:
Out of fear for his safety, and the safety of his loved ones, even the most merciful of men becomes unwilling to assist the wayward.
Because of the importance of that statement, I want to read in English the warning expressed by the Prime Minister only three years ago:
Out of fear for his safety and the safety of his loved ones, even the most merciful of men will become unwilling to assist the wayward and the feckless.
I pray God, Mr. Speaker, that this warning of the Prime Minister will never become a prophecy.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, if I take part in the debate on third reading of Bill C-84, I do so not to delay the work of the House but rather to point out, once again, that if the government has reached the point where it introduces a bill to abolish capital punishment, it does so because of its many commutations in the last few years. To my mind, the government, through this bill, wants Parliament to approve what cabinet has done in recent years.
Mr. Speaker, I do not intend to speak at length at this stage because the leader of the Social Credit Party of

Canada dealt with the matter yesterday in some detail, and I share his point of view. That is why it would be useless to repeat the logical arguments that can be invoked to oppose passage of this bill.
I also listened very closely to the hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe (Mr. Wagner) who made a very sensible speech and recalled the words of the Prime Minister, at the time when discussions were echoed by the press throughout Canada, and to a certain extent I support the views expressed by the hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe (Mr. Wagner) on Bill C-84 concerning capital punishment.
I would have appreciated it, however, if the hon. member had been successful in convincing the leader of the official opposition to reconsider his position and go along courageously with those who oppose Bill C-84 for reasons as valid as those advocated by abolitionists. Having said that,
I still believe however, that if we could have a really free vote in this House, the leader of the opposition would also enjoy that choice. I do agree on that. But as I said earlier I am not yet convinced that a genuine free vote can be held in the House on that issue. Members of some parties are so used to following the party line that even if the government allows members to express themselves freely, they will not take this opportunity to vote according to the will of the population.
Mr. Speaker, I submit what I indicated a number of times, namely that on the occasion of such an important legislation, the people of Canada should have been consulted through a referendum. Not that kind of plebiscite that was held in 1941, when the Liberal government wanted to get released from their commitment that there would be no conscription across the country. Not a kind of referendum where members of parliament and ministers would appear one after the other before television, to try and convince the people to vote this or that way, but a true referendum, a really democratic one decreed by this House and held without TV debate.
When the people are consulted, they should be trusted to take their own responsibilities. Such a consultation would have given an opportunity for democracy to go through this difficult stage. More trust would have been shown toward the younger Canadians, and they would have realized that our parliamentary system, one of the best in the world, is capable of respecting the people's will and giving them an opportunity to express it when important decisions have to be taken.
The holding of such a referendum was flatly denied for a number of reasons. However, some groups held consultations, and I would take this opportunity to commend the Canadian Police Association for holding such a referendum on this subject. And I refer to the brief dated May 3, 1976 that was submitted to the Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs. May I quote the following excerpt from that document:
Our association recently circulated through various newspapers a questionnaire on capital punishment. Here is the response of the public to the following questions. Question No. 1: Should capital punishment be retained only for the murder of police officers on duty, or prison guards?
Reply of the public: Yes, 4,855; no, 55,425.
This is a significant reply obtained after free consultation.
July 13, 1976

Question No. 2: For the murder of anyone while carrying out a premeditated crime? Reply of the public: Yes, 55,374; no, 8,516. Question No. 3: Should the capital punishment issue be decided by a Canadian referendum? Reply of the public: Yes, 55,282; no, 3,444. Question No. 4: Are you against the death penalty because of the means of execution (hanging)? Reply of the public: Yes, 9,954; no, 44,258.
This is significant. The word "hanging" is not at issue, but the whole basis of the question is truly analyzed. People truly went to the bottom of things.
Question No. 5: If yes to question No. 4, what means of execution would you favour? Reply of the public: Electric chair: 2,822. Gas chamber: 2,486. Drugs: 2,911. Firing squad: 856. Any public means: 693. The means used by the murderer: 37.
I will come back to this question later.
Question No. 6: If you are against the death penalty by any method whatsoever, what penalty would you favour? Reply of the public: Psychiatric treatment and rehabilitation: 168. No parole: 11,712. Parole-194.
The number of respondents represents 87 per cent of the total population. It is therefore with good reason that members of Parliament oppose the passage of Bill C-84. They argue that te majority of the population favour retention of the death penalty. The population is absolutely right if we consider this consultation made by the Toronto Police Association.
Mr. Speaker, we have also received many letters from the public. I shall certainly not read even one of them because they all express approximately the same opinion. But I still insist that this is a very serious situation. We are all Christians. We all need some light and I believe that it would not be improper for the House to ask the Holy Ghost to enlighten us so that we may receive the enlightenment that we need before the vote and be truly able to take an action that will be in accordance with the wishes of the people. A proverb says Vox populi, vox Dei, which means that the voice of the people is the voice of God. As Christians, we must therefore have the humility to ask the enlightenment that we need to do what the people wish for the greater good of Canada.
I would like that between now and tomorrow, when we have the opportunity to ponder some more over the seriousness of the choice we have to make, we can so express ourselves that people will rest assured that all members voted conscientiously. That is the important thing to do if we are to restore credibility in the minds of Canadians about the role of members of parliament.
It is current practice for bills introduced in the House, after being dealt with at the second reading stage, to be sent to a committee. Bill C-84 was sent to the justice and legal affairs committee but, unfortunately, I believe the purpose of that committee was distorted because I have always believed that the referral of a bill to a committee of the House aims at giving the public a chance to be heard, to present briefs, to express verbally their approval or disapproval of the bill.
Unfortunately I deplore the fact that the Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs proceeded so fast that it was not possible to call witnesses for or against capital punishment so that we might have had the widest consultation possible and be in a position to present amendments that would have made this bill better understood by the public.
Capital Punishment
Canadians could have hoped for the future of our country to have the best possible law and the closest to their expectations.
Mr. Speaker, I think that we depreciated the actual value of committees as the public has been deprived of that benefit. I know that the committee sat but it did so rapidly that it was impossible for the citizens concerned to come to Ottawa and make representations that would have surely been well received by every member of the committee as it is their role to entertain representations from the public.
I am sorry but I think that that kind of procedure is an attempt against democracy and, in the future, I am afraid that the public will not have too much confidence in those committees and that they will neglect to express their point of view in other circumstances.
Mr. Speaker, no need to say that my position has not changed because I am more convinced than ever that we should give to those responsible for the protection of the individual, the protection of our property and the public. I regret that the majority did not agree to offer that protection to which the public is entitled. I am afraid that henceforth the people will not have enough confidence in the protection we can give them and will take the law into their own hands. This would lead to a society of disorder, a society of violence. However, as I said last week, God knows we are well on the path of the society of violence that we accept as a normal evolution. We talk about evolution but what is it? We can have forward evolution but we can also have retrograde evolution. So the word evolution does not mean in our society that we are wiser than our fathers and our great-grandfathers. Fair enough, there must be evolution but if we really want that it be in the right direction, we should take measures to avoid the situations of violence, we should suppress all the causes that lead us to violence. Whether these causes are political, social or economic, as parliamentarians we have the duty to open our eyes, to be well aware of the glaring facts and to take the necessary measures so that there can be more justice in our country and so that we can prevent that idea from springing up in the minds of those who suffer from persecution before justice, I mean that of wanting to take the law into their own hands. Moreover, we should repress those criminals who have the regrettable tendency to attack their fellow-beings, even though they are deterred by the courageous attitude of society and by the parliaments which adopt laws to protect them against themselves.
I think that was our ancestors' aim; to provide that punishment for the criminals in the Criminal Code. We must protect society against those who have this tendency, against those who are prepared to go to any end to seize the property of others by violence, at the point of a gun.
Mr. Speaker, I think we could have found a form of execution for criminals without talking about hanging. I still hope it will be possible to find a humane way of applying death sentences, likely to make those who will be ayare of it understand that society is sorry for having to execute the guilty, to deprive him of the great gift of life, but doing so in a human way, society will understand that such action is prompted by a sense of duty, a spirit of justice and at the same time a respect for the great value of human life.
15276

July 13, 1976
Capital Punishment
Mr. Speaker, I shall conclude on these words, asking my colleagues to think again about the seriousness of the situation and to trust those who are responsible for administrating and enforcing our laws, for promoting as well the justice we are asking for. These people must have confidence in us. Within a few days, the Olympic Games will take place in Montreal. There will be 16,000 members of the Armed Forces, thousands of policemen who will risk their lives and will be the advanced guard; those people will be there to protect society against those who might wish to take advantage of the situation to cause trouble and disturbances or to take barbaric action. We rely on them to protect us, to ensure public protection. But for God's sake, tomorrow, let us give them the necessary tools to enable them to carry out their duty, which will hopefully prevent us from going through unpleasant events that would damage the reputation of our country, our province and the city of Montreal. Thus, policemen will be able to carry out their duty while feeling protected, and should potential murderers plan to do something, they would act very carefully to avoid being sentenced to death.
Mr. Speaker, let me tell you that I do not fear capital punishment at all because I do not intend to murder anyone. Now, if the present act is amended, capital punishment will apply only to those convicted of murder. With Bill C-84, all these provisions are removed, there will be life sentencing, and God knows how many life sentences, in the past, have been commuted to a few years in prison only. Then, life sentence is changed again; they speak of 15, 20 or 25 years. This is not even a life sentence, but a specified period in prison.
For all these reasons, Mr. Speaker, I will certainly vote against Bill C-84 on third reading and I hope that meanwhile, the government will review its position and introduce a better legislation.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to commend hon. members who spoke today and yesterday at this stage of the proceedings. I have been extraordinarily concerned with the turn of events in this particular debate. First of all, this bill was advanced, not because there was a demand by the government caucus, nor because there was a demand from the public, but merely as a cabinet relief bill. It was introduced merely to relieve the cabinet of a decision that it has assumed over the years, a practice which I have deprecated, placing itself in the position of the final court of appeal on capital sentences.
As a body, the cabinet is totally unsuited for that position. Nowhere else do we have questions of justice or legal decisions taken by a civil body as a final decision. This is a practice that grew up in the 1960s. Certainly it was the practice when the right hon. member for Prince Albert (Mr. Diefenbaker) was leader of the government. It is a practice that I protested then and during the years following under Mr. Pearson. We know there were political considerations in the determination of whether the sentence against this or that condemned person, whose rights had been fully protected by the courts all the way to the Supreme Court of Canada and in respect of whom the

courts had decreed the penalty according to law, should be exacted. There has been this 14 years of practice.
I can understand that the cabinet, having backed itself into a corner as a result of the illogical law of 1967-that is, the limitations on capital punishment at the time, renewed in 1972-is now facing some cases where it actually would have to carry out the law. As a result, the cabinet brought forward this bill under the guise of a free vote.
Yesterday, the hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe (Mr. Wagner), the hon. member for Temiscamingue (Mr. Caouette), and others in this House demonstrated-and I will not repeat the arguments-just how free the vote really was. This is the biggest hoax on the public in years and, goodness knows, there have been real hoaxes perpetrated on the public in the last few years. The very circumstances surrounding the introduction of the bill, under the principle of cabinet solidarity, ties up the cabinet. The cabinet had no free vote in this regard. There will be pious confidence that as a result of a free debate and a free vote, this House adopted on second reading the principle of abolition of capital punishment. I will speak about the second reading vote in a moment. The suggestion that there was a free vote is the laugh of the century.
Government supporters found themselves, for one reason or another, under various pressures-which were not applicable to members on this side of the House-in spite of the so-called right to exercise a free vote. I could even go to the extent of suggesting that the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton (Mr. Baker) was restricted in his role as Conservative House leader in negotiating certain aspects of this debate because members of the Conservative caucus said this was not a party position, and if there were to be arrangements made with regard to the debate they would be made between supporters and opponents of the bill. That was not apparent on the government side.
Yesterday, during discussion on a question of privilege, the hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe indicated quite conclusively that there were pressures put on certain members, as did the hon. member for Temiscamingue, and no one would dare controvert their positions.
It is now said by some pundits that parliament seems irrelevant to the public scene. Well, I do not agree with that, but certainly this debate can be used as an example. There is no public demand for the abolition of capital punishment. To the contrary. Those hon. members who are honest enough to speak about the reaction among their constituents, either through polls or otherwise, know that there is only a small fraction of the Canadian public which advocates the abolition of capital punishment. Therefore, this long debate on Bill C-84 is not as a result of public demand. The situation is to the contrary.
There is another point on which I should like to comment.


Oh, oh!


If junior hon. members of the House-


Oh, oh!
July 13, 1976


Notwithstanding what we say on either side of the House, Mr. Speaker, I resent the suggestion that there may be some inequality amoung members. We are all hon. members.


It is obvious that my words struck home in that I am taken back to the point which I started making, that certain people like to read many of the speeches that are made. I would say that usually when I refer to hon. junior members of the House, I mean to refer to inexperience. Other than that, we all stand equal.


Innuendo.


Order, please. I should like to point out to the hon. member that we are here to debate Bill C-84, and I suggest that he keep to the subject matter.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, it is the noisemakers who interrupted me. If they are to be permitted the opportunity to make irrelevant interruptions, I have the right to reply.


Shame.


We are all equal when it comes to irrelevancy.


They are also equal when it comes to conforming to the practices of the House so far as reading speeches is concerned. The point to which I wish to come back concerns the so-called principle of the bill. Some hon. members felt at some point in the report stage of this bill that if they were to support certain amendments they would be voting against what had been adopted as the principle of the bill. Nothing could be further from the truth.
It is a fact that in the preparation of the amendments to the rules, or the changes in the procedures in 1969, second reading ceased to be the adoption in principle of a bill. The rules that have been quoted in the House go back to British practice, which also predates changes in their rules. There is nothing like using wrong authorities to support a poor case, and that is what has happened. For instance, the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) put out in the debate that there had been adoption of the bill in principle. Occasionally these things are reported in the press and then someone keeps insisting that second reading is adoption in principle. But there is nothing in our rules, as they were changed, to say so.
Second reading is passage of a stage and reference to committee. How many times over the past seven years have bills been brought forward by the government which were controversial, but which were given second reading by the opposition with the reservation that certain amendments would be adopted. This is so the House can proceed to the next stage. Here, again, I should like to make reference to hon. members whose experience is relatively limited. Prior to the time I mentioned, if hon. members wish to go back to the debates they will see what happened when there was a total block on second reading because it
Capital Punishment
was deemed to be adoption in principle of the bill. But to get away from that, to make the proceedings more flexible, it was changed to mean reference to a committee.
We are now at the most important stage of the bill.


It is important all the way.


But the most important stage, if I may say so, is the stage after which there have been amendments. The minister in charge of Bill C-84 has accepted some amendments and there have been others put forward by members of the House and adopted by the House. Let us look at Bill C-83 to which some 60 amendments were made, if not more. It is the stage at which the House will vote on the bill and either accept or reject it. At that stage we see the embodiment of the law which will be applied in future to govern the actions of the Canadian public. It is not that which is there as a framework on second reading.
There is another point which I should like to make. I challenge the common belief that in an amending bill there is any other principle than that a certain law shall be amended. Bill C-84 contains many provisions which may indirectly have to do with changing the nature of the penalty, and it is merely a bill like others such as Bill C-83, a bill to amend the Criminal Code of Canada. Can anyone tell me that Bill C-83 is a gun control bill, when there are important sections in it dealing with wiretapping and other matters?
This is merely a bill to amend the Criminal Code. If there is to be a principle, it is merely that. The distinction must be made with, for instance, Bill C-79 which set up the whole framework of the Anti-Inflation Board. It started out with the title and proceeded in detail. This bill has no title. If there is a total bill, one can find the principle such as in Bill C-79. What was it? It was an act to create the Anti-Inflation Board and give it certain powers. That is not so with this particular bill. Therefore, I say that the debate on principle is at this stage, and that a vote at the report stage which is contrary in part to the vote at second reading stage is not a vote against the principle of a bill previously adopted by this House. To me it is a fallacious argument to say that on an amending bill there can be a vote against the principle of the bill. The only vote which would be against the principle of this bill would be one which would refuse to amend the Criminal Code.
This subject was brought forward, as I said, by way of a government bill. There recently came to my study a paper prepared by Sir David Stephens, the former Clerk of the House of Lords in Britain. It is available to the procedure committee, particularly to a subcommittee headed by the hon. member for Hamilton Mountain (Mr. MacFarlane). It deals with private members' initiatives and with private members' legislation. There are classic examples of how, in the British House, subjects which are highly arguable from a moral point of view-abortion, divorce, capital punishment, homosexuality, and some others-always come through a private member so that there is a true free vote. The government there recognizes that there is a very deep and fundamental difference among its supporters.

July 13, 1976
Capital Punishment
That is how this bill should have come forward. I am sure the government could have found any number of its supporters who would have been the proudest people on earth to act as sponsors of this bill, and possibly the seconder could even have come from somewhere in the opposition. But it would have been a private member's bill and then we would have a true free vote. However, there are other people in this House who decide how things shall be done.
All I can say is that this has been a grievous lost opportunity for actually giving private members in this House the opportunity of expressing themselves and voting according to how they see it, rather than merely being caught up in the party machinery, the caucus machinery and in some other areas where it is said there are powers which have even greater influence on a particular party and its members. I am quoting from a British document which refers to the Trade Union Council, The TUC, which in many instances has to be directly consulted by the British Labour Party and the Labour government in order to determine what legislation shall come forward and what shall be contained in the legislation. I hope we do not have that practice and that we will not turn back the clock in so far as the influence of the private member is concerned.
Rule changes are proposed for this House always under a banner of so-called efficiency. All they do is make it easier for the cabinet. All they do is hack away at the few remaining controls there are; and this is supposed to be a responsible government! Whatever powers there are of examination, of questioning and control of the cabinet by the House go out under the expediency of efficiency.
Then we get the pundits outside complaining about parliament. Parliament itself, under the influence of very overpowering cabinet power, has fashioned its own hair-shirt and has sown the seeds of its own destruction in many ways. To use another simile, perhaps the way has been prepared for the charge that parliament is irrelevant because what is the point of discussion? Government backbenchers sit impatiently because they are precluded from participating in debate-and I have sat on the government side-because cabinet ministers want their legislation to go forward. People are asked blindly to support legislation, not to criticize publicly and not to rock the boat. But that is not parliament. I must say that in this particular debate I was glad to see some hon. members on the government side break those chains and speak independently with regard to this bill.
I and many hon. members have made reference to public opinion. To be subjective, this past weekend I was in Edmonton. I must say that I would not dare put down in Hansard, for fear of offending some souls, the nature of the language of the criticism of this bill and of the government which was expressed to me. Only one person, a lady friend of our family, called me and said she was glad that the vote went as it did. I expected that; I have known her as a lifelong abolitionist. I respect her opinion; but she is one of few, and her rights were not being trampled on. Certainly, the government, in insisting on going forward with this bill, is flying in the face of public opinion.
With regard to an entirely different subject, I was rather amused last Thursday when the Prime Minister tried to justify the incomprehensible stand of the government on

Taiwan within the context of the Olympics. He asserted to the right hon. member for Prince Albert that because the government felt there was a strong majority of the people of Canada supporting its "one China" policy, it was correct in going forward as it was regarding Taiwan and the Olympic controversy. The government said, "Public opinion is with us, and therefore we are right". But what about this particular bill, Mr. Speaker? Public opinion is against the government so if the other argument was correct, this one is equally correct and the government is wrong. If in one case public opinion is used as an argument in support of the government's position, then the government must, logically, rely upon public opinion with regard to this matter.
There cannot be a law for one's friends and a law for one's foes.


There is only one China.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member misunderstood my argument. The argument was used that strong public opinion supports the government. If the hon. member will bide his time-


Order, please. The hon. member on a point of order.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. I am a retentionist and I appreciate the speech the hon. member is making. With regard to the policy on China, the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) has said many times that we recognize only one China, so let us not mix the cards here.


Order, please. This is not a point of order; it is an argument which can be made at another time.


I will start back at square one, Mr. Speaker. The question is whether there shall be reliance upon public opinion to justify the government's stand. On Friday last the Prime Minister used the support of public opinion to buttress his case with regard to Taiwan in the Olympic context. To be logical, the government must have regard to public opinion on Bill C-84; but in this particular case public opinion is to be disregarded.
We have seen the reaction of the police and prison guards to this bill, Mr. Speaker. I do not want to have recourse to, nor would I repeat the worst threats that have been made. I think policemen and prison guards are reasonable people and they have a very difficult job.


Hear, hear!


They have been doing a very difficult job with a law that specifically singled them out for protection, but in effect the law was set aside. Now there is being substituted a longer penalty of 25 years'
July 13, 1976

imprisonment. We are saying to the prison guard that the only way we are going to protect him from being fatally attacked by prisoners is to keep them under his care for many more years. We are going to incarcerate murderers longer, and if they kill one, two, three, four-


They can kill one very day, if they want to.


-all they will get is 25 years. There is nothing to lose.


Fifteen years.


Then there is the question of parole. I do not suppose anybody who killed a second time or killed in a prison would get much sympathy with respect to parole. But it is ludicrous to think that long-term sentences of this kind will provide protection for prison guards. Society has a responsibility for the protection of fellow prisoners as well. The fact that a man is sentenced to jail, for whatever crime he may have been found guilty of, certainly is not to be taken to mean that he is being sentenced to exposure of being killed by someone within the prison system. In practice, one might be so cynical as to say that is what some of the abolitionists may hope. It is a very harsh form of attrition, but I honestly think that some people hope that will happen. What a penal system we would have if we were to substitute the lawful executioner and put in his place the unlawful executioner within the prison system!
As the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich (Mr. Munro) detailed the other day, many sections within the National Defence Act still provide for the death penalty. That act says that every person-not merely a serviceman or servicewoman-who commits an offence under certain sections is subject to the death penalty.
What about all the bleeding hearts in regard to the elimination of the death penalty by the cabinet and those who support them? Why were no amendments brought forward in this bill to remove those sections from the National Defence Act? It would have been very simple, if the principle had been to eliminate capital punishment. But certain sections of the Criminal Code are amended to change certain categories of crime, parole is arranged differently, and the death sentence is left in a very important statute of this country to cover certain circumstances. I suppose it would be ironical to say it would be rather strange to see an event happen within the next few months which would bring the perpetrator of a certain crime under those provisions of the National Defence Act. That would be a really interesting situation.
As I said on second reading, the burden of proving that the change is for the better is on those who advocate support for this bill. It is not up to the so-called retention-ists to prove their case; it is for the abolitionists to prove it. I will not go so far as to say that they must prove their case beyond any reasonable doubt, but it is their responsibility to prove that the abolition of capital punishment will be a change for the better and that our system of justice and protection of the public will be improved. I submit that the arguments put forward by the supporters of this bill are
Capital Punishment
inadequate. They have not proved their case. They have failed to discharge the burden put upon them by logical debate. For this reason, any in this House who doubt that