Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43 I ask leave to propose a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity which is fully expressed in the motion and affects the foundations of public life in this country.
I would therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Edmonton Centre (Mr. Paproski):
That the committee of the privy council, by order, instruct the Chief Justice of Canada to appoint three justices from among the justices of the provincial superior courts, the Federal Court of Canada, and the Supreme Court of Canada, who shall be constituted by the committee of the privy council to be commissioners under Part I of the Inquiries Act to inquire fully into any allegations, made or to be made, about any improper inducements having been offered to or improper pressures having been brought to bear in respect of a civil or criminal judicial or quasi-judicial proceeding, instituted or likely to be instituted, to the disturbance of the peace, order and good government of Canada, and in particular but without limiting the generality of the foregoing into the incidents resulting in the letter dated March 10, 1976, of the honourable the Chief Justice of the Superior Court of Quebec, tabled in this House and printed as Appendix "B" to the official report of the House of Commons Debates of March 12, 1976, and any matter bearing upon or related to those incidents, and if the said commissioners consider that there is prima facie evidence of an offence in relation to any matter inquired into, to consider such other matters as may appear to the commissioners to be relevant and to report fully thereon.


Order, please. Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43 such motion would require unanimous consent of the House prior to presentation. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I ask the unanimous consent of the House to introduce a motion dealing with an important matter of pressing necessity.
Considering that Mr. Justice Mackay made an unjustifiable indiscretion by giving his personal friend Special Attorney Richard Holden a copy of his correspondence
with the Minister of Justice; considering that Richard Holden submitted this letter to the press with the agreement of Mr. Justice Mackay, with the intention-and I apologize for the expression but it is accurate-of "giving shit to the government", to quote the words of Mr. Holden as reported in Maclean's; considering the fact that Mr. Justice Hugessen, Mr. Justice Mackay and Special Attorney Holden are all part of the "Anglo-Saxon judicial establishment of Montreal", I move, seconded by the hon. member for Rimouski (Mr. Allard):
That this House appoint a royal commission to determine whether the "Anglo-Saxon judicial establishment of Montreal" did not conspire indeed to harass a French-Canadian minister who did not hesitate to attack the well-to-do and the trusts.


Order, please. The House has heard the terms of the motion of the hon. member. Under the provisions of Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There is not unanimous consent; the motion therefore cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under Standing Order No. 43. My motion is prompted by the reports today that the question of allowing Canmar Ltd. to commence an offshore drilling program in the Beaufort Sea is being considered by the cabinet today. If true, this suggests that the government is prepared to go ahead with a maximum of haste and a minimum of consultation. Therefore I move, seconded by the hon. member for Kingston and the Islands (Miss MacDonald):
That this House urges the cabinet to consult those Indian and Inuit Canadians who live in the vicinity of the Beaufort Sea before authorizing the proposed offshore drilling program in the Beaufort Sea planned for this summer.


Order, please. Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

March 18, 1976
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of extreme importance. It is somewhat similar to the motion just put. In view of the report today that cabinet is about to make its decision on drilling permits in the Beaufort Sea, and in view of the fact that United States authorities and officials in the Department of the Environment continue to express opposition, I move, seconded by the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Leggatt):
That this decision be delayed until proper environmental safeguards are established and adequate consultation with citizens of the north is accomplished.


Such a motion pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43 would require the unanimous consent of the House before presentation. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Public Works. On Tuesday, at page 11825 of Hansard, the Minister of Public Works denied that he felt the contempt of court proceeding might involve a ganging up of the English-speaking establishment against French speaking ministers and he appeared to say that he knew of no instance, either in the press or elsewhere, when that possibility was raised. Does the minister deny the allegation, and I would like a specific answer to this, of Mr. Justice Hugessen that, and I quote:
The view which Mr. Drury felt was being expressed in some quarters in Ottawa that the proceedings against Mr. Ouellet were in some way a ganging-up of the English-speaking Establishment against prominently placed French speaking persons.
If the minister does deny the judge's statement, will he tell this House specifically what he did say to the judge?
Hon. C. M. D^ury (Minister of Public Works): Mr. Speaker, I am not denying the allegation of the judge. I did say in the House the other day, and I am prepared to repeat it, that I am not aware of any press reports or other similar published reports of any such ganging up. I, myself, do not believe that there is or indeed, in any circumstances I can envisage, that there would be such a ganging up by the courts of Quebec against any particular section of the community. The reference which Mr. Justice Hugessen made in his letter to the Chief Justice was, I think, merely an expression, and what I was seeking was his confirma-

tion of my belief, in a sense, in his belief; I was persuaded that Judge Hugessen would pay no account to such a rumour, nor did he believe in it, nor did I; I was merely seeking his personal assurance that my belief in his belief was correct.
[DOT]	(1410)


We shall want to take a careful look at the record of that.
I should like to ask the Minister of Public Works, bearing in mind that Mr. Justice Hugessen used the phrase, when he referred to the suggestion about the ganging up, that that impression seemed to be held in "some quarters in Ottawa", whether he accepts the paraphrasing of his conversation with the judge to the effect that there was a reference to "some quarters in Ottawa", and if he does accept that, will he tell us exactly what he did say and to what quarters in Ottawa and to what people he referred in his conversation with the judge?


The phrase used by Mr. Justice Hugessen, "some quarters" was about as precise as I was. As I indicated to him, I was not aware of any newspaper stories to this effect; these were merely, as far as I was concerned, baseless rumours and when one is talking about baseless rumours it is difficult to be precise.


The full reference in Mr. Justice Hugessen's words was not just "some quarters", but "some quarters in Ottawa" and presumably the minister would be more in touch with those quarters in Ottawa than the judge would. Could the minister tell us from which quarters in Ottawa the rumour to which he referred in his conversation came to his attention? Who were the people who were the source of the rumour in Ottawa he discussed with the judge?


I did, I think, employ the term "baseless" in respect to my own concept of them and it is difficult to ascribe a precise source to baseless rumours.


Was the minister referring to information or rumours or facts he had heard circulated by any minister of the Crown or by any senior official of the government? Will the minister tell the House, now, who those people
were?


I have said I thought they were baseless rumours. I cannot ascribe their source to any particular individual, or, indeed, to any class of individual. Secondly, I cannot answer in the precise way the hon. gentleman is seeking or give him the kind of answer that I think he wants; and I think it would be slanderous of me to try to ascribe the source to any particular group of people.
[DOT]	(1420)


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the Minister of Public Works. As reported at page 11825 of Hansard for Tuesday last, the minister accepted Mr. Justice Hugessen's impression that the Minister was attempting to head off a possible confrontation with the executive. I assume that there must have been some concrete reasons for those fears. Who
March 18, 1976

within or outside the cabinet suggested that this case could lead to a confrontation between the executive and judicial branches of government?


Mr. Speaker, I should tell the hon. gentleman that there was a current contempt of court proceeding that was initiated on behalf of the judiciary against a member of the administration, and this appeared to me to have the appearance at least of a confrontation between these two branches of government.


A final supplementary question for the minister, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister telling the House that the suggestion made by him to Mr. Justice Hugessen that there might be a confrontation was completely his suggestion without any discussion with or suggestions from anybody else, either in the cabinet or outside the cabinet?


No, Mr. Speaker, I am not suggesting that at all and it would be false to do so. I consulted a number of other people. As I said in the House, I accept full responsibility for this and I am not going to try to put the blame on the shoulders of somebody else.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice and it pertains to an allegation that seems to have been missed so far, if you can believe that, in the questions raised in connection with this matter. I refer to an allegation made by Judge Mackay that the hon. member for Papineau was interfering with the course of justice in the first trial involving the sugar companies. I should like to read a section of the letter sent to the Minister of Justice in order to clarify the point, and I would then ask him for his response. In the original letter to the Minister of Justice dated February 9, Justice Mackay has this to say:
I might add that had your agent, Mr. Pateras, not been a friend and former partner of Mr. Ouellet, I would have appointed him and expected him to act in this matter and I have no doubt that his account would have been paid just as were his charges for writing Mr. Ouellet on my behalf during the course of the trial and warning him to refrain from interfering with the course of justice-
I should like to ask the minister whether he would take steps to table that letter from Justice Mackay to the hon. member for Papineau so we can see what allegation of interference is in the letter. Secondly, would the minister tell us what was his reply specifically to that point and what action he took?


Mr. Speaker, I do not believe I have the letter. I have not seen it. I will determine whether Crown counsel in the case has the letter. Just to make it perfectly clear, I do not have a transcript of the trial in front of me so therefore I am paraphrasing the expressions used, but in the course of the trial the judge took exception to some words used in a speech by the then Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. He asked Crown counsel in the case to write to the minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and bring this to his attention. That I understand was done, and that action satisfied the judge in the case at that time.
Oral Questions
It was raised in the letter to me as an argument that because Crown counsel had acted in the instance the hon. leader raises, that this Crown counsel should also have acted in the contempt proceedings which followed the trial. Of course, my position was very clear, that once the trial was over the proper procedure for the judge in a contempt proceeding was, as outlined in the United Fishermen and Allied Workers' case, to ask the Attorney General of the province to appoint counsel as a friend of the court in the contempt proceedings.


Mr. Speaker, my understanding from the minister is clearly that he said he had not seen the letter that Judge Mackay refers to written by Mr. Pateras, which contains allegations of interference by Mr. Ouellet, so the minister is simply assuming that the allegations refer to a speech made outside the court. The minister is nodding to that. So that we may be perfectly clear as to the allegations in mind here, will the minister take steps to speak to the hon. member for Papineau to obtain a copy of that letter and table it so we can see clearly what Mr. Pateras had in mind in terms of what he regarded as interference?


No, no.


I do not want to accept the hypothesis upon which the question is based. The letter was written, as I understand it, and I was going on information and belief and not on conjecture, by Crown counsel in the case who was, of course, acting for me. I will ask him if he has a copy of that letter and see whether it is proper to table it.


For my final supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, I should like to go back to the Minister of Public Works. I would ask him, since the former Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs submitted his resignation to the Prime Minister on totally specious grounds, yet it was accepted, will the minister reconsider his position, resubmit his resignation and urge the Prime Minister to accept it?


Oh, oh!


Right on.


Order, please. With due respect, that is a question that has been dealt with previously.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Prime Minister.
Since it becomes increasingly obvious in the deadlock brought on by the "judges affair" that Mr. Justice Mackay interfered with administrative authorities, does the Prime Minister intend to establish a royal commission of inquiry to determine whether the Anglo-Saxon judicial establish-

March 18, 1976
Oral Questions
merit of Montreal has not really conspired to harass a French-Canadian minister who did not hesitate to denounce trusts?


Mr. Speaker, if the premise of the question were founded, I assume the way to institute such an inquiry would be to refer the matter to the council of judges which is competent to look into the conduct of judges. I said "if the premise were founded," but the fact that this premise appears in a question asked here in this House seems to answer in part the question asked by the leader of the Progressive Conservatives in connection with the existence of rumours.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question.
Could the Prime Minister tell us whether in his own view there would be grounds for an inquiry into the allegations of Judge Mackay?


Mr. Speaker, as I wanted to indicate, the answer to that question cannot be given by the government. If there is an allegation of illegal or improper conduct against a judge, it does not rest with the government to make an investigation in the matter, but rather with the council of the magistrate, primarily with the chief justice of the court involved. The only proper way to answer that question would be to initiate impeachment procedures, that is accuse a judge at the bar of the House, and the government does not intend to proceed in such a way.


Order, please. Before carrying on with the question period I know hon. members would want to join with me in calling attention to the presence in our galleries at this moment of a very important visitor, a Canadian but an important visitor to the House of Commons just the same, in the person of Kevin Collins from Orillia. He is not probably known under that identity but he is the "Timmy" for the Easter Seal Campaign for 1976.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister.

In refusing the resignation of the Minister of Public Works, the Prime Minister said he sympathized with his good intentions. In reaching that conclusion I assume the Prime Minister went into some detail about the question of intent, and that involved the conversation with the former Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Before his decision on Friday afternoon regarding the Minister of Public Works, did the Prime Minister not closely question both ministers on that conversation and if so would he give the details with particular reference to the intent of the former Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs?


Yes, Mr. Speaker; I did satisfy myself on that aspect of it. I think it is fair to say from Justice Hugessen's report to the Chief Justice that he also was satisfied that the intentions were good and honourable. On that basis I felt I was justified in accepting the intentions of the minister, as understood by me and by the Associate Chief Justice himself.


Mr. Speaker, we have heard the Minister of Public Works on several occasions state that he accepts full responsibility. Of course, that begs the question because we do not know who had been told to approach the judge in the first instance. The Prime Minister indicated he had a conversation with both his ministers. Would he now advise the House whether he concluded it was the idea of the Minister of Public Works to approach the judge, the idea of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs to approach the judge, or was it a joint exercise in which the Minister of Public Works was to carry out the execution of the intent regarding approaching the judge?


Well, Mr. Speaker, apart from referring the hon. member to the record, the only thing I can add is that one minister said that he made a suggestion to the other. The other said he took the responsibility for phoning the judge-took it on his own. I do not know what the hon. member would want me to say beyond that, except perhaps I do not think the Minister of Public Works would have taken an order from any minister, particularly a junior minister, to do something he did not think was proper for hi a to do at that time.


Mr. Speaker, I assume that this was a joint venture on the part of the Minister of Public Works and the former Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs in which the Minister of Public Works was to carry out the intent which was to approach the judge.


Well, Mr. Speaker, the member can describe it as a joint venture if he wishes.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct my question to the Minister of State (Fisheries), but in his absence I shall ask the Minister of the Environment and Minister of Fisheries or his parliamentary secretary.
March 18, 1976

Has the minister or his officials now any control over the members of the Greenpeace Foundation or other characters of the same kind who are at present engaged in illegal interference, this time on the ice of the Atlantic and the Gulf of St. Lawrence where the seal hunt is taking place?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot speak on behalf of the Minister of Fisheries since he is the one who has dealt with this matter, and in a most particular way. I think he will be here within a few days. When he arrives in the House early next week, I shall ask him to answer the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker,
I was rather interested in the answer given by the Prime Minister to the hon. member for Hamilton West. Yesterday, as recorded at page 11866 of Hansard the Prime Minister, referring to the time before Justice Deschenes' letter, said that he had the version of both the Minister of Public Works and the former Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and, according to both versions, there had not only been no illegality; there had been no impropriety. Maybe the Prime Minister would clarify this without equivocation. Had he been told by either minister that the call was on the request of the former Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and that it was intended to explore how the matter could be settled and to report the possibility of a confrontation, and if so, when was he told that? Was it before the Monday he refers to when he had them in or was it after the Monday?


The first answer, Mr. Speaker, is no. The second answer is: not applicable.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, we continue to be stonewalled in respect of information. Maybe I could put this question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Speaker, I would have thought some of those members would want the Prime Minister to hear so that he could answer. It is up to them. Since the Associate Chief Justice got the impression that the minister was trying to head off a confrontation with the court, does the Prime Minister recognize that not only was the call itself inappropriate but the substance of the conversation with regard to the executive and its perception of the proceedings could have been influential and intimidating?


Mr. Speaker, the question seems hypothetical. Could it have been such? The answer is, I suppose it could but in the opinion of the judge it was not.


Well, let me put it this way, Mr. Speaker. From the version of both ministers does the Prime
Oral Questions
Minister now take it that it was influential and intimidating?


Well, Mr. Speaker, I really must repeat a little of what I said on Tuesday on the nature of the proceedings. This is not an instance where the Crown, in a criminal proceeding, is indicting or committing another person to answer for an offence. This is a case where the court itself finds it is aggrieved and as the aggrieved party charges another person with a criminal offence. In such cases the time honoured way of purging that offence, alleged or real, is to get an apology through the courts. What was attempted by the Minister of Public Works was to see if that apology could be forthcoming in a way which would purge the offence. There is nothing illegal in this. It was found improper and for that reason I do not condone the actions, but I wish the hon. member would get back to the origin of this. It is one individual against another, one party which feels aggrieved and the other party which either directly or indirectly wished to say: "I want to apologize; what kind of apology do you want"? Do not forget the origin of this before trying to-


Hear, hear!
3k *	*


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs, to whom I have given notice of my question.
Following a telephone call on Tuesday with the vicepresident of the Executive of the City of Montreal, I have learned that 50 per cent of the subsidies granted to nonprofit-making corporations are contributed by the federal government, and 25 per cent by municipalities. It seems that the 25 per cent share contributed by Quebec would not presently be granted to those groups, since the agreements between the province and the federal government are not yet settled. Could the Minister tell the House when he intends to sign this agreement in order that those groups may get 100 per cent of those subsidies rather than 75 per cent?


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hon. member for his notice because I can now clarify an answer to a question, I believe, posed last week or recently, which I misunderstood. In so far as the arrangement with Quebec and Montreal is concerned, this does not apply to non-profit housing. Non-profit housing rehabilitation subsidies are available regardless of locality as long as it is a non-profit operation, so that they need not be in those areas designated under the special arrangement that has been worked out for the city of Montreal.
While I am on my feet, I might mention also that the rehabilitation loan limits have been increased from $5,000

March 18, 1976
Oral Questions
to $10,000 per unit, and the forgiveness of grant portion has been increased from $2,500 to $3,750.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the President of the Treasury Board. Bearing in mind that roughly a year has passed since the issue of the report of the Independent Review Committee, will the minister indicate the extent of progress on a new act governing the functioning and responsibilities of the Auditor General, and when we may expect to see this new act brought before the House?


Mr. Speaker, we are through considering the report in Cabinet. We have made the decisions pursuant to this report, and the legislation is now being prepared by the Department of Justice; as soon as the legislation will be ready, we will be able to proceed, but I am afraid that it will take a few more months.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Defence and it arises out of the serious loss of some five ships and two men in the present herring fishing season on the Pacific coast, some 14 men last year, and the Soper report shows that the Atlantic losses are equally disturbing. In view of the fact that most of the rescue operation, particularly at night, has been carried on through the generosity and co-operation of our neighbour to the south, how soon will it be possible to have equipment so that rescue operations can be carried on at night so that we will not have these sad losses of men and ships?


Mr. Speaker, of course we do have the equipment; we have three helicopters and three Buffalo aircraft stationed at Comox. We also have a Ministry of Transport helicopter further north and we have the support of our operational aircraft in the area. We have a reciprocal arrangement with the United States on both coasts. We tend to assist the U.S. more on the east coast; they assist us more on the west coast. I should point out also that Maritime rescue is the responsibility of the Department of Transport. The Department of National Defence does not have a Maritime rescue capability but we have a very effective air-search capability.


While the minister says that we have some equipment, I am sure he is also aware of the fact that our equipment is not

operational at night, and unfortunately storms do not confine themselves to daylight hours. Does the Department of National Defence intend to equip helicopters with night lights and with equipment so that sea-rescue operations can be carried out during the night hours, because if the minister will not do that, the equipment is simply for daylight operations and at present there is a good deal of resentment about the fact that we have to depend on the generosity of the Americans to look after men wrecked at sea?


It is not correct that we only have a day time capability. Our equipment is capable of night search, but I admit it is not as effective as the equipment that is being used at present on the west coast by the Americans.


I have a supplementary question for the Minister of National Defence. In view of the fact that his department has the co-ordinating responsibility for search and rescue and landings at sea and hence has a supervisory role over the Canadian coastguard, and in view of the seemingly ineffective capability of the co-ordinating centre in Halifax to respond promptly, may I ask the minister whether he is now considering, in light of the recent tragedies we have had in Newfoundland, deployment of search and rescue aircraft in Newfoundland and placing the search and rescue co-ordination centre in Halifax on a full 24 hour operational capability.


I think that the answer to that was demonstrated in the last few days when the Cape Freels was lost due to a fire at one o'clock in the morning and all 27 personnel were saved by search and rescue carried out by the Canadian armed forces and Department of Transport personnel.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Defence and is premised on the understanding that we now have a final report with respect to base consolidation and base closure. Could he indicate to the House how many bases are on that list, either with respect to closure or consolidation?


No, Mr. Speaker, I will be taking the report to cabinet shortly.


I wonder if the minister could indicate, relative to the questions asked by two previous speakers this afternoon, whether or not the consolidation of closure of bases will affect in any way, in the sense of deteriorating or running down further, our capability for good search and rescue on both coasts?
March 18, 1976


No, Mr. Speaker, we will be maintaining and in fact improving our search and rescue capability.


Mr. Speaker-


Hear, hear!


-I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Justice. In light of what may well be a difficult year for peace and security in some parts of Canada, would it be correct to assume that after the peace and security legislation passes this House the Minister of Justice will be putting before the House legislation dealing with the Emergency Powers Act or something along that line?


I think this is probably one of those rare occasions when I can speak on behalf of the Leader of the Opposition and welcome the hon. member back.


Cheap shot!


Where have you been?


Mr. Speaker, I am delighted with the premise of the hon. member's question that the peace and security measures will be passed by the House and, I hope, get into committee as quickly as possible so that they could be dealt with in detail there.
With regard to the latter part of the hon. member's question, I think that the answers we have given in the past stand and that is that the matter is being considered.


Mr. Speaker, the answer of the minister that the answers in the past stand is not a very clarifying answer. Would it be logical to assume that, in anticipation of events to take place later this year, there will be an act with regard to foreign police services being allowed to operate in this country? Would that be logical or could the minister answer that?


Mr. Speaker, I would not want to speculate on that. As we have said in the past we are working on measures and have been for some time. I would not want to speculate on when they would be introduced nor would I want the hon. member to speculate.


Mr. Speaker, my question for the Postmaster General concerns the termination procedures in effect for post office employees. It stems
Oral Questions
from a termination in Vancouver which took place on December 19, 1975. I should like to quote from a letter I received from the personnel manager of the B.C. and Yukon Postal District in Vancouver which says-


Order, please. In all fairness I think the hon. member ought to try to make, as usual, the preamble as short as possible and put the question directly.


Mr. Speaker, the sentence I think I must quote in order make the question relevant is this:
Regretfully, service from our central pay office in Ottawa has deteriorated to such an extent that we can only guess his final pay will reach us about mid-March.
Does the Postmaster General think it just that his department should be allowed to force terminated employees to exist for three months without their final pay?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is, of course not. I should like, however, to analyse the whole letter, if the hon. member would be kind enough to send me a copy. The whole question of pay does not come under the Post Office but under the Department of Supply and Services.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question for the Postmaster General. Does the minister think it fair or just that the people in charge of rural delivery receive only 50 per cent of their pay when they have been dislocated by a strike over which they have no control?


Mr. Speaker, this has been the normal practice. In all strikes, legal or otherwise, there is a certain amount of unfairness but people know when they sign the contracts, specifically, the remuneration they will receive when strikes occur in the Post Office, so the method of determining remuneration in this case was precisely the same as in the last dozen or so strikes over the last four or five years.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources and is based on the fact that documents tabled in this House on February 19 indicate that there are 109 known or suspected radioactive sites in Canada which could result in radiation damage to people or property. Given the clear federal responsibility to protect Canadians from the consequences of nuclear accidents and to provide compensation for any damage related to nuclear facility operations, could the minister tell the House when the government intends to proclaim the Nuclear Liability Act which was passed by this parliament some six years ago?

March 18, 1976
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, the short answer is as soon as possible.


Oh, oh!


About six years or so.


I should like to add that I very much share the concern of the hon. member opposite. I am not at all satisfied with the pace of events with respect to negotiating the details with the private insurers. I am told it is a very technical question. I would invite the hon. member to attend the meeting of the standing committee this evening where there will be officials who can go into this matter in considerable detail.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Regarding the minister's comments with respect to insurance companies, am I to take it that it is now the policy of this government to wait until certain interest groups concerned with specific legislation have come to an arrangement with the government before any specific piece of legislation relating to that has been proclaimed by the government?


Mr. Speaker, there are certain things that have to be done before the act can be proclaimed. One of them is to ensure that insurance policies will cover the insurable risk and that is being negotiated.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Public Works. It arises out of the quite reasonable expression of his respect for the integrity and depth in the Associate Chief Justice Hugess-en of the Superior Court of Quebec. Would the minister please tell the House why he would bother a judge of the integrity which he has described, and which we accept, with what the minister has termed as baseless rumours? Why would he bother bringing that to a judge of this man's character?


Mr. Speaker, I think it is probably useful, and perhaps lends some colour, to denial of a rumour and a statement of lack of belief in a rumour for a person to have it directly from him if that is the case.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the answer which the minister has just given and certain answers given just a few moments ago in the course of the question period, do I take it from the minister that he is denying categorically that there was any discussion of this question of the ganging up on certain ministers in the cabinet and among the cabinet in a formal or informal way? Is he denying that?


Order, please. My recollection is that that precise question was put earlier this day. I would hear the

argument at three o'clock, but the question was put in specific terms by an hon. member earlier in this question period as to whether or not that matter was discussed. My recollection is that the minister answered, in fact. In any case, I could take an argument in a minute or two about that point.
The hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the President of the Privy Council. In view of the fact that dangerous offenders are loose in Vancouver and also in the riding of Calgary North, and the murder and the hostage taking that has become endemic in the cities of Canada, the violence that is everywhere in this nation, the movement of criminals and guns across this country as speedily and freely as airline pilots, when can we expect to get down to completing legislation to control dangerous offenders and guns in order to achieve peace and security for the people of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, this has been one of the concerns of the government.


Oh, oh!


We have tried to bring important legislation before the House from time to time recently with moderate success only. I hope we do better in the future.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of the Environment. It arises from the report today that the cabinet is about to make a decision on drilling permits for offshore drilling in the Beaufort Sea. On February 23, the minister indicated to the House that he was concerned that the technology was not sufficiently advanced for a permit. He indicated:
... if there should be a blow-out of some kind whether we have the facilities to really make a decent clean-up so that all the ecology is not destroyed.
Would the minister inform the House today whether he still has reservations on those very important matters that he raised in the House on February 23 or is he now satisfied that we can go ahead?


Clean up the cabinet first.


Mr. Speaker, I think I have expressed my concern about this situation. I still am concerned and as far as what is decided, it is up to cabinet to
March 18, 1976

make the decision, not me. If the hon. member wants to know if the permit has been granted, this comes under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question. The same report indicated that the United States authorities on the Alaskan slope were very concerned about the potential for pollution of their own shores in the Prudhoe Bay area. Would the minister advise if he has had representation or the government has had representation from the United States authorities expressing concern about the granting of these permits?


Mr. Speaker, I think that is the kind of question that should be put to the Secretary of State for External Affairs because that is the channel for such discussion.


Mr. Speaker, a question for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Can the minister confirm whether he and his cabinet colleagues have come to a decision on the proposed offshore drilling by Canmar Ltd. for this summer in the Beaufort Sea?


Mr. Speaker, the matter is still before cabinet for decision, so the decision has not yet been taken.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question. In view of the fact that Mr. Justice Berger recently has taken some evidence pertaining to offshore drilling in the Beaufort Sea, would the minister recommend to cabinet a request for an interim report on the subject from Mr. Justice Berger before cabinet makes its decision?


Mr. Speaker, I shall be happy to examine Mr. Justice Berger's records and take his information into account.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Perhaps the acting minister will answer. In the light of extremely disturbing reports coming out of Thailand regarding conditions in Cambodia and involving, apparently, a considerable slaughter of the populace, has
Oral Questions
the Canadian government made any attempt to acquaint itself with the situation there?


Mr. Speaker, personally, I have not kept in close touch, but I am sure my department has. I shall try to ascertain the facts and get in touch with the hon. member.


['1.\tOf the total amount of money approved by the Newfoundland and Labrador Development Corporation, for each year (a) 1971-72 (b) 197273 (c) 1973-74 (d) 1974-75 (e) 1975-76, what was the (i) breakdown by industry classification (ii) percentage breakdown by industry (iii) number of individual projects (iv) distribution by electoral districts?\n2.\tFor the same years, by electoral district, how many (a) inquiries were received (b) applications were (i) approved (ii) rejected?\n\n3.\tWhat is the breakdown of operating costs of the Corporation for each year since its inception?\nReturn tabled.']
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. A few moments ago, at the end of the question period, I directed a question to the Minister of Public Works but Your Honour decided that the question has been asked before, and answered. The hon. member for Vancouver South asked a question about discussions. As I recall, his question concerned an apprehended confrontation between the judiciary and the executive branch of government. My question related specifically to the gang-ing-up previously referred to.
Paraphrasing my question, I asked the minister if he could deny categorically that the ganging up had been discussed formally or informally by members of the cabinet. The question related to the subsequent visit which the minister made to the court. I suggest, first, that that is not repetitious. Second, even if the question is repetitive, the Chair has ruled in the last ten days that the point to be considered is not so much on whether the question is repetitive but, rather, on the quality of the answer. It is important either to dispose of the question now or to obtain an answer, as the government insists upon not providing a proper vehicle for the kind of examination we deem necessary and which was the subject matter of my earlier motion today under Standing Order 43.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on the same point of order. I think the hon. gentleman is trying to discover who has been inspiring me. It may be unfair to suggest this, but I witnessed the fact that that was not his question. He was put up to it by somebody else. Perhaps that should not affect the quality of the question, and I do not think it does.


Oh, oh!


The same old arrogance.


Although the idea is somebody else's, he still gets credit for it.


Utter nonsense. Rubbish.


I am utterly appalled-


You should be.


-that the distinguished House leader of the Conservative party should expect to get information from a member of cabinet on the details of proceedings in cabinet.

March 18, 1976
Business of the House


Order, please. Once more, it is difficult to determine, not so much whether questions are repetitious of previous questions but whether they have been answered previously. The rule is difficult to enforce. For several days, we have heard questioning on the same subject. Perhaps the Chair might be forgiven on this occasion for thinking that the question has been answered.
In any event, in replying to the point of order the minister made a response. If the hon. member feels aggrieved, and if an examination of the record shows that his question was not dealt with by the minister on previous occasions, perhaps the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton will put the question again.


Mr. Speaker, although we have listened for a couple of weeks to repetitive questions, I was not able to catch the attention of the Chair. For the last two days I attempted to ask a question of great concern to my constituency and I repeatedly failed to gain Your Honour's attention. Since I was not able to ask my question, I shall put it on the record now-


Oh, oh!


You have caucus every other day.


Order, please. If the hon. member wants commiseration he might discuss the matter with three or four of his colleagues who are senior to him and tried to get the floor today, and with the entire caucus of the Creditiste party the members of which have been seeking to ask questions on other matters. The Chair has been through a difficult time these last few days in trying to focus on what is obviously an important subject, sometimes at the expense of hon. members who want to ask questions about other subjects.


Mr. Speaker-


Mr. Speaker, I heard with considerable interest what you have just told the Liberal member. It is bad enough that we should have been allowed only one question today without your using us to make the Liberals sit down.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. Today is Thursday.


How do you know?


Mr. Speaker, an hon. member asks how I know it is Thursday. Perhaps that is because it is the one question the government is prepared to answer. I want to raise the usual question concerning the business of the House. It is directed to the government House leader.


Mr. Speaker, I am glad for the confirmation that it is Thursday. I am a little confused, with all the argument that has been taking place in the House: it seems to me that today has been much the same as Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. If I may announce the business, this afternoon I hope we will complete consideration on second reading of Bill C-68. We will then continue, as I indicated, to begin debate on the anti-inflation bill. When that is disposed of, we will revert to Bill C-83. Tomorrow is an allotted day, and Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of next week are allotted days. The business announced should cover today and Monday.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the government House leader? Since it is now three full weeks since the welcome announcement of the Minister of Veterans Affairs concerning legislation respecting Canadian veterans who were prisoners of war-


Oh, oh!


-is it not now
possible for the minister to indicate on what day that bill will be on the order paper?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot be precise. I am happy to note the restored interest of the hon. member in the business of the House. I expect that the bill probably will be before the cabinet committee on legislation and House planning at the beginning of the week.


You are as slow as ever.


Ninth report of Standing Committee on Veterans Affairs-Mr. Boulanger.
Second report of Special Joint Committee of the Senate and of the House of Commons on the National Capital Region-Mr. Gauthier (Ottawa-Vanier) (for co-Chairman).
Sixth report of Standing Committee on Regional Development-Mr. Lumley.
[Editor's Note: For text of above reports, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]
March 18, 1976
for leave to introduce Bill S-31, to amend the Quarantine Act.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
It is my duty to inform the House that an objection signed by the hon. members for Lincoln (Mr. Andres), York South (Mrs. Appolloni), London East (Mr. Turner), Middlesex-London-Lambton (Mr. Condon), Kent-Essex (Mr. Daudlin), Bruce-Grey (Mr. Douglas), Wellington (Mr. Maine), London West (Mr. Buchanan), Hamilton East (Mr. Munro), and Niagara Falls (Mr. Young), has been filed with me pursuant to section 20 of the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, chapter E-2, RSC 1970, to the report of the Electoral Boundaries Commission for the province of Ontario.
If the House agrees, I would suggest we follow past practice and print the text of the objection as an appendix to this day's Votes and Proceedings. Is that agreed?


Agreed.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: 3,674, 3,845, 3,848 and 4,942.


1.	What is the total cost of construction of the new Place du Portage complex in Hull over the original estimates?
2.	What is the estimated cost of (a) site acquisition (b) architectural design (c) mechanical and electrical engineering services (d) foundation structure (e) landscaping and interior design and, in each case, what is the name of the firm who has been awarded the contract?
3.	(a) What was the purchase price of the site (b) from whom was it purchased (c) how was the decision reached as to the cost of the property?
4.	What is the estimated (a) annual operating cost of the building (b) total amount of useable floor space?


am informed by the Department of Public Works and
Order Paper Questions
National Capital Commission as follows: 1. Place du Portage-Phase I, $7,223,774; Place du Portage-Phase II, $4,668,615; Parking Garage-Former City Hall Site, $166,412.
2.	(a) Approximately $412,000, exclusive of purchase price reported under Part 3(a), covered legal, appraisal and other incidental expenses, (b) Phase I-$361,981, Daniel E. Lazosky; Phase II-$705,267, Daniel E. Lazosky; Parking Garage-Former City Hall Site, $95,500, Labrecque, Vezina and Associates, (c) Costs associated with this service are included in estimated cost shown for architectural design. The Standard Consultant Agreement provides for mechanical and electrical services which is part of the basic fee for prime consultants, therefore no detailed cost is available, (d) Phase I-$1,299,640-Thomas Fuller Construction (1958) Limited; Phase II-$1,871,006-Pitts Quebec Limited ($618,540) and V.K. Mason Construction Limited ($1,252,466). Parking Garage-Former City Hall Site-$3,266,838, V.K. Mason Construction Limited ($689,935), J.R.B. Construction ($65,779) and Thomas Fuller Construction Co. (1958) Limited ($2,511,124). (e) Landscaping: Insofar as landscaping costs are concerned, design and construction costs identified to date amount to about $2,575,000. Hough, Stansbury Associates, Toronto, has been awarded contracts for landscape design. Cramer Nursery, Ltd., Montreal, and Thomas Fuller Construction Co. (1958), Ltd., Ottawa, have been awarded contracts for landscape construction. Interior Design: Phase I-$219,-559-Daniel E. Lazosky; Phase II-$142,946-Forrest Bodrug; Parking Garage-Former City Hall Site-Nil.
3.	(a) $2,748,878.65. (b) The land assembly involved 20 individual owners, the City of Hull and a larger holding from Portage Inc. (c) Each individual property was appraised by independent appraisers establishing the current market value at the time, in accordance with the normal standards and procedures of the appraisal profession.
4. (a) Phase I-$375,333.; Phase II-$325,613.; Parking Garage-Former City Hall Site-$42,158. (b) Phase I- 328,438 square feet; Phase II-351,681 square feet; Parking Garage-Former City Hall Site-120,000 square feet.


With reference to the fishing secto