Mr. Speaker, under the terms of Standing Order 43 I rise to present a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. Since severe storm damage in Western Newfoundland has had disastrous effects on gear and boats of lobster fishermen, I move, seconded by the hon. member for St. John's West (Mr. Crosbie):
That this House orders that emergency measures be taken by the Minister of Fisheries to provide replacement assistance to lobster Fishermen affected by the limited season.


Under the terms of Standing Order 43 the motion can be presented only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


No!


The motion, therefore, cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the terms of Standing Order 43.
The commission report of Dean Finn of the University of British Columbia, established by the Minister of Labour to investigate health and safety in grain elevators on the B.C. waterfront following the death of five workers, was completed in October, 1976. The report has not yet been made public, but it details the fact that federal labour inspectors have failed to properly enforce existing laws and safety regulations. Whereas Dean Finn documents serious and hazardous working conditions in grain elevators not only in B.C., but across Canada, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That this House condemns the contravention of existing health and safety regulations, and the lack of enforcement by the Department of Labour, and urges the government to implement Dean Finn's recommendations.


The motion can be presented under the terms of Standing Order 43 only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there such consent?


No!


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
Further to the announcement made by the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Lalonde) on March 4 about hospital services provided for women, which include abortion on request, considering also that in the provision of such special services it seems to be agreed that the father has no responsibilities after conception, and that such measures are directly contrary to the opinion and convictions of the vast majority of Canadians, and that the 1969 amendment to the Criminal Code allowed for an overly wide interpretation of cases where the mother's health is threatened, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Villeneuve (Mr. Caouette):
That the House urge the Minister of Justice (Mr. Basford) to amend the Criminal Code to make the legislation on abortion more restrictive.


Order, please. The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, such motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

May 6, 1977
Abortion


Mr. Speaker, I wish to move a motion under Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the determination of President Carter to implement the use of solar energy in his public building program, and in view of the report entitled "Solar Home Heating in Canada-Why Not?", commissioned by the Department of Supply and Services, which points out that Canada has made only token gestures to promote solar power, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Saskatoon-Biggar (Mr. Hnatyshyn):
That the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources make a statement on motions advising what steps the government is taking to correct its lack of activity in promoting the use of solar power in Canada in government buildings and generally, and to correct its faltering and token energy conservation program.


The presentation of such a motion pursuant to Standing Order 43 can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I also rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 to move a motion of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of concern about this matter expressed by many Canadians, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Brandon-Souris (Mr. Dinsdale):
That the Minister of National Health and Welfare reassure the House and Canadians that the family planning centres to which he referred in his March 4 statement which will be providing information on abortion do not counsel in favour of abortion in order to promote abortion as a family planning technique.


Order, please. Pursuant to Standing Order 43 the presentation of such a motion can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to move a motion under Standing Order 43 regarding a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the use of Canada Manpower Offices as a hiring agency for strike-breakers in the dispute involving the secondary school teachers of Stormont, Dundas and Glengarry, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That this House urges the Minister of Manpower and Immigration immediately to stop the use of Canada Manpower Offices as a hiring agency for strike-breakers in the legal dispute between the secondary school teachers of Stormont, Dundas and Glengarry and the responsible school board of that area.


Order, please. Standing Order 43 requires that the presentation of such a motion for debate can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43, I seek the unanimous consent of the House to discuss a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
Considering that abortion on request amounts to nothing more or less than legalizing the murder and assassination of innocent children and that an organization in all Canadian provinces is now fighting very efficiently against abortion, thereby deserving our admiration and our support in their efforts to promote respect for life, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Roberval (Mr. Gauthier):
That the House congratulate the members and supporters of the Pro-Life movement who are now in the national capital to promote greater respect for human life, and encourage them to pursue their wonderful humanitarian activities.


The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.
May 6, 1977


Before commencing the Oral Question Period, may I say that I know hon. members will have noticed that this morning the mace was carried in the usual procession by the Assistant Deputy Sergeant-at-Arms, Mr. Albert St. Amour, who today is marking-I know hon. members would want to join me in also marking the occasion-41 years of public service, 36 years and six months of which have been in the service of the House of Commons. Indeed, it was exactly at that time 36 years and six months ago today that he was promised he could start the job here the next day. It will be exactly 36 years and six months on May 7, and on this occasion we are marking Mr. St. Amour's last day here. He is standing at the end of the Chamber, and I am sure all hon. members would want to wish him well.


Hear, hear!'


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Acting Prime Minister. Over the past weeks since the introduction of Bill No. 1 in the Quebec Assembly, we have had from ministers of this government a crescendo of veiled threats, innuendos and insinuations. We have heard the Minister of Supply and Services imply in committee this week that the passage of Bill No. 1 in its present form would mean a cutback in the federal presence in Quebec. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce have taken the same tack. This morning there are reports of a statement by the president of Via Rail who has indicated that he is reconsidering his plans to relocate in Montreal.
With respect, Mr. Speaker, I think it is time for the government to either fish or cut bait. I want to ask the Acting Prime Minister to tell the House clearly and unequivocally whether it is indeed this government's policy, in the event that Bill No. 1 passes unchanged, that it will put a ban on further federal expansion into the province of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, no, that decision has not been taken, nor could it have been taken on a speculative hypothesis. It is still the hope of the government that the bill, which is not yet law, will be modified in the course of the legislative process and that a more moderate approach will be adopted by the Quebec government with respect to this bill. My hon. friend will
Oral Questions
remember that some days ago the Prime Minister did express the view of the government generally on this bill. The view he expressed was to the effect that its primary purpose, which is to strengthen the French language in Quebec, was desirable; but it was regrettable that it impinged upon certain minority rights. That is the extent of the view I would like to express today in respect of that bill. Obviously, it is a very complex piece of legislation which is still before the National Assembly.
It may be that the government will be giving further views later.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the answer, but I would hope the Acting Prime Minister would instruct his cabinet colleagues as to what the policy of the government really is. Thus far the response from this government has been some trumpeting from the sidelines and nothing very constructive in terms of dealing with the government of the province of Quebec. I will ask the Acting Prime Minister, with respect to that point, whether the federal government, the ministers, or others are now involved in active discussions directly with the government of Quebec to ensure that the language rights, which the Acting Prime Minister spoke of embodied in the policies of bilingualism, which are the policies of this government, are being protected within the province of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister dealt with that question some time ago in response to a question by the Leader of the New Democratic Party. He expressed the view that at this point discussions were not taking place between the Prime Minister of Canada and the Premier of Quebec, and that at the moment it did not appear that such discussions would take place with respect to this bill.


Mr. Speaker, that is a very strange answer in view of what we face in this country. It seems to imply that the white paper and Bill No. 1 are hypothetical matters. I want to say that that bill is not hypothetical. There is a parliamentary commission preparing to meet in the province of Quebec. Those hearings are to begin very shortly. Since the precedent for the giving of provincial testimony before standing committees of this House on legislation which affects them is well established, the principle itself being well established, will the Acting Prime Minister tell the House if the government intends to make a statement to the parliamentary commission which will consider the impact of Quebec's Bill on the language rights of Canadians?


Mr. Speaker, no such action has been decided upon and one would have to consider whether such intervention by the federal government in the legislative processes of the province of Quebec would be productive in this particular case. Probably it could have the reverse effect.

May 6, 1977
Oral Questions INDIAN AFFAIRS


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a supplementary question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development? My question arises from statements made on behalf of the Cree and Inuit peoples that Bill 1, of the legislative assembly of the province of Quebec, is in direct conflict with Bill C-9, dealing with the James Bay Agreement, which was ratified a short time ago by this House. Has the minister obtained or requested a legal opinion on this issue?


Mr. Speaker, it is correct that the James Bay settlement gives the Cree and Inuit peoples the right to use their own languages as primary languages and English or French, according to their choice, as secondary languages. Whether Bill 1 contradicts the James Bay settlement is not yet clear.


But that is the question, surely.


Wait a minute. We are seeking advice on that subject.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Since a decision of the Privy Council some time ago settled that the minister, acting on behalf of the government, has constitutional responsibility for the Cree and Inuit peoples, will the minister undertake, before Bill C-9 is given royal assent and the other bill is taken to a stage beyond recall, that he will refer this matter to a court of competent jurisdiction, so that it can be decided what those rights are?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know if that will be necessary but I can assure this House that the federal government and my department will uphold the James Bay Agreement as written.


This government is paralyzed.


Mr. Speaker, will the government uphold those rights, if necessary, to the extent of challenging the provisions of Bill 1 which may contravene the provisions of Bill C-9?


The government is paralyzed.


Mr. Speaker, we will take all measures to make sure the James Bay Agreement is put into operation.


What about using the army?
[Mr. MacEachen.J


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Labour. Can the minister confirm that the Finn commission report, commissioned by him two years ago to investigate health and safety in west coast grain elevators following the death of five men in an October 1975 grain terminal fire, documents the failure of the federal labour department to enforce properly existing laws on health and safety regulations, particularly regarding grain dust and chemicals, and, if so, what is he doing to implement the recommendations of that report?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member's suggestion is totally erroneous. Without doubt what happened was severely tragic. Immediately after it happened we appointed Dr. Finn, of the University of British Columbia, to compile a detailed report. In the meantime we have acted throughout these proceedings, with the co-operation of Henry Kanes, the head of the local union, and management, to implement the highest possible standard and have issued directives along that line. Dr. Finn's group has been studying the matter. When the report is available we will do what we did in the case of the Cape Breton mines, issue new directives in accordance with the latest advanced technology, to make sure that tragedies of that kind never again occur.


I am sure the minister has read the report. He said here in the House on April 20: "we have also appointed a commission headed by Dr. Finn of UBC." He went on to say "he will make detailed technical recommendations very shortly." I would like to ask the minister whether he can confirm that he has now had the report since last October 7, and some of the unions have had it for five months. I understand the companies also saw it several months ago. Can he confirm that and, if so, why has he not released it since he has had it for so long? What is he trying to hide?


We do not have the final report. The hon. member may very well be dealing with the reports and findings of Dr. Finn. As he has progressed, naturally he has made his findings available to the parties who are co-operating with him to ensure the highest standards. As these findings and views are made known, it is in the interest of all parties and, I am sure, Dr. Finn's wish, that they receive them in a piecemeal fashion, so to say, so that action can be taken concurrently with the progress of the inquiry. We are not trying to hide the final document from anybody. In fact, the very method of procedure in this inquiry in letting the parties know about it is a negation of any unwarranted suggestions from the hon. member that we are trying to hide anything at all.
May 6, 1977


In view of all the
speculation in western Canada, when can we expect to see the final report, because people are really becoming concerned about it?
At the same time can the minister tell us, in view of the statement by the manager of the National Harbours Board elevator in Halifax, that health conditions there are also unacceptable, what action he will take to remedy that situation as well?
Hod. John C. Munro (Minister of Labour): I can let the
hon. member know of many of the findings of Dr. Finn's inquiry and of other studies we have commissioned or table in the House the extensive degree of work that has been done in this area which applies to grain elevators everywhere in Canada, in Thunder Bay, Halifax and other places, because they deal with some of the fundamental questions of health hazards for the men involved of grain dust of various kinds. It is a highly technical area. I hope the report will be applicable throughout the entire grain industry in terms of the protection of the men involved.

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Can the minister explain clearly to the House what he meant by his statement on March 4 last with regard to medical clinic care for women? In other words, does he intend to broaden the interpretation of the notion "endangering the mother's health" to achieve no more and no less than abortion on demand?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, has the minister read all the requests addressed to him in this regard, and specially that of the Pro-Life movement which is now holding a festival for life here in Ottawa, and what does he intend to do further to those requests?


Mr. Speaker, I replied to those requests saying that they seemed to be based on a misinterpretation of what I said. And once again, it is not a question of broadening the interpretation of the law as it now stands.
Oral Questions


I would like to ask the minister by way of a supplementary question whether he would clarify if it is his intention that the family planning centres to which he referred on March 4 will be counselling in favour of abortion as a family planning technique.
[ Translation]


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Acting Prime Minister. Yesterday evening the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce stated in the House that the recent appointment of the new chairman of AIB indicated that the program will not end by the end of 1977. Would the Acting Prime Minister indicate if this is government policy?


I think that the appointment of Mr. Renouf as chairman of the board is not to be interpreted as a presentiment of an early end of the controls program. The Minister of Finance has frequently stated that the controls program could end only if a firm understanding were reached as to the economic behaviour that would avoid any burst of inflation. So that is the position of the government.


A supplementary question to the Acting Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. The parliamentary secretary also said that controls will not end because the government cannot expect voluntary restraint, yet in the Financial Post of May 7 a front page article carries a report of the former AIB chairman, Jean-Luc Pepin which is particularly critical of the government for failing to spell out its position on voluntary restraint. It reports him as saying the government should have done this two weeks ago at its tri-partite meeting with big business and big labour. Would the Acting Prime Minister indicate if Mr. Pepin conveyed this view to the ministry before his resignation and if so, what answer did he receive?


Mr. Speaker, we are accustomed to receiving advice from many sources and frequently good advice from the former chairman of the Anti-Inflation Board. I am not directly aware of any such discussion, which would probably have taken place between the former chairman of the board and the Minister of Finance, but the general position of the

May 6, 1977
Oral Questions
government with respect to decontrols has been made clear frequently in the House, and I think is well understood.


Mr. Speaker, a final supplementary question. In the article in the Financial Post to which I have referred Mr. Pepin is quoted as saying:
The government is abdicating its responsibility to govern ...
And further:
What you have is the government saying to the CMA and the CLC: 'You make policy for Canada'. That's not acceptable in our democracy.
Would the Acting Prime Minister indicate if these were in fact the reasons why Mr. Pepin chose to resign as chairman of the AIB? In short, did he resign out of utter frustration at the lack of government policy?


Mr. Speaker, I am absolutely certain that is not the case.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Secretary of State which was the subject of a motion moved under Standing Order 43 by my colleague the hon. member for Okanagan-Kootenay a few days ago. I think this matter applies to any member of parliament. We are wondering whether it is within the wit and wisdom of the minister to devise some simple system for issuing citizenship certificates, particularly those needed for passports. I can assure the minister the present system is archaic and chaotic.


Mr. Speaker, we have experienced a virtual doubling of applications for citizenship. This was not entirely unforeseen as a result of the provisions in the new law which was recently proclaimed, though the flow of applications is above what we had expected. I am advised that within two or three months the backlog should be cleared up. Yesterday I signed a letter to go to all hon. members which I am not sure has been received by their offices as yet. It indicated the steps we are taking and asked for their co-operation, saying that I would particularly like to receive from them examples of hardship cases so that I could take steps to make sure they are dealt with promptly.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Would it be possible to have a better system for those citizenship certificates needed for passports? People cannot possibly wait three or four months for passport applications. One suggestion I would make is that there should be some liaison between the passport office and the citizenship office. At the

moment there is none; it is as if they are living in two separate countries.


Mr. Speaker, I will look into this suggestion and see whether there would be an effective way of improving liaison between passport offices and citizenship applications. I expect that is not the root of the blockage and it might not be possible to significantly ameliorate the situation through such an approach but I will investigate it.


Mr. Speaker, my question for the Minister of Transport arises from reports of negotiations between Pacific Western Airlines and Transair for the take-over of the latter company. Could the minister confirm or deny the reports and could he give an assurance that they will not further delay the implementation of the long-promised prairie regional air service?


Mr. Speaker, I have been aware for some time of the discussions which have been taking place in connection with the possible rearrangement of regional air carriers, including that to which the hon. member referred. I have not heard either formally or informally of any finality to the arrangement at this point. I cannot give any clear indication of the impact this would have on the prairie services application of Transair.


A further supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Could the minister at this time give a tentative date for the inauguration of service urgently needed for the economic development of that region?


Mr. Speaker, the difficulty with that is the procedures which must take place are in the hands of the Canadian Transport Commission, it is impossible for me to forecast the various steps they will take. I believe May 9 was the date they set for the final reply to interventions by the various applicants and after that time they were to outline the next steps to be taken before they reached a final decision on the applications.


Mr. Speaker, I too would like to address a question to the Minister of Transport on the proposed sale of Transair. Since Manitobans lost Air Canada maintenance facilities, an action which in the view of most Manitobans was unjustified, and in view of the possible sale of Transair whose headquarters are in Winnipeg, could the min-
May 6, 1977

Oral Questions AIR CANADA
ister assure the House that if the sale of Transair were to be approved by the Department of Transport and the Canadian Transport Commission, it would be based on the provision that the overhaul and maintenance facilities of Transair, presently located in Winnipeg where approximately 600 Manitobans are employed, would not be transferred from Winnipeg as was done with Air Canada with the approval of this government?


Mr. Speaker, the question was framed in a hypothetical way but I should like to tell the hon. member that this has not been hypothetical and that in all the discussions there has been a clear understanding that the maintenance base of Transair would be maintained at Winnipeg.


A final supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of the meeting of Western premiers in Brandon in which the view was clearly expressed that the maintenance facilities were to remain in Winnipeg, could I have the assurance of the minister and the government that if the sale were to take place, those maintenance facilities would remain in Winnipeg?


Mr. Speaker, I indicated the understanding that they would remain was clearly a part of all discussions. The question the hon. member asks me in a direct way is really not related to governmental administrative responsibility. The thing I would have to be satisfied about is the undertaking that would have to be made at the time the matter came before the CTC and the government.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Minister of Transport. In light of the fact that the international airport in Calgary serves the oil and gas companies and that the new depot was promised first by two former ministers of transport, Mr. Hees and Mr. Pickersgill and that there has been such a long delay with the result that the cost is now five times what it would have been originally, may I ask the minister if he has been able to negotiate with the seven commercial airlines that say they could not afford to pay the lease cost under the conditions set down by the minister and the department? Has there been a consummation of that agreement? We are just about to open the new depot, I understand, after these long years of frustration.


Mr. Speaker, the final meeting to agree upon the arrangements has not taken place to date or at least had not taken place when I inquired last week. I can tell the hon. member that as usual he has nothing at all to worry about. Everything will go very well and Calgary will be able to be very proud of what will be a very fine airport.


Mr. Speaker, I can understand why the minister grins; all of those in the front row are in the habit of using all this rhetoric. When the minister is looking into the other matter which I asked about and which he did not answer, I wonder if he would check why Air Canada has changed its air routes so that it only takes three and a half hours to fly from Calgary to Toronto, but to get any connection to this city you have to wait at least two and a half hours. Would the minister look into that and see why western Canada is discriminated against?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Revenue. Is the minister in a position to tell the House what decision she has made concerning the measures she will adopt to reduce the excessive tax deduction now being made in the case of public servants residing in Ottawa and being moved to Hull?
[Translation\


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately I cannot give any answer today to the hon. member, to his colleague from Ottawa Centre or to members opposite. But as soon as I get an answer-a positive one, I hope-I shall convey it to interested parties in the most diligent way.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture. The international sugar agreement negotiations started in Geneva, Switzerland on, I believe, April 18. Is Canada participating in these negotiations and what are our trading plans in the negotiations?


Mr. Speaker, we are participating in the program. One member asked me that question in the committee. We had our people here from Geneva to discuss the program. The government approved the program that could be used in negotiations. I will have to find out whether I have the right to inform the House and the hon. member. If so, in due course I will outline our program, what
5358

May 6, 1977
Oral Questions
we will be arguing for and what we will be making representations for at Geneva, on behalf of the sugar producers in Canada.
Mir. Murta: Mr. Speaker, the minister's answer is entirely too vague. He is too secretive. The United States plan for an international sugar agreement sets a minimum price of ten cents a pound and a maximum price of 20 cents a pound. This information is readily available in a good many United States agricultural publications. Will the minister outline the Canadian position vis-a-vis a minimum and maximum price? If the Americans can make their prices public, surely Canada can do the same. The minister should not be so defensive and secretive.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Americans have not made all of their program with regard to a sugar policy public. I imagine when they negotiate they keep some of it to themselves before they go into negotiations. As I said, I will check with my colleagues in government to see whether I have the right to make my position public and will do so at the first of the week if I am permitted to do that.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. It concerns the Mackenzie Valley pipeline. The Arctic Gas consortium has indicated several times in evidence before the National Energy Board that it would require government guarantees in order to raise the capital required for the Mackenzie Valley. On December 13 at the National Energy Board, the chairman and president of Arctic Gas told the board that as soon as the preliminary decision, which was the Judge Litt decision, was released from the Federal Power Commission in Washington that they would contact the United States and Canadian governments and negotiate vigorously on the question of guarantees, and that they hoped to be in a position to report back to the National Energy Board with details of those negotiations by the end of the hearings. It has been three months since the preliminary decision was released. Since the National Energy Board hearings will probably end next week, will the minister tell the House whether his department or any other to his knowledge has received formal or informal representations from Arctic Gas on this question and, if so, what is the state of those negotiations that are taking place on government guarantees?


Mr. Speaker, I indicated in the House on other occasions that there have been indications that the particular CAGPL application might require government guarantees. Those indications have been given to us by the officers of the corporation. To the best of my knowledge, there has not been

any formal request by the CAGPL consortium for government guarantees. As to the state of any negotiations between them and the National Energy Board, I am not in a position to provide any information at this time. However, I will be pleased to try to find out.


Mr. Speaker, in the last two weeks Arctic Gas has confirmed that it has started giving firm orders for major pieces of equipment, for example such things as steel and an Arctic ditcher. At the same time, there are indications that the government is preparing legislation with regard to the pipeline and to a pipeline authority. Can the minister indicate whether anyone is in the process of preparing legislation with regard to the Mackenzie Valley. Also, can he advise whether the consortium is now in the process of purchasing equipment for the Mackenzie Valley?


On the last point with respect to purchasing equipment, I have no knowledge of any plans or any contracts issued by the Mackenzie Valley CAGPL consortium. As to the second question whether anyone is doing any work on the preparation of legislation with respect to the Mackenzie Valley pipeline authority, it is fair to say that there may well be people who are trying to assess what kind of legislation might be necessary in the event that the government takes a decision in favour of either the Mackenzie Valley pipeline authority or the Alcan route. I am sure the hon. member understands that in the event a decision were made to go either route, there would likely be a number of matters upon which this parliament would have to legislate. In that sense, there may be some contingency work being done at the present time. Quite frankly, I have asked that it be done because I think it important that we do not become faced with a situation where a heck of a lot of work has to be done in a very short space of time. On a contingency basis, I would expect that work to go forward.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question of the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
Members of the Pro-Life movement now being in the national capital to assert their arguments in favour of greater respect for life, I would like to know if the minister expects to make any statement during the week in support of respect for life to show Canadians that his government is prepared to act to safeguard human life, particularly unborn children who have a special need for legal protection?
May 6, 1977


Mr. Speaker, the government has laid down very clearly its position on that matter on many occasions. I have made many statements about it in the House during the past years. Perhaps the only statement I would have to make today in the name of members of all parties-who will join me, 1 am sure-is to extend our heartfelt wishes to all Canadian mothers on the occasion of Mother's Day which we are about to celebrate all across Canada.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General. It arises out of answers he gave to the House yesterday in reply to my questions relating to recruitment by the RCMP of reporters to spy and snoop on their fellow reporters. The implication of the answer given by the Solicitor General yesterday was that Soviet correspondents in the Parliamentary Press Gallery were under surveillance. Is the minister now in a position to specify whether any or all of them are under surveillance? If so, has he given instructions to have their visas terminated or is this
Oral Questions
simply a fishing expedition the RCMP are entering into with regard to parliamentary reporting?


Mr. Speaker, I might point out to the hon. member that he has used the word "Soviet". In my answer in the House yesterday, I referred to the foreign press corps. Whenever there is evidence of illegal activity in this country by people who are here for other purposes, as the facts brought out over the past 12 months have indicated, the hon. member knows that appropriate action will be taken by this government.


I should like to direct my supplementary to the Secretary of State responsible for the CBC. Press stories in the Ottawa Citizen have indicated that the RCMP were approaching a prospective correspondent for the CBC in Moscow, one Denis Baxter. Since this will place a heavy onus on Mr. Baxter if and when he goes to Moscow, would the minister let the House know whether it is the practice of the CBC to have their correspondents act as information gatherers for the RCMP? Can he put the record straight so that Mr. Baxter will not be under any undue pressure when he is in Moscow.


Mr. Speaker, I know nothing of this question. I do think, however, that while the question may be within the bounds of parliamentary propriety, it is extraordinarily irresponsible for a member to make insinuations of that kind unless he has substantive evidence to bring forward, and, if he does, he should provide it to the proper authorities. I think the hon. member owes an apology to Mr. Baxter.


You did not see the news!


The Solicitor General indicated, when made aware of the approach, that this was not an unusual situation. The hon. gentleman's own colleague has confirmed the fact that this particular approach was made. The Secretary of State applies himself to matters related to the CBC, and I ask him to take it upon himself to find out what is happening within the CBC to protect the employees of that corporation.


I think the hon. member has misrepresented my colleague's statement and that he owes an apology to Mr. Baxter.


Perhaps I can clarify the matter, Mr. Speaker. At no point did I confirm that the RCMP approached Mr. Baxter. As a matter of fact, I am informed that the RCMP did not approach Mr. Baxter. But it is possible, if Mr. Baxter so desires, that he be given a briefing on protective security
80012-6OV2

May 6, 1977
Oral Questions
because of his posting to Moscow. The RCMP does not ask CBC correspondents to become information gatherers on their behalf. The responsibility of the RCMP as far as intelligence operations are concerned is limited to intelligence operations in Canada.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Is the minister in a position to tell the House whether he has intensified the investigation being carried out by the Fundy Tidal Power Review Committee with a view to the production of a final report on that committee's work before the end of 1977?


I am not in a position to give a precise answer to that question at the present time but 1 hope to be very shortly. Most of the work on phase one has been completed and an assessment is being made right now with respect to ongoing work which might be undertaken. I hope to be able to make a more complete statement within a few weeks.


Would the minister and his officials be willing to meet with an ad hoc committee of members of parliament from both the Commons and the other place to discuss all aspects of the work as far as Fundy power is concerned? This is a non-partisan committee composed of members representing maritime provinces.


I would be very pleased to consider any suggestions the hon. member might wish to make to me. I can tell him I have been meeting with my own colleagues from the maritime region on this important question and that they have been providing me with a lot of useful advice. So I have already set up the kind of committee he is talking about among my own colleagues.


I appreciate the minister's statement but I do not think a tidal power program for the maritime provinces is one which should be left to Liberal members of parliament only. Would he be willing to meet with all members from the region so that we might all have an appreciation of what the government intends to do in this regard?


Of course, I am prepared to meet with members of the House from whatever side on this issue. I have

been meeting with Tory representatives already. The Premier of New Brunswick is very much involved in this question and is supporting the idea in a financial way. Similarly, I have been meeting with the Premier of Nova Scotia who is also interested in this question. I am not sure the hon. member hasn't something reasonable to offer, and if he has I shall be glad to hear from him.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of National Revenue. Some weeks ago an interpretation bulletin was issued by the income tax division of the hon. lady's department relating to the treatment of employee benefits in connection with so-called interest-free or low-interest loans as a condition of employment. Changes were made without reference to parliament and in the absence of an order in council. My question is this: by what authority does the minister issue an interpretation bulletin which drastically alters the tax pattern of many thousands of people in this country? Would she explain precisely the reasons for this change and the basis on which it was made?
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, mine is an administration department which is usually very prudent and which is even accused sometimes of being unduly prudent and too much on its guard. Therefore I am particularly surprised by the innuendo of the hon. member and I am going to check immediately about this interpretation bulletin. They are published on a regular basis and I do not know what the hon. member is referring to.


Mr. Speaker, I am terribly sorry to see that the minister seems rather shocked because I ask her a question about the object of a public bulletin and about the changes which have occurred. I think, Mr. Speaker, that the minister should be aware of the change in policy mentioned in this interpretation bulletin and that, if necessary, she should ask her deputy minister to advise her more frequently about what is going on in her department.


Mr. Speaker, of course I work in very close co-operation with my officials, which is why I am surprised by the question of the hon. member, for he is very well aware of my department's responsibilities. I do not get to see all these interpretation bulletins because they are administrative instruments detailing and explaining laws and regulations passed by Parliament. We never initiate policy changes because that is the responsibility of my colleague the Minister of Finance. In order not to offend my hon. colleague, I shall indeed check into this matter before stating positively that no change of policies has occurred.
May 6, 1977


My question is for the Minister of Transport, Mr. Speaker, in his capacity as minister in charge of the Wheat Board. It arises out of the report issued by the Wheat Board related specifically to the wheat pool account. Can the hon. gentleman explain why administrative and general expenses in connection with the operations of this account increased by more than 50 per cent, from $68.6 million in 1974-75 to $103.8 million in 1975-76, while handling roughly the same amount of wheat? Since this cost will have a direct relationship to the final payment which was received by the producers for this pool account, would the minister ensure that these additional costs will be adequately and properly accounted for and explained to the House and the producers of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the Wheat Board has been making a very special effort to explain in great detail the costs and administrative issues involved in connection with the board and it will continue to do so. I will be happy to answer any questions in greater detail for the hon. member. A number of costs were higher this year. Interest rates at a very high level and initial prices being very high too, meant that carrying costs were very high; but I would not want to attribute the total cost of this by any means until I can have a more detailed reply for the hon. member.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Inasmuch as the minister has pointed out that interest, exchange and bank charges accounted for $21 million of the $35 million increase in that particular account, which amounts to an increase of 130 per cent over the previous year, has the minister checked into the matter to ascertain whether there is anything abnormal about this and, if so, is he in a position to explain it to the House? Could he also indicate when the annual report might be referred to the Standing Committee on Agriculture so that this whole matter may be pursued in a more thorough fashion?


Mr. Speaker, I have not looked for abnormalities but I am satisfied with the audited report of the Wheat Board's activities. The question of when the Wheat Board might appear before the committee with its annual report is something that I would be pleased to discuss with the members of this House.
Privilege-Mrs. Holt MULTICULTURALISM


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State in charge of multicul-turalism. In view of the emphasis which the government appears to be placing on multiculturalism by the appointment of a minister, does the minister anticipate that the multiculturalism office will be raised above the level of a directorate and will there be an increase in staff?


Mr. Speaker, no consideration has been given to that matter. It might be very helpful if the same question were asked of the Secretary of State, who no doubt is also giving consideration to that end.


Mr. Speaker, the reorganization of the department is a matter which we have under study at the present time. This is one of the questions which we will certainly examine and it is a question I am anxious to discuss with my colleague, who is proving to be very effective in the prosecution of his new duties as Minister of State responsible for multiculturalism.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, for the new minister. Has the staff of the minister's directorate prepared a reading list for him so that he can respond to questions in the House, and if so, when does he expect to be able to do so?


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, as I advised yesterday, I feel impelled to rise on a question of privilege with regard to the publication of confidential documents related to a subcommittee on which I serve.
When I entered this House in 1974, I felt a great pride in being able to bring with me the depth and richness of what I considered as one of the great careers in public service, that of jouralism. I knew that in a place such as this the importance of the role of the journalist was recognized and given stature. It happened in the British House of Commons. In Westminster the press was called the "fourth estate". I always believed that, next to parliament, no group could better serve the public interest.
But as time went on I found that a small group of men and women among the 200 in the fourth estate here served, not the public, but their own interests. They fed their undeveloped egos-those few-and the need for power which in their minds must exceed that of parliament itself. There is current evi-
5362

May 6, 1977
Privilege-Mrs. Holt
dence of distortion of their personal importance when the man who stole a confidential report out of, possibly, our own lobby is a hero, and an RCMP officer in the course of his duty in furtherance of the national security is a bum. I believe that they as reporters-as I was myself-are citizens before all else.
I never saw it more clearly and with more fear-yes, fear, Mr. Speaker-than in the case that I raise as an issue now. The damage that at least two of the parliamentary press corps, the Canadian publishers and news directors of the electronic media, have done to the public interest in the crucial area of correction and the penitentiary service of Canada cannot be measured. We, in the special subcommittee of the parliamentary committee on justice and legal affairs, have worked almost non-stop as a committee through night and day, some seven days a week, because of the urgency of our task. We scrubbed all party lines because the crisis in maximum security institutions, which we sought to resolve, was so volatile and crucial that we felt it must be dealt with co-operatively without confusion of the irrelevancy of party line.
For the same reasons, we dealt circumspectly with certain witnesses, hearing the evidence of a large number of them in camera, often not even recording their names or asking their names because we feared for their safety. If their names were leaked, we knew there could be retribution to the extent of maiming, even death. We are not exaggerating; we have evidence there is this great danger. I say this to explain the seriousness of my question of privilege, the need to determine once and for all whether confidential documents of a committee hearing should be published, even if they were available. Even if they were handed to a press person, I believe there is not the right to publish.
The Globe and Mail of May 4 published a Canadian Press story, which was also carried on radio and television, purporting to describe the contents of a draft report of the subcommittee on penitentiaries. First, Mr. Speaker, the document was not a draft report, but a report on which a draft would and might be based. The distinction is important because the document contained material too sensitive to be included in a published report but which would provide to an in-camera meeting of the subcommittee a justification and background for its conclusions, if the subcommittee agreed with it.
In every sense of the word, the matter was confidential and was never meant to be published. It contained statements that the committee might decide to reject, and did in fact reject. Therefore, obviously, it should not have been published. Its publication is a breach of the right of privacy of people who appeared before the committee, and the press report presents as facts propositions which had no subcommittee endorsation.
Secondly, Mr. Speaker, it was not the intention of any member to give this document to the press. We know that in some cases where leaks of draft reports occur, a member has intentionally given out a report and it is difficult to apportion blame to the press. In this case, however, a member of the committee claims that he accidentally put down his copy of the draft, and that the draft copy was clearly marked, in big
{Mrs. Holt.]
letters, "Confidential". He did not realize until later that it was missing. It should be noted that this did not happen in a public place, Mr. Speaker; it happened as the member was pursuing his duties within the parliament buildings, through the halls and lobbi