Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. This will be of particular interest to the hon. member for St. Boniface (Mr. Guay). In light of the results of yesterday's referendum in Selkirk regarding the establishment of a federal maximum penitentiary, the results of which were 1,711 in favour, 974 opposed, a two to one ratio in support of locating the new penitentiary in that town, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Kingston and the Islands (Miss MacDonald):
That the Solicitor General move quickly and decisively to locate the new Manitoba federal maximum security penitentiary in Selkirk, and that this decision be communicated immediately to mayor Lloyd Wersch and the council of Selkirk.


The presentation of such a motion pursuant to Standing Order 43 can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity arising out of the fact that the energy ministers' conference of yesterday has resulted in an agreement to raise the wellhead price of oil by another $2 a barrel. In light of the fact that officials of the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources have produced figures showing that the result of such a price increase on the economy would be a rise in the consumer price index of two per cent and an increase of nearly half a percentage point in the unemployment rate, resulting in the loss of 42,000 potential jobs, and in light of the fact that this price increase announcement comes at a time when the most
recent labour force figures show a rate of unemployment already at a record 8.3 per cent and the most recent consumer price figures show an annual rate of increase of over 11 per cent, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That this House instruct the government to refuse any increase in the wellhead price of oil within the foreseeable future on the grounds of its disastrous effect on an already weak economy.


Standing Order 43 requires the unanimous consent of the House for the presentation of such a motion. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to raise a question of pressing necessity.
Since the Quebec Federation of Raw Milk Producers are objecting to the request of the federal government for a 25 cents contribution per hundredweight of milk under the pretext that this request announced in the recent dairy policy is unconstitutional, while those raw milk producers consider that it is quite constitutional to receive a gross subsidy of $2.66 per hundredweight exclusive of their quota for their production, and especially since they have gained 25 per cent of the quotas for manufacturing milk producers against whom a 20 per cent penalty was levied last year, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Lotbiniere (Mr. Fortin):
That the House immediately suggest that the Minister of Agriculture take the necessary steps, through the organizations involved, to state once and for all in all fairness to manufacturing milk producers that if the constitution allows subsidies to producers, it also allows to withdraw or amend them and to table in the House a thorough report on this matter in the shortest possible time.


Order. The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under the provisions of Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there such consent?


Agreed.


No.

May 12, 1977
Energy


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43, I request the unanimous consent of the House to discuss an urgent and important matter.
Since 40 per cent of construction workers are unemployed in Montreal and considering that the housing sector in that area has reached a critical point and that it is urgent to find solutions, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich (Mr. Munro):
That the government grant as soon as possible the funds available for the Montreal region to undertake public works and urban renovations, in order to relieve the unemployment which affects that area.


Order, please. The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the fact that the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development just recently released a report recommending the establishment of minimum training standards for workers on offshore oil platforms and requested the member countries of OECD to ensure the best possible safety standards are applied on offshore rigs to prevent injuries and oil spills, and in view of the fact that there have been 80 deaths in connection with attempts to retrieve oil from the North Sea and that the potential for such may be high in the Beaufort Sea, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Northwest Territories (Mr. Firth):
That Canada immediately take a lead in establishing more rigorous standards and support early actions on this important OECD recommendation.


Pursuant to Standing Order 43 the presentation of such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, this week once more Canadians have been informed of record unemployment and record inflation levels. The consumer price index released today shows a year-end inflation rate from April 1976 to April 1977 of 7.6 per cent. The Minister of Finance said one and one-half months ago that the government would meet the 6 per cent annual inflation guideline. Two weeks ago he upped it to 7 per cent, and with today's announcement we see that for the first four months of 1977 Canadians are faced with an annual inflation rate now of 11 per cent. In view of the absolute bankruptcy of government policies, what new measures, if any, can the Canadian people and this House expect from the government? Will the government now abandon its inflation rate forecasting procedures which are obviously beyond a joke.


Mr. Speaker, I saw the report on the price increase. We still think that the goal set by the hon. Minister of Finance will be met by the end of the year.


Mr. Speaker, may I put a further supplementary question to the minister. In so far as the minister announced a target of 6 per cent a month and a half ago, then two weeks ago it was 7 per cent and now it is 11 per cent, may I ask the minister how he can make such a statement and can he inform the House that the government will now abandon its forecasting procedures and announce new methods?


Mr. Speaker, if you look carefully at the statistics published today you can see a trend that will lead to the goal set by the Minister of Finance.


Mr. Speaker, I have a further supplementary question and it is for the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Since the figures announced today largely involve an excessive increase in food prices with terrible effects on the many people unemployed and low-income Canadians, may I ask when the minister intends to announce to the House a precise and coordinated national food program?
Hon. A. C. Abbott (Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs): Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member correctly identifies, a large part of the increase was occasioned by an increase in food prices but a large part of that increase was occasioned by
May 12, 1977

the importation of foodstuffs from abroad that are beyond our control.


Like wheat and puffed rice.


The government is continuing to work toward the preparation of a national food strategy, an effort that I strongly endorse.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. The increase in gasoline and heating oil prices comes at a time when the annual rate of inflation this year is up to 11.4 per cent. The minister has rationalized the increase in oil and gas prices as a means of encouraging energy conservation and exploration. These price increases are only acceptable if there is an effective conservation and exploration program. In view of the fact that the International Energy Agency has said that our achievements in conservation are below average, may I ask if the minister is now going to create a truly effective national conservation program for energy and if so, how does he plan to do it?


Mr. Speaker, I have taken a look at what the International Energy Agency had to say about our efforts, particularly in the area of conservation. They have given us a great deal of credit for the initiatives we have taken in energy conservation but they have been critical in one area and that is with respect to our prices. They said that Canada had been holding down prices for too long below international price levels and they strongly urged that Canada should increase its prices. I would say that the view of the majority of ministers yesterday that we should raise our prices in orderly steps, is very much the view of the International Energy Agency.


Mr. Speaker, a final supplementary question. At the meeting yesterday I believe the minister suggested he is going to do something to expand the energy conservation home insulation program from the provinces of Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island to the rest of the country and this would be an effective step. Would the minister tell the House what other effective steps he might take and how does he explain, if he has an effective conservation program, now, that the chief of the office of energy conservation, Mr. David Brooks, resigned on the grounds of a dispute about conservation policy, describing the minister's policies as minimal? How does the minister explain that? This is a man on the scene in Canada and not some international agency.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows, Dr. David Brooks has served my department and Canadians extremely well.


He continues to do so.


I want to make it quite clear that I wish him well with the work he has chosen to do. In making a change as he has at this time, after a year's sabbatical granted to him a year ago to consider other options and career opportunities and where he would like to place his efforts, he has chosen a path that will undoubtedly be of advantage to Canadians. I wish him very well.


My question to the minister is this, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Brooks explained that he left the federal government because of a disagreement with the minister's department over conservation and he called the conservation policy minimal. We all wish the gentleman well in his next career, but can the minister answer his statement to the effect that the minister's policy is minimal, and what is the minister going to do about that?


Mr. Speaker, I think if the hon. member were to check he would find that Dr. David Brooks was misquoted.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources regarding the minister's announcement that the price of crude oil will rise $2 per barrel during the next 12 months. Since federal government studies show that a $2 per barrel increase will result in a 2 per cent increase in the cost of living, a 1.2 per cent decline in the gross national product and the potential loss of 42,000 jobs, I ask if these facts were taken into consideration when the federal government decided to approve the $2 per barrel increase? If so, will the minister tell the House if the government has considered that the plight of wage and salary earners in this country, who are restricted under the AIB to a 6 per cent pay increase and who now face an 11 per cent increase in the cost of living, will be further aggravated by the $2 per barrel increase in the price of oil? What does the government propose to do about the fact that this represents a reduction in the net incomes of millions of Canadian workers in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I do not accept the hon. member's figures at all. Frankly, I think there are serious errors in his figures.


What are the minister's figures?


The point which the hon. member, and I hope other Canadians, should recognize is that we would be derelict in our duty if we did not consider the long-term needs of

May 12, 1977
Oral Questions
Canadians for future energy supplies, and the importance of energy conservation. Energy ministers yesterday addressed themselves to that question and overwhelmingly-I include in that the majority of the consuming provinces as well as the producing provinces-they felt it was in Canada's interest that we should move our price up, because any other policy would have disastrous consequences for Canadians in the future.


supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The figures I quoted were given to a meeting of federal and provincial officials on March 4, 1976, and were quoted at the meeting of ministers over which the present Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources presided on March 5, 1976. The minister should be familiar with the figures of his own department. I ask the minister a question arising from a statement he has made repeatedly inside and outside the House, that these price increases are necessary in order to secure exploration and development. In the light of that, how can he explain that this country's petroleum industry in 1976, according to his own department's figures, when the price of oil was $9 a barrel, used 52 per cent of its internally generated cash flow for exploration, whereas in 1971, when the price of oil was only $3 per barrel, the industry invested 61.7 per cent of its cash flow in exploration. Will the minister explain why, despite the billions of dollars Canadian consumers have paid the petroleum company, that industry is spending a smaller percentage of its cash flow on exploration and development, therefore nullifying completely the minister's argument that higher prices will accelerate exploration in this country?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is being extremely selective with his figures; I suppose we should not be surprised. But if he would look at the next year, 1972, which was also a year before the increase of international prices and the start of the rise of Canadian prices, he would find that the percentages for 1976 which he quoted at 52 per cent, were higher than those in 1972. The hon. member has been selective in taking a particular year which best illustrates his particular case. I suggest to him that he look over the whole five year period. He would see that there is an increasing trend on the part of the oil industry toward exploration and development.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the minister if he is satisfied that the additional cash flow which the oil industry has received from the steady increase in the price of oil is only 52 per cent. May I ask him what percentage of the oil companies, internally generated cash flow ought to be used for exploration and development. What is the percentage? Will the minister tell us what the goal is that the federal government has set or is he leaving that matter entirely to the discretion of the oil companies?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member should also acknowledge there are other calls on the internally generated funds such as increases in working capital during an inflationary period and other capital expenditures which produce jobs for Canadians right across the country. The hon. member has not acknowledged this. If he were to acknowledge this, he would be able to state that a much larger proportion than the proportion he mentioned has been devoted to these capital projects. I say to him that I hope to see that particular trend increase for some years to come.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Agriculture of which I gave him a copy.
Can the minister tell the House about the results of the meeting he had with the supply management committee and the provincial Ministers of Agriculture which he mentioned in reply to my question of Tuesday last concerning manufacturing milk producers' provincial quotas for the 1977-78 production?


Mr. Speaker, we had a lengthy discussion. Two provincial governments or their milk marketing boards have made a decision that they will participate in the program. The others have not. Some wanted longer to consider. Some took a strong stand toward participating in our program in the way we had suggested to them. We said if there was any other way they could come up with an equitable method of finding a way to pay on all class one milk, we would accept that, and that they had until the first week of June to do it.
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, on a supplementary.
Can the minister tell us whether the people he met, who represent the manufacturing milk producers for the year 197778, are willing to recognize the problem of equity towards the Quebec manufacturing milk producers, whether that problem can be solved and whether government has the power, through the bodies involved, to demand that justice be done to those producers?


Mr. Speaker, the provincial minister of agriculture for Quebec did not attend the meeting yesterday. One of his representatives was
May 12, 1977

there. He sent the message that he thought what we were suggesting appeared to be fair. However, there is no way that I, as federal Minister of Agriculture, can deal with the inequity of quotas and so on, which may be as the hon. member has intimated, and tell the provinces how its quota should be administered.


Mr. Speaker, on a final supplementary.
Can the minister tell us whether the special envoy of the Quebec government is aware of the problem, whether he takes seriously the problem facing our manufacturing milk producers who have been wrongfully denied 25 per cent of their raw milk quotas in some provinces?


The representative sent by the government of Quebec is very familiar with all aspects of the dairy industry. He is one of their top civil servants and he has attended many meetings in Ottawa in the past.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. Has the government received an explanation from the chartered banks as to why they have chosen to delay lowering their prime lending rate until June 1 when the Bank of Canada obviously hoped for an immediate reduction in interest rates when it made its announcement last Friday. If such an explanation has been received, would the hon. gentleman inform the House as to its nature? I ask this, bearing in mind that every day's delay in lowering the rate by even half a point means that an extra one million dollars at least is being charged to Canadian borrowers.


Mr. Speaker, I noted the article on which the hon. member bases his question. I have looked into the matter and it appears that some banks did respond immediately by lowering their rates but that others did not. I am disappointed that the banks did not respond more immediately to the change in monetary policy indicated by the governor. I expressed my disappointment to the governor and I expect that he will convey our views, and the views of hon. members expressed here, to the banks.


Hear, hear!


The answer just given by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Finance indicates that some banks have responded while others did not. Could the Acting Prime Minister or the parliamentary secretary go further and tell us
Oral Questions
what banks have failed to respond and what explanation has been received in this regard?


We have not asked the banks for an explanation. I do not think the article which I read indicated which banks had responded. But some have done so. I would point out that banks are in competition with each other. The public ought to know that some banks have responded and are offering to lend money at lower rates of interest than others, and govern itself accordingly.


As the Provincial Bank has announced plans to lower consumer interest rates by half a per cent to 13 per cent, would the hon. gentleman indicate whether the government has used, or intends to use, moral suasion to induce banks which have not chosen to lower consumer interest rates to do so, bearing in mind that lower rates on consumer credit would help reduce prices and create the stimulus which is presumably needed to deal with unemployment?


Well, Mr. Speaker, the public has a free choice among the banks. If some banks are offering lower interest rates, the public ought to know it and act accordingly.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Amateur Sport and Fitness. The Canada Summer Games will take place in Newfoundland this year and I invite all hon. members to visit the province and enjoy our hospitality at that time. In view of the fact that there is now an urgent need in this country to express national unity, and since there is no more appropriate place to do this than on the sports field, I want to ask the minister, coming, as she does, from the beautiful west coast, what plans she has for the promotion of these games on the equally beautiful east coast?


Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. We are in fact beginning to promote the Canada Games at this time. We have an agreement with the Western Canada Lottery to promote the games via television twice a week starting very shortly. Also, the CBC is scheduled to commence regional television promotions of St. John's and the Canada Games. Its live national coverage of the games will be the most extensive ever in the history of the Canada Games. I should like to offer an invitation to all hon. members to attend the official kick-off ceremonies which will be taking place on Monday, May 16.


Hear, hear!

May 12, 1977
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. The hon. gentleman said last Monday in the House that the law clearly stipulates that contracts cannot continue after December, 1978, even though I think there is a twist in the law which might permit the government to continue them after that date. Since the parliamentary secretary said a week ago that controls will not end by the end of 1977 because the expectations of Canadians have not decreased to the level where we can accept voluntary restraints, I should like to ask whether the government has now abandoned ail hope of ending controls before the end of next year?


No, Mr. Speaker.


In view of the continued presence and even acceleration of high inflation despite some 18 months of controls, is the minister still satisfied with controls as the main attack on inflation?


Yes, sir.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the fact that the increases in oil prices agreed to at the conference yesterday will cause serious hardship to the Province of Newfoundland which is already torn asunder by increases in fuel prices affecting low income-earners, is the minister now prepared to expand the insulation program, or Enersave, in that province to alleviate the serious situation?


I am pleased the hon. member mentioned Enersave. I think the response in Newfoundland to this federal initiative for energy saving has been almost 100 per cent. I think it has demonstrated to Newfoundlanders the real opportunities for energy saving which exist. As to whether we shall be able to provide any help additional to that which we have provided and are now providing to Newfoundland, I am not in a position to give the hon. member any information at this point. I do know that energy ministers all across the country are addressing themselves to the question of what additional measures they, and we, may be able to take in the near future. Perhaps in a matter of a few months I shall be in a position to say more.


The minister realizes the need to develop alternate sources of supply. Has any progress been made to help the province develop the Gull Island site?


The hon. member would be helping his cause and the cause of Newfoundlanders if he would ask the premier of Newfoundland to get on with the job of providing me with the information. I have been waiting for six weeks now, for information which was promised to me much earlier.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. The Science Council of Canada stated that the food and agriculture sectors of the economy in this country consume about 28 per cent of the petroleum products used. Since there is to be another price hike amounting to about $2 per barrel on oil, may I ask whether the minister has studied the impact of this increase on food prices? If he has, what does he intend to do about it? Is he considering tax cuts or other benefits of that nature for farmers and fishermen?


The government's concern in this area is evident from its actions. The fact is, we are taking care of our farmers in a better manner than ever before. We have surpassed the United States in the measure of aid we give to farmers through our stabilization programs and the marketing programs available to our farmers. In most instances these costs are taken into consideration and if necessary we use the stabilization legislation as a further measure of assistance.


In view of that totally useless answer I should like to direct my supplementary question to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Would he tell us whether his department is making any study of the impact the rising energy costs will have on the price of food, the Science Council having stated that food and agriculture use about 28 per cent of the petroleum used in Canada?
Hon. A. C. Abbott (Minister of Consumer and Corporate
Affairs): My department is not equipped to carry out research of that sort.
May 12, 1977


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister. In view of the fact that Statistics Canada has reported that average weekly earnings increased by nearly 10 per cent in the 12 months ending in February-a rate considerably in excess of the second year wage guidelines under the anti-inflation program-can the minister explain to the House why, after well over a year of controls, average industrial wages are still increasing at rates well above the wage guidelines?


Mr. Speaker, the answer is extremely complex because all wages are not necessarily controlled in Canada. Businesses with fewer than 500 employees are not submitted to the controls, and I shall have a look at the figures which were mentioned this afternoon by the hon. member and give him a more explicit answer tomorrow.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Noting that the latest available measures indicate that Canadian average industrial wages are rising at a rate of some 4 per cent faster than comparable wage rates in the United States, can the minister explain to the House what factors led the Minister of Finance to pronounce so confidently in his budget speech that the erosion in our competitive position was being checked, and can he indicate to the House when he expects some progress to be made towards the restoration of our competitive position?


Mr. Speaker, I think it is evident that since last year, when the Canadian dollar went from $1 to 95 cents U.S., we have substantially improved our competitive position.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. As Canadian export prices have increased 18 per cent in the first two months of this year, can the minister tell the House why this sudden increase has occurred, whether it will likely continue for the balance of the year, and will it erode our export position?


Mr. Speaker, according to the forecasts for the cur-
Oral Questions
rent year, we are doing quite well on the export market in spite of the increase mentioned by the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture. Now that another weekly cabinet meeting has come and gone is the minister in a position to announce the formation of a national chicken marketing agency, and if not, why not?


No, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport?
Could the minister tell the House whether the government will soon be in a position to consider the representations which have been made by the Quebec Urban Community and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Metropolitan Quebec about dredging to 41 feet the shipping channel of the port of Quebec City?


Mr. Speaker, we had asked for tenders at several depths, and on examining the tenders it did appear that we would be able to get a very good price at the 41 foot level. I have today joined in announcing that that would be done. This, of course, respects the representations of members of parliament from the Quebec region as well as from the city and chamber, to the effect that the development of that area very much depends upon that extra depth. Therefore, we decided to go ahead with it and act immediately, in the hope that the dredging can be completed by November of this year. That is our expectation and we will deal with the question of appropriate cost recovery in another manner.


Mr. Speaker, my questions are for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources and are further to those raised Monday regard-
5550

May 12, 1977
Oral Questions
ing the fee paid to Shaul Eisenberg on the sale of a CANDU reactor to South Korea. Having read the report from the Canadian embassy in Seoul which quoted the ex-president of Korean Electric Company as having said that Eisenberg performed the normal liaison functions of a commercial agent, and as well having read and listened to the statements of the vice-president and the executive vice-president of that same company who state categorically that there was no connection with an agent and that the Korean Electric Company negotiated directly with AECL for the sale of the CANDU reactor, can the minister say on what basis he makes the claim that the statements of these two top ranking officials of the Korean Electric Company are false, as he did in the House on Monday?


Mr. Speaker, based on the testimony of the senior officer who was present at the time. May I say I think the hon. lady is referring to another press report which appeared in a Toronto newspaper this morning. If that is the source of her information, I have been told that the two persons who gave that information were not members of the Korean Electric Company at the time so they did not have first-hand knowledge of the events at that time. If she wants to put further questions on this matter, though, I suggest to her that perhaps the right person to ask would be Mr. Campbell, the chairman of AECL, when he appears before the committee. I believe that the public accounts committee will be meeting next week and that is surely the place to pursue her inquiries.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Having put numerous questions to Mr. Campbell on this already with no response forthcoming, I should like to ask the minister this question. Given the fact that there has been very little information forthcoming to the public accounts committee, and vouchers to substantiate the $15 million in payment of fees to Mr. Eisenberg have not been produced, and since both Eisenberg and Korean officials refuse to appear before the public accounts committee and we are now presented with two quite strikingly different accounts of Mr. Eisenberg's activities, is the minister satisfied that this brief report from the Canadian embassy in Seoul is sufficient to warrant the expenditure of some $15 million of public moneys as an agent's fee? In other words, is this as far as the government is prepared to go to satisfy itself that this money of the Canadian taxpayer has not been misspent?


Mr. Speaker, I want to help the hon. lady and I will do everything I can.


Answer the question then.


We have gone to the source where we think the information is likely to be accurate. She is quoting from a newspaper report based on the supposed statements, the alleged statements, of two persons who were not even there at the time. If she is not satisfied with that information, let her put those questions to Mr. Campbell.


I have.


Mr. Speaker, my question for the minister is supplementary. Will he not establish a revolutionary precedent in this House by admitting that he does not know what he is talking about and is only parroting the statements made to him by his advisers, who have a vested interest in concealing the facts on this issue?


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, may I direct my question to the Minister of Transport. Would the Minister of Transport shed a little light on his attitude respecting the invoicing of CALPA and CATCA in connection with trips made by executives of those two organizations to Ottawa about a year ago at the request of the minister's departmental advisers, who helped resolve the very serious air travel situation existing in this country at the time and indicate whether or not he is prepared to rescind or to cancel those invoices and arrange to have whatever billing is necessary paid for out of departmental accounts?


Mr. Speaker, I am not yet prepared to comment on that question. I had not been aware until very recently that there was any dispute about it, and I have not received a report.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if 1 understand correctly the minister's comments on this matter that is now before him, to which he is directing some of his attention, that perhaps we will have an answer within a week?


Mr. Speaker, I think that would be reasonable.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Postmaster General whom I trust will help to resolve the current confusion in the mail service in the Toronto area. Has the Postmaster General been made aware of the test conducted recently by Alderman Ying Hope on mail delivery in Toronto, where only five of 49 letters reached their destination overnight; some took over a week to deliver; and six letters never arrived at all? In view of the vital importance of a reliable speedy mail service in the Toronto area, will the minister launch a wide-scale investigation in an attempt to resolve the problem and give the city of Toronto the quality of mail service it urgently requires?
May 12, 1977


And that it has been used to, I might add, Mr. Speaker. As I indicated to the hon. gentleman in committee, when we were dealing with the estimates, the situation in Toronto is an aberration that is of short duration. It is one that was brought about as a result of the acceleration of the program of transferring from the manual sorting in terminal A to the three postal plants. As of Monday of this week, the backlog represented one shift in Toronto, and that was concentrated in the south central plant.
With reference to Mr. Ying Hope's experiment, I am not personally familiar with his experimentation or what the criteria were that he employed in conducting his test. All I know is that it is an old test, and surely he has received all the pieces of mail. The discrepancy in the usual service provided, which is the service he has been used to, was due to what I have just advanced to the hon. gentleman, namely, a temporary aberration and one that we are sure has now been removed. I am now asking all members if they have any specific instances of difficulty which they are encountering to make me personally aware of them so that I can check them all out.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is with regard to the same subject. I am sure the alderman agrees that "hope" springs eternal in these matters. Arising from the complaints of the Independent Businessmen's Association with regard to the fact that mail is so slow in the Toronto area and that the cancellation date on envelopes is no longer accepted as a payment date for outstanding accounts, would the Postmaster General also investigate this problem to see if he can resolve it as well?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. gentleman knows, I am very interested in the opinions of small businessmen and of the federation as well. We depend on them as they depend on us. I am not aware of the substance of the representations of the hon. gentleman having been made by the Canadian Federation of Independent Businessmen. I will look at those representations and see what can be done.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the hon. President of the Treasury Board who is responsible for so many matters affecting the Public Service. My question is prompted by reports in the press this last day or so indicating that a language boycott has been organized by some 13,000 public servants in the Montreal area by refusing to provide services in the English language until certain conditions are met. I am wondering whether the minister can say what steps he and his government are taking to restore these services to the taxpayers of Montreal?


Mr. Speaker, the situation could be described as being some-
Oral Questions
what hypothetical because, other than the press reports, there have been no communications to us about this action. As of this moment, the best information I have-and I have checked with all departments-is that there are in fact no instances of refusal to serve in both official languages. Thus, it is more of a threat than concrete action at the moment.
Having said that, I want to clearly indicate those people in Quebec or anywhere else, who are incumbents of designated bilingual positions, clearly understand that their duties are to perform a service and to deliver information and services in both official languages to the populace as requested. That is the official policy of this government, and indeed it will be enforced. Dealing only with the press report, because there have been no other indications of this issue, compensation bonus is one of the issues which is subject to final determination when we complete the deep analysis of the implementation of the official languages policy which is now under way. We anticipate that completion within a few weeks.
The other issue is an apparent request to reduce the number of bilingual positions in Quebec, which is rather interesting to us because just a year or so ago the very same people, who are now complaining about it, were pressing for an increase in the number of bilingual positions in that area. Indeed, we might favour their newer proposal rather than their earlier one.


Mr. Speaker, I am glad the minister has been able to clear this up. It is perhaps pressure tactics on the part of that group. I am wondering if the minister has any comment to make about the study undertaken, which started about two years ago, concerning the bonus, and whether in fact there is some date that can be looked forward to for the publication of this report and its implementation?


Mr. Speaker, there was an earlier statement by the government that such action would be effective. That would be, of course, retroactive to November 1, 1976. At that time it was clearly indicated-and I think the unions fully understand-that it was a very complex single issue. There was the question of methodology, the question of amounts and the question of criteria for making available such compensation. That complexity has been further exacerbated because it is totally related to the announced intention of the government to review its official languages implementation policy, not the least important of which would be the delineation of the number of designated bilingual positions which would carry access to such compensation when implemented. I also heard comments by union spokesmen that they fully recognized the first thing that should take place, which is the announcement of the new implementation policy of the Official Languages Act when that is available. As I indicated in my previous answer, that is likely to be forthcoming before the end of this session hopefully, but I would think within the next few weeks.
80016-11%

May 12, 1977
Oral Questions ENERGY


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. He indicated earlier that Dr. Brooks has been misquoted by the press. I would like to give the minister a quote of his own to see whether he has been misquoted. This appeared in the Alaska press two days ago. The article quoted the minister as saying that no one invited Mr. Berger to recommend against a pipeline. Would the minister advise the House as to whether he was misquoted? If he was not misquoted, would he advise the House whether it is now the government's position that Mr. Justice Berger has exceeded his mandate in the Berger report?


Mr. Speaker, on a number of occasions I have lauded the Berger report as a very comprehensive document and indeed a very eloquent statement. I have nothing further to add at this time.


Mr. Speaker, I wanted to find out, first of all, if the minister made the statement. Second, the minister indicated, when he announced the insulation program in Nova Scotia, that the cost of gaining an extra barrel of oil by saving it is a fraction of the cost of finding and producing the same barrel. I commend the minister for that statement.
In view of the fact if we had a national insulation program that we would save more energy than we can get out of the Mackenzie Delta and it would be at one third of the cost; in view of the fact that the minister has two programs in front of the Treasury Board-one a national insulation program and the other another tar sands program-and in view of what the minister said about conservation, would the minister advise which one of those two programs he wishes to have funded? Would it be the national insulation program or the extra tar sands?


Mr. Speaker, I would recommend to the hon. member that he reread "Energy Strategy for Canada-Policies for Self-Reliance". If he does, he will see the kind of gap we are faced with-the gap between domestic production and foreign imports of oil-that is to say, the problem of reducing a growing dependence on foreign oil which is what the situation will be in 1985 if we do not increase our conservation efforts, bring on a tar sands plan and bring down our resources from the north. We will be in real difficulty.


My final supplementary question is this, Mr. Speaker. On the program for national insulation some prov-
[Mr. Andras.l
inces have indicated acceptance and some have indicated refusal. Why does the minister not proceed with the national program with the provinces that have accepted and are willing to go on with the program, so that we can make some energy decisions?


Oh, oh!


Come on, Alastair, up on your feet.


Order, please.


Yesterday, the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Lambert) rose on a question of privilege in connection with a news bulletin issued by a Radio-Canada reporter and reflecting on the political loyalty of the hon. member for Bellechasse.
I have examined most attentively this question of privilege, together with the following motion:
That considering the prejudice to my reputation as the hon. member for Bellechasse, this House request Radio-Canada to set the facts straight as soon as possible.
I have considered a number of precedents, especially that of the hon. member for Madawaska-Victoria (Mr. Corbin) on May 20, 1976. I suggest the two cases are similar. This issue of the objectivity of the media is often discussed in the House following questions of privilege. It would be difficult, however, to claim that the quality of the information spread by the press could warrant a question of privilege.
As I indicated in the decision I rendered on May 20, 1976, we must take into account here a basic right which is as important as parliamentary privileges, namely the right of the freedom of the press which must not be interfered with, except in cases of very serious contempt of Parliament, which is not the case today. The hon. member for Bellechasse certainly entertains an important grievance but, on the basis of our precedents and parliamentary practice, I must regretfully find that this is not a true question of privilege.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Postmaster General in his position as deputy House leader. I should like to ask whether he can inform us of the business of the House for the balance of this week. I understand he is prepared to designate two days next week as opposition days. If he could do that, I would be grateful.
May 12, 1977

I wonder, at the same time, if he could tell the House the intentions of the government with respect to the notice of motion appearing in the name of the President of the Privy Council respecting the question of northern gas pipelines. It appears on page VIII of todays order paper. I am really interested in knowing the purpose of the motion. Is it merely as window-dressing, or is it the intention of the government to bring in that motion for debate quickly and, if so, is it the intention of the government to bring the motion on in such a way that the matter may come to a vote? I really want to know why it is there.


I had hoped the hon. gentleman, in raising his point of order, would seek information and would refrain from editorializing or engaging in debate.


Oh, oh!


If the hon. member is interested in knowing the business of the House, I would be pleased to inform him. If he wants to engage in debate on various items on the order paper, we can oblige him as well. I am pleased to advise him that we will be continuing today with Bill C-51. Tomorrow is an opposition day, as the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton knows. On Monday we will resume debate on Bill C-51 and, I hope, dispose of it-if we do not do so today. I hope we might refer it to the committee this afternoon.


Don't editorialize.


Then we will proceed with Bill C-38, the fisheries and environment bill. Subsequently, we will deal with the customs tariff, the excise tax legislation, followed by the Bretton Woods Agreements Act. As well, we will be dealing with allotted days on Wednesday and Thursday of next week, as the hon. gentleman has indicated. We hope that the items I have enumerated will take us through next Friday. With reference to the item on the order paper mentioned by the hon. member, I have a great deal of respect for the President of the Privy Council and I believe that when he puts an item on the order paper it is there, not as window-dressing but as a substantive item to be dealt with by the House.


I am surprised that the deputy House leader should think I am editorializing, when I speak so gently to him.


Oh, oh!


I asked him two questions which may have escaped him. He has indicated that the President of the Privy Council seriously put the motion on the order paper. I asked him two questions arising out of it. He can tell me if he has no instructions, and if he has instructions I would appreciate an answer. Is it the intention of the government to arrange to bring that matter to a vote? If that is the case, would he be prepared to discuss that motion? Also, can he tell the House when the motion will be brought forward? It deals with an important matter. If he does not have instructions on this, let him say so today and I can put
Privilege-Mr. Fortin
my question to the government House leader. If he does, can he answer the questions?


First of all, Mr. Speaker, I have announced the business for next week. It is not the habit of the House leader or the deputy House leader to deal with a matter of that importance without due consultation with all the representatives of the other parties. Today we have not discussed that; we have not entered into any discussions relating to that item. When it is time to discuss that item and negotiate the time the House is ready to allow, the hon. gentleman from Grenville-Carleton will be advised.


In other words, you don't know.


Mr. Speaker, I think the Postmaster General has indicated why there is some concern about this motion. It was understood there would be a discussion among the House leaders about a possible debate on the northern pipeline situation, so it comes as a surprise to us that a motion is on the order paper without that discussion having taken place. But in view of the question asked by the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton about the motion coming to a vote, may I ask what is the point of having a vote on a motion which simply says we will not take any decision?


It has been done before.


With your permission, Mr. Speaker, I would like to raise a question of privilege. I could not do so before since I just received this answer to a question I had asked the Secretary of State (Mr. Roberts) through the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) about the by-election coverage by Radio-Canada of the Social Credit Party of Canada. Here is the answer, and I submit that our privileges are actually affected. This answer comes from the Secretary of State himself.
Dear Sir:
As I had promised in my answer to your oral question on May 3, 1977, I am happy to inform you that I have received from Radio-Canada a report about the news coverage made last weekend on the by-elections.
Radio-Canada has given me the following information:
The French TV network initiated in the middle of April a First series of programs regarding the by-elections to be held at the end of May.
One must then not assess the value of the coverage on the First part alone.
The objective of those programs was not to take stock of all nominations in each riding, partly because all parties do not yet have candidates in all ridings, and the nominations are not all made.
The objective was to give a preliminary picture of the ridings with the main forces already in place and committed for sure in the election campaign.

May 12, 1977
Privilege-Mr. Fortin
Now, Mr. Speaker, here is where our privileges are violated.
In Langelier and Louis-Hebert, the candidates already identified and campaigning at the time of the program were Liberals Lamontagne and Dawson and Conservatives Hamel 