The House resumed, from Tuesday, May 31, consideration of Bill C-25, to extend the present laws in Canada that proscribe discrimination and that protect the privacy of individuals, as reported (with amendments) from the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs; and the amendment thereto of Mr. Woolliams.
Mr. Speaker, I had about two minutes in which to start my speech the other night. Perhaps 1 could set the scene again this morning for those who might be unfamiliar with the issue raised by my friend, the hon. member for Calgary North (Mr. Woolliams). We are dealing with Bill C-25, an act to extend the present laws in Canada that proscribe discrimination and that protect the privacy of individuals. Most of us, however, call it-as indeed it calls itself in clause 1-the Canadian human rights act.
The measure before us presents a procedure for people who feel themselves aggrieved under a variety of circumstances. These are set forth in a series called "discriminatory practices" in clauses 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Then there are exceptions not considered to be discriminatory practices which follow. If one has a complaint under the human rights act, one can take it before the commission and an investigation may be launched. The official may say that the complaint will be taken up elswhere, that there is another act of parliament which offers a remedy. I presume, since we deal with dominion-provincial niceties and things like this, the commission might direct the person to take his complaint before a provincial ombudsman because that is where any remedy, if possible, lies.
There is a procedure for conciliation. The result of that conciliation may, by clause 38, be referred to the commission for its approval. All that failing, the person aggrieved can march on to the human rights tribunal. Its powers are set forth in clause 40 of the measure before us. It is possible to go to the Federal Court to make the finding of that human rights tribunal an enforcement. In effect, the Minister of Justice and the government are saying that while the human rights tribunal can adjudicate and make a decision, the power of
enforcement must be found somewhere else. They place that power in the Federal Court.
If I can complete the reference to the Federal Court as specifically set out in the measure before us, in clause 44 there are other rules set out for the court. However, the act goes no further than that and a person who is aggrieved by the finding of a human rights tribunal must ask himself where he can go from there. In the Federal Court Act is section 28 which provides the right of appeal from administrative decisions to the Federal Court in certain circumstances. It is on section 28 that the Minister of Justice (Mr. Basford) relied when he turned down the motion we are now debating. On the other hand, the Minister of Justice has to admit, as he did the other night, that there are some sections of the Federal Court Act which give rise to difficulty, that a study is being made, and so on. So it is possible we shall be faced with an amendment some time in the future to clear up imperfections in that act.
[DOT] (mo)
I have no quarrel with that, but I must quarrel with the contention of the Minister of Justice when he says the Federal Court Act will give an aggrieved person protection. If section 28 is doubtful at all-and I gather it is-then surely somebody who has a complaint about a human rights decision should not be placed in the position of having to spend a pile of money going through all the procedures, including a hearing before the tribunal, and then having to wonder whether, going one step further, section 28 really fits the purpose. This is why I support the proposition put forward by the hon. member for Calgary North. At least the motion before us does one thing. It gives a clear right, a positive right, and no one will find himself engaged in legal foofaraw in the courts to the extent of that right.
If we can send out of parliament a procedure which people can follow, which is easy to understand, which does not get people involved in the dreadful labyrinth of argument as to what exactly the legislation means, I say by all means do so. There is a virtue in having a clear right set forth, one which can be clearly understood by people who become enmeshed in the law. But if the minister still has any doubt about section 28, let him bring in his remedy at a future time and then repeal what is proposed by the hon. member for Calgary North. To my mind, it is as simple as that. We passed a motion presented by the hon. member for Calgary North as a good solution, one which makes sense, one which can be followed. If the Minister of Justice finds that section 28 does not serve the interests of people who have been confounded by the decisions of administrative tribunals, he can come along

June 2, 1977
Canadian Human Rights
with his own remedy and what the hon. member has done on a short-term basis can be reviewed on a long-term basis.
My feeling is that we must decide in favour of something that is exact and which will work, and that we are bound to reject the thoughts of the Minister of Justice, "Section 28 may be good or it may be bad, so we shall study it and perhaps do something about it later." If that is the way we run this country, God help any members of parliament who have anything to do with sanctioning such an approach.
My final point has been expressed so eloquently by my hon. friend from Annapolis Valley (Mr. Nowlan) that I simply want to go on record as endorsing his position. If we can set up a procedure which follows a doctrine of consistency, that should be done. We have a long-established tradition in the courts of Canada whereby judges are bound by what other judges have decided. I should like to see this doctrine of consistency embedded here through the provision of the right to appeal through the Federal Court. Our judges operate from Newfoundland to Vancouver Island, and from Pelee Island to the Arctic pole. They are bound by standards of consistency. Tribunals, it seems to me, are not likely to achieve such standards within a reasonable period of time. Consistency is a virtue in the law, anyway.
The minister should accept the very practical suggestion put forward by the hon. member for Calgary North. The Minister of Justice has always struck me as being a very practical person. I do not know why he feels called upon to dig in his heels about a suggestion like this, one which has the hallmark of common sense. No one can point to any awful reason why it ought not to be accepted. It makes sense. Mr. Speaker, I have made my pitch in the best way 1 know, and 1 hope the minister will accept it.


Unfortunately, Mr. Speaker, I was not able to be in parliament when the earlier part of the debate took place. I understand that the hon. member of Calgary North (Mr. Woolliams) made an eloquent and impassioned plea for the amendment which is now before us. Notwithstanding this, I cannot agree to the amendment. The purpose of the amendment, apparently, is to give the right of appeal to the Federal Court from any order, decision or review of a tribunal: I think both the tribunal and the review tribunal are included. The idea is that a review by a court somehow or other improves the situation; that going to court is the right way to deal with any administrative act. I have had quite a different experience. Certainly there are some matters that ought to be reviewed by the courts, but there are others which administrative tribunals are far better suited to deal with than are the courts themselves.
[DOT] (U20)
What I am afraid of, Mr. Speaker-and this has been found to be so-is that some lawyers have been protesting over the years that the courts should have a monopoly on dealing with these matters, yet in practice it has not been found to be the best way of securing the justice which parliament is seeking to enact in this type of legislation.


A typical socialist statement.


If that is a typical socialist statement, then yours is a typical reactionary attitude, so we are even on that particular point.


I am not asking for the court; I am asking for an appeal from the tribunal.


I know you are, and I will outline what 1 think is the trouble with an appeal. First of all, it would cause expense, and this matters to some people who are being discriminated against. A person cannot go to the Federal Court without considerable expense. Second, it would cause delay. There is nothing that some employers, or others who have indulged in acts of discrimination, would rather have than be able to delay matters by lengthy proceedings. The Federal Court is already overburdened with work. Apart from the theoretical result of passing this amendment, the practical result would be to delay and to add to expense. Indeed, it would help frustrate the purposes of the act, some of which are not only that justice be done, but that it be done with expedition.
Although I was not here at the time, I understand the Minister of Justice (Mr. Basford) has already called the attention of the House to the fact that in the Federal Court Act section 28 provides for review of cases where there has been a breach of national rights or excessive jurisdiction has been exercised. It seems to me that that is a perfectly adequate remedy, rather than setting up special individual rights of appeal.
It is because we want the legislation to be effective that we propose to vote against this amendment. We think it would frustrate and delay the healthy operation of the legislation. 1 do not think I need elaborate any further on our reasons. 1 dispute the proposition that courts are the only tribunals fit to consider matters of the kind encompassed within this bill. Practice has shown it to be the converse. The courts have their virtues, but they also have their failings, and sometimes their failings consist of lack of appreciation of the kinds of matters which are dealt with by this bill. General jurisdiction to review cases of injustice, or complete disregard for human rights, or breaches of jurisdiction, is something that should be preserved, but this particular right of appeal is unnecessary. I hope that the House will reject this amendment.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak on behalf of this amendment. I think the right of appeal is imperative if we are to preserve human rights in this country. I have received a notice from a constituent of mine who works on behalf of diabetics in Canada. This is a fairly small group, though probably larger as a group than we realize, which is discriminated against more frequently than we know. It has just come to my attention that one government agency or corporation, the CNR, is in the vanguard of this kind of discrimination. I am recently in receipt of a letter from a young man, 20 years old, who has been working for the CNR for about three years. He decided to apply for a different
June 2, 1977

job within the corporation, and in the process of making application he naturally had to have a medical. The doctor in charge was a Dr. Rosetti, who made the following statement:
CNR will not hire diabetics for any position no matter how stable or unstable the person's diabetes may be.
Dr. Rosetti said he had never allowed a diabetic who had come through his office to be hired by the company. Other matters have come to my attention in connection with diabetics who have been discriminated against. I have mentioned in the House the matter of the Bank of Montreal. Soon after that incident I received a letter from another diabetic in Toronto who had on file a letter from another bank which had the same discriminatory hiring practices. We now have a government agency discriminating against diabetics.
The extent to which these companies go to discriminate against diabetics indicates the need for the kind of tribunal which the hon. member for Calgary North (Mr. Woolliams) is recommending ought to be included in the legislation. I, therefore, want to go on record as supporting this kind of amendment which would ensure protection of the rights of this minority group who are facing flagrant discrimination on the part of large corporations.


Is the House ready for the question?


Question.


All those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the nays have it.
And more than five members having risen:


Call in the members.


I declare the motion lost.


that the bill be concurred in.


Motion agreed to.
When shall the bill be read the third time? By leave, now?


Now.
6198

June 2, 1977
Canadian Human Rights


that the bill be read the third time and do pass.
He said: Mr. Speaker, when I addressed this bill on second reading debate-


Order, please. I hope hon. members who wish to leave will do so quickly, so the minister may begin his remards and be heard.


Mr. Speaker, when I addressed this bill on second reading debate I suggested that parliament could, and should give it careful and constructive examination and yet pass it by the end of June. That objective was agreed to by spokesmen of all parties in this House. I appreciate the support from all corners of the House and the constructive interest that has been expressed in the bill. 1 suspect it would pass third reading without debate or a statement from me or anyone else, but 1 thought it valuable that the House should pause for a brief time just before it is given third reading.
There are two principles embodied in the bill. The first, which applies to parts I, II and III of the bill, is set out in clause 2(a) which reads as follows:
-every individual should have an equal opportunity with other individuals to make for himself or herself the life that he or she is able and wishes to have, consistent with his or her duties and obligations as a member of society, without being hindered in or prevented from doing so by discriminatory practices, based on race, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, age, sex or marital status, or conviction for an offence for which a pardon has been granted or by discriminatory employment practices based on physical handicap-
The grounds of discrimination prohibited under that clause constitute the most complete and comprehensive listing in any of the Canadian provinces or in the United States at the federal or state level. It is for that reason that I think the bill has received the support of all parties in this House.
One particularly important aspect of the anti-discrimination portion of the bill is the requirement that there be equal pay for work of equal value between men and women. This concept, put forward in the work of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women and the principle set out in the International Labour Organization's equal pay formula, and now being enacted in this bill, is a very significant development in equal pay legislation. It has received the enthusiastic support of all the major women's organizations in this country. Hopefully, the adoption of this measure at the federal level in this country will give us the instruments to deal with the serious problem that women face of low-paying job ghettos. I want to express my appreciation for the work of those organizations in the development and passage of this bill. Those same organizations were concerned about one provision in the bill, and I would ask them to note the amendment made in committee by which the loophole they feared has been closed.
In the area of human rights, the mechanism of enforcement is as important as the declarative divisions themselves. Parts II and III of the bill provide that mechanism, setting forth, respectively, the nature of the human rights commission and the procedural system for investigation of a complaint which, if not settled at that stage, can be followed either by conciliation or referral to a tribunal. It should be noted that those two
parts of the bill also set out the research, educational and reporting functions of the commission. The second principle embodied in this bill is set out in clause 2(b), which reads as follows:
the privacy of individuals and their right of access to records containing personal information concerning them for any purpose including the purpose of ensuring accuracy and completeness should be protected to the greatest extent consistent with the public interest.
The translation of this principle into law is found in part IV. This part would provide Canadians with the right of access to personal information contained in government files, the right to request correction of that information where it is not felt to be accurate, and the right to control of that information. This represents the first time that such rights will be granted in Canada and, indeed, in a parliamentary system anywhere in the world that is similar to Canada. It is an extremely important development in the recognition and protection of individual rights. Under this system any individual will be able to consult an index covering all government records containing personal information which is used for administrative purposes. He can then apply to the government for any of the rights listed above. If his application is denied, he can refer the matter to the privacy commissioner who shall sit as a special member of the human rights commission.
Of course, the public interest and the protection of the privacy of others both demand that some exemptions to the principle be included in the bill. Obviously, for example, it would not be in the public interest to grant heroin traffickers a right of access to police investigation files. Real efforts have been taken to limit these exemptions to the greatest extent possible consistent with the public interest.
The proposition set out in clause 2(b) was amended in committee. It sets out, in connection with the protection of privacy of individuals and the right of Canadians to access of information, a set of objectives and principles for part IV. I hope, as I am sure all members of the House hope, that the administrators of this act in time to come will interpret the exemptions in light of the principles and objectives of the bill, in light of the spirit of the bill, and that, to the greatest extent possible, there will be access to information.
I would like to take a few minutes to emphasize that the rights being granted under part IV must not be confused with the concept of freedom of information. There has been confusion among some members of parliament and some members of the public, including the Canadian Bar Association, that part IV amounts to, or is intended to be, a substitute for freedom of information legislation. This is quite wrong. Whereas freedom of information deals with the access of the public to government documents in general, part IV provides a mechanism for an individual to see his own file, at the same time excluding him from seeing personal information about others which would amount to an invasion of their privacy. I agree with the statement by my predecesor that "the right to privacy and the right to know are not contradictory but complementary; they are companion rather than conflicting

June 2, 1977

freedoms". However, it should be recognized that the two are quite different.
Although part IV deals with one only of these so-called "twin freedoms", this is not to suggest that the other one is to be neglected. I forcefully endorse the concept of freedom of information and this government is presently involved in preparing a policy paper on the issue for presentation to the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Statutory Instruments which will be brought forward by my colleague, the Secretary of State (Mr. Roberts). This matter can then be studied with a view to developing the best legislation possible on the methods to improve public access to government information. I expect that this paper will soon be available and 1 hope that we will see early legislation on the subject.
I wish to make two important policy suggestions. While the provisions of part IV only apply at present to departments and agencies of the federal government, on the basis that we should legislate our own instrumentalities first, it is important that a scheme for the protection of privacy and the right of individuals to correct information in data banks be extended as rapidly as possible to services and industries in the federally-regulated private sector. Soon after the privacy commissioner is appointed 1 intend to direct that he undertake a study into the possibility of such action. We are seeing more and more, in the private sector, the development of bigger and bigger data bank systems. It is important that they be subject to some form of legislation and regulation. I also hope that through the enactment of Part IV and through discussions with the provinces, the provinces will be encouraged to take action to grant individuals the right of access to personal information and the right of correction.
Having mentioned both portions of the Human Rights Act, I would like to return to the grounds of prohibition provided for in part I. In committee a number of other grounds of discrimination were discussed, such as the possibility of including language, sexual orientation, political affiliation and physical handicap in the areas of services, facilities and accommodation. Obviously, under this legislation physical handicap is included as a ground only in employment matters. The reasons for not including those grounds were discussed and fully examined in the committee. I wish to mention only two.
Parliament, through its official languages regime, is actively involved in the protection and promotion of French and English language rights in this country. To include through our Official Languages Act, through resolutions of the parliament of Canada or through other means, official language rights in a general anti-discrimination scheme would not only add considerable confusion to the situation but would run the risk of actually diluting the rights already granted for our official languages. In my opinion, any action which is necessary to promote and protect French and English language rights in Canada should be dealt with in the specific context of the official languages scheme.
While agreeing that French and English rights are appropriately dealt with under the official languages policy, some have suggested that the language rights of those Canadians who
Canadian Human Rights
speak languages other than French or English should be dealt with in Bill C-25. I agree that discrimination against persons because they are identified as speaking a particular language cannot be tolerated. However, I would like to point out that Bill C-25 does prohibit discrimination on such a basis under the ground of "national or ethnic origin".
To suggest that the multitude of languages freely spoken by many Canadians be a prohibited ground of discrimination under this act would result in services, employment and accommodation having to be made available in all of those languages. While we all agree that people should not be discriminated against because of the particular inflection of their voice, and that in a free society we should be free to speak whatever language we want, it is another matter to impose a legal obligation for the provision of services and accommodation in those other languages.
It was discussed in committee and in representations to me that the ground of physical handicap be extended to areas of services, facilities and accommodation. I am very sympathetic to the problems faced by the physically handicapped in these areas and feel that action must be taken to alleviate them. To this end, Bill C-25 provides a mechanism for doing so. Under clause 22(1 )(h) a duty is placed on the commission to encourage the development and improvement of the arrangements for physically handicapped in the areas of services, facilities and accommodation. I feel that in the long run this method of dealing with the problems of the physically handicapped, taken together with the actions of other government departments and agencies, may prove to be more effective than including physical handicap as a prohibited ground on this expanded basis.
Throughout our history many in this country in politics, in the churches, in the trade unions and in voluntary organizations have fought against discrimination and for the equality of men and women. It is a story of which they can be proud, and much has been accomplished. Much, however, remains to be done. It is the essence of a free society that people are judged according to their own value and their own work. Where discrimination exists in Canada, it must be rooted out. When human rights are not conceded, when acts of discrimination take place in this country, we in Canada must take a stand against it, all the more so today with human rights under sustained attack throughout the world. Regardless of our various beliefs, we in this country all seek, I believe, the brotherhood of man. Today, in some small way by the passage of this bill we, as members of parliament of all parties, are taking an important step toward the establishment of that brotherhood in this country.


Before my good friend, the hon. member for Fundy-Royal (Mr. Fairweather) rises to address the House, would the minister answer a question? Does the minister interpret this measure as meaning that once it is passed into law, the reference to "the right to work" implies that when certain rules have been laid down by the union for the protection of the working man, a person should have the right
6200

June 2, 1977
Canadian Human Rights
to a job although he does not belong to a union? Would it be held that such a person was subject to discrimination?


Not entirely, in the sense of the question. The "right to work" is used, in the question, in the context of the right to work without the person concerned joining a union. That is not affected one way or the other by this legislation. What is provided for are regulations and laws related to employers and employee organizations-trade unions-to ensure that there is no discrimination in membership on the basis of any of the grounds mentioned in the legislation.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to clarify one matter. With regard to part IV there is some concern among the research community about the possibility that the legislation would also apply to statistical data banks as well as to administrative data banks. Does the legislation differentiate between the two? Is it the intention to place additional restrictions on statistical data which might affect the ability of researchers in their work?


That question is dealt with in the definitions section on page 28. The definitions in question are those of "administrative purposes" and "federal information banks". The right to privacy and the right to make corrections relate to federal information banks where information is in the hands of the government and is being used in relation to an individual for an administrative purpose. I would not categorize those banks as statistical banks of the kind about which the hon. member is asking. The definition of "information banks" is somewhat wider, though, and there is provision in the act that the designated minister shall have the duty of co-ordinating the operations of government information banks in an endeavour to limit, to the extent possible, consistent with good information, the information-gathering activities of government.


Mr. Speaker, I am glad the minister paused for a minute or two in his speech to reflect about those who through the years have been the pioneers of this legislation. I think the House would not mind being reminded that one of those pioneers was Mrs. Florence Bird-Anne Francis, to those who listened to her on the radio in other days-and the government of the late Lester B. Pearson who appointed Florence Bird and the commission out of which this legislation arose. I have been thinking lately about the propensity of hon. members to be somewhat verbal about their policy declarations. This may be fine, except it often means that others in legislative history are overlooked. We politicians are very much "instant" people, and I want to pause for a moment to pay tribute to Florence Bird and others in our history who have espoused the cause of human rights and, in particular, the rights of women in society.
It was pointed out in earlier stages of this debate that the provinces have in place human rights commissions. Part of the dilemma which arises in this field originates, from the fact that jurisdiction is shared by provincial and federal governments. This means we should be forewarned that just because the

apparatus is in place does not mean there will be an end of discrimination. I know the minister does not expect this, and very few of us do as we debate the issue in parliament today, but I make a plea to those who will be responsible for the working of this legislation to co-operate very closely with the human rights commissions in the various provinces. I hope that at an early stage they will seek an opportunity to gather experience of the day by day operations of these commissions as they work to end discrimination in our country.
As those who sat on the committee know, I was anxious that the matter of sexual orientation be faced squarely by the committee. I said in committee that it was a pity it was not faced. The minister has given an explanation. He is part of a majority government and, of course, he has an obligation to put forward those measures which he believes not only the government can sustain but that parliament will approve. Nevertheless, I think that if one believes, as the minister believes, that this parliament will be addressing itself very soon to discrimination which is inherent in sexual orientation, he is very optimistic indeed. That is why many of us, but not enough, were anxious to have the government face this issue when the bill was before committee.
I believe very sincerely that it is by being open about orientation that the activities of blackmailers and others who prey upon the propensities of people in society are brought to an end. The longer people have to keep their sexual propensities hidden, the more they are preyed upon by blackmailers. 1 believe this very much, and I had hoped that a bill having to do with human rights would have faced this issue squarely in the latter half of the seventies. But it is not to be. We made an effort in committee to bring this about, but we were unsuccessful.
If I may turn to the question of equal pay for work of equal value, many of us heard the cries of alarm, when the bill was in committee, regarding how difficult it would be to implement this concept. I have always wondered why people seem to think that Canada cannot pioneer jurisprudence. The concept of equal pay for work of equal value is a difficult one. It has been raised at ILO conventions, but there has not been very much experience of the concept. Would it not be rather refreshing if for once Canada pioneered this concept? I am sure we are able to develop a sensitive jurisprudence and formula of implementation of this concept.
I should like to speak for a moment about one other aspect of the act to which I think it is a pity the government did not address itself and which I had hoped the minister might mention during his speech. I refer to the fact that clause 63(2) continues the present discrimination against Indian women. The minister was very forthcoming in committee about this, and he did receive some publicity. When ministers are forthcoming there should certainly be publicity, since it is so rare.


That is new in itself.
June 2, 1977


Yes, that in itself is news. In any event, when we tested the comittee's will, the minister said that an amendment to abolish the section of the Indian Act which continues to discriminate against the Indian people would be considered. If I interpret the minister's remarks correctly, in his answer to the Indian people he gave them a signal to get on with the matter of making suggestions to parliament for an Indian Act which would not continue what is one of the outrages of modern society, namely, the blatant, legislated discrimination against women who are Indian.
I hope that this warning is noted by those in charge of framing a new Indian Act and those in the Indian community. As my hon. friend from Vancouver-Kingsway (Mrs. Holt) has pointed out, even the name "Indian Brotherhood" is in itself somewhat discriminatory, or is evidence of discrimination. I hope that the very eloquent cries of witnesses such as Mary Two Axe Early and others who came to the committee to tell of the injustices suffered by Indian women will be addressed very soon by this parliament.
A colleague of ours, the hon. member for Greenwood (Mr. Brewin)-he will not like what I am going to say because he is innately a modest man-was honoured the other day by Canadians of Japanese ancestry for the contribution he has made to human rights throughout his entire career.


Hear, hear!


I could not imagine a better opportunity for me to have parliament recognize his contribution than during third reading of a bill having to do with human rights.


Hear, hear!


The hon. member can, of course, speak for himself when I am through, if he likes. Isn't that generous of me? He recognizes the innate paradox-we should keep this in mind with all legislation having to do with rights-that when the events for which he has been honoured occurred during World War II, namely, what Canada did to Canadian citizens of Japanese ancestry, we did not have a Bill of Rights. Our neighbours have an entrenched bill of rights in every sense of that word, but despite that they dealt just as shabbily with Americans of Japanese ancestry as did we Canadians.
I think we should regard this occurrence as a lesson that in times of stress governments can find excuses for overstepping the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. This is why, although the members of my party welcome this legislation, we realize that you cannot legislate humankind to be just one with the other. I sincerely believe that a Bill of Rights and that human rights commissions are a signpost of civility placed in the statute books by those who hope to promote civility along with human rights. I recall, and I think it is well that the House recalls, that just because a bill is in place and has all the apparatus of royal assent does not necessarily mean that humankind is going, ipso facto, to treat others with civility. Nevertheless, it is an important signpost. I just want to repeat that I have been pleased to participate in this legislation.
Canadian Human Rights


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hon. member for Fundy-Royal (Mr. Fair-weather) for referring to my colleague from Greenwood (Mr. Brewin) regarding the great contribution he has made toward achieving human rights for all Canadians.


I am not ready for the Senate yet.


Indeed, no. On the subject of human rights, "exemplary" is the right word to describe the contribution made by people like Andrew Brewin to protect unpopular groups. Human rights legislation is not worth much if all we are going to do is protect people who happen to be very popular in a country at any particular time. I think it is to the great credit of the hon. member for Greenwood and others in the House that during the emergency of the Second World War, when clearly Japanese Canadians were one of the more unpopular groups in this country, they withstood as a matter of principle the unpopular decision they made to defend groups which were unpopular.
In the same vein, I want to give credit to the hon. member for Fundy-Royal for what he did to defend unpopular groups in Canada such as Japanese Canadians. The logic of what he said applies, as well, to legislation which does not include provisions having to do with sexual orientation. This group of people is also unpopular and it is not a popular move to bring forward legislation to protect that group. Nevertheless, sometimes there is a difference between what is right and what is popular. I would like to give credit to the hon. member who preceded me, because he has fought those kinds of battles in the past. He deserves credit for the work he has done in this field.


Hear, hear!


Human rights legislation at the federal level is long overdue. Our party will support this legislation. There are a couple of questions which I do not think the minister has answered properly. One of them was referred to by the hon. member for Fundy-Royal. What kind of human rights legislation is it in Canada when the rights of native women are not included? They are exempted from this legislation, as the minister knows full well. Under clause 63(2) a specific exemption is made for the sole purpose of continuing to discriminate against native women in Canada. That is a shame; it is wrong.
Human rights legislation has to protect everybody and must not provide exemptions here and there. I know the minister's answer is that it is premature and we are going to work this thing out. It is difficult enough to pass legislation in this House. When these amendments come forward they will be harder to pass then than they are now. Human rights legislation, to be worth its salt, must include groups which are clearly discriminated against. The minister has missed several groups.
We have mentioned the question of sexual orientation. We have mentioned the question of native women. The minister has missed the broad group of people who because of their

June 2, 1977
Canadian Human Rights
political affiliations or their political beliefs are discriminated against in their employment. 1 will not go into examples, but legions of people cannot get employment because of views they may have held. This infamous black list which has been dealt with in this House from time to time is an excellent example of people who, because of political views not necessarily held at this time but at one time, find themselves discriminated against in Canadian society.


They were never changed.


They were never charged, never accused nor convicted. It is the government which stands convicted in terms of that type of conduct. I thought this bill would have gone in some direction to solving that problem. The problem with the legislation is that the minister has not been forthcoming enough. He has not taken on the unpopular causes which are necessary for a valid piece of human rights legislation.
There were some changes in the bill at committee stage. I think they were positive changes. That is the reason there were not many amendments at report stage. The minister and the committee went along with increasing the penalty which I proposed at committee stage. I am referring to a very important section of the bill which would have hived off the whole question of employment discrimination to the Department of Labour and gutted the capacity of the new human rights commission to develop any jurisprudence around its operations. Our party was successful in having an amendment to that section passed at committee stage. It is to the committee's credit that they took a fairly objective look at the details of the bill.
The minister should look at an amendment which was not successful. 1 refer to clause 14, which deals in the negative. It reads:
It is not discriminatory practice if (a) any refusal, exclusion, expulsion, suspension, limitation, specification or preference in relation to any employment is established by an employer to be based on a bona fide occupational requirement-
In committee we attempted to have the onus as to what is bona fide placed upon the employer, since it is the employer who has to make that kind of decision. It is the employer, for example, who has been paying reduced rates to women over the years in order to maximize his operation, his profit, and hurt a very large section of the Canadian community.
The minister has been unwilling to change that fundamental question of dealing with the onus and dealing with whose responsibility it is to get from under that kind of exemption. The exemption should never have dealt with it in a negative way. It should have been the other around. As the hon. member for Vancouver-Kingsway (Mrs. Holt) pointed out, this is a handle to give the employer a chance to discriminate. All he has to do, basically is say that there is a bona fide occupational requirement that a lumber worker, for example, has to be male. Thus, he beats the meaning of the human rights legislation. The onus should be clearly, forcefully, and fully placed upon the employer to prove that it is bona fide in a court of law or the human rights commission.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I do not want to get involved in a dispute in any way, but in fairness the hon. member should point out that we did make an amendment to that section in committee, which provides that those exclusions have to be established by the employer to be bona fide. It is the government's view that that places the onus on the employer. That is a matter of dispute between the hon. member and myself, but there is no doubt as to the intention and the belief of the government.


It would have been easier to understand the minister's position on this clause if he had accepted clear words which would have placed the onus on the employer, instead of weaselling around with the clause and continuing to engage in what is a legal dispute between the two of us. The clause we proposed was perfectly clear; the onus was set and the employer had a legal responsibility to satisfy that onus. We can get into the legal question of whether the word "establishes" in fact means "onus". The minister could have been forthcoming on this clause making it very clear that employers were not going to be able to weasel around clause 14 and hide behind the question of bona fide, in the practice of employment.
The bill goes some distance in providing protection to some groups. I wish we could say "all groups" and I wish we could say that the minister had the courage to protect the unpopular under this legislation. I must say that neither he nor his government has had that courage. There are times in this House when playing politics with a bill as important as this one is wrong. Our party will support it because it does go some distance in protecting people who are discriminated against as a result of their employment. But we should have seen a little more forthrightness by the minister in the bill.


Mr. Speaker, I really did not intend to speak on this bill.


Order, please. I am sorry that I allowed the hon. member to take the floor, but I have to call it one o'clock at this time. I will now leave the chair until two o'clock. The hon. member may continue his remarks after routine proceedings this afternoon.
At one o'clock the House took recess.


AFTER RECESS

The House resumed at 2 p.m.
June 2, 1977
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the provisions of Standing Order 43. My motion is prompted by the collapse of the Kitimat pipeline project and the consequent plans to ship very nearly all of the Alaskan crude to the Cherry Point, Washington refinery through the strait of Juan de Fuca and the Georgia straits. In view of the grim threat of an ecological catastrophe which the shipment of perhaps ultimately one million barrels of oil a day presents to the British Columbia coastine and fishing grounds, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Perth-Wilmot (Mr. Jarvis):
That the House views the threat posed to the British Columbia environment by the massive transshipment of oil with concern and calls upon the government to enter into immediate negotiations with the United States to divert oil tanker routes away from the west coast of Vancouver Island and Queen Charlotte Islands and terminate at Port Angeles, Washington.


The presentation of such a motion for debate pursuant to Standing Order 43 can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the terms of Standing Order 43. In view of this government's failure to act upon the request of the Canadian broiler producers to create a national broiler marketing board, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Joliette (Mr. LaSalle):
That the Minister of Agriculture explain to this House and to the Canadian broiler producers why this Liberal government has failed to set up a national broiler marketing board.


The presentation of such a motion for debate pursuant to Standing Order 43 can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.
The Canadian Economy AIR TRANSPORT


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity, arising out of reports that the cost of freight to remote northern communities in the eastern Arctic has recently risen by 50 per cent on the only air carrier for several of the towns in the Baffin region.
Given that air freight provides the only means of providing fresh produce and other essentials to these areas that are already paying over 60 per cent more for most consumer goods than in southern Canada, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That this House urges the government to provide freight subsidies on essential goods that would bring the cost of essential goods to the same price range as in southern Canada.


The presentation of such a motion for debate pursuant to Standing Order 43 can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the terms of Standing Order 43, I request the unanimous consent of the House to present a motion dealing with an important and urgent matter.
In view of the generally unstable economic situation throughout the country, and the fact that it is the direct result of the inflation which has been plaguing us for a number of years; in view of the resulting unemployment and the attitude within government circles to the effect that all the disastrous consequences of our economic situation are to be blamed on the constitutional uncertainty created since November 15, which view discredits the cause of the emancipation and fulfilment of Quebec, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Richmond (Mr. Beaudoin):
That the government order an inquiry into the specific causes of higher unemployment with a view to finding the ways and means of remedying it.


Order. The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Pursuant to the terms of Standing Order 43, the motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

June 2, 1977
External Affairs AGRICULTURE


Mr. Speaker, 1 rise under Standing Order 43 to ask for the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion.
Considering the unfair competition against Canadian broiler producers these last three years through low price imports which increased by 671 per cent from 1974 to 1976, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Elgin (Mr. Wise):
That the House unanimously give the government leave to establish immediately a national broiler marketing board to ensure Canadian consumers the presence of this food in large quantities and at a stable and reasonable price, instead of having to trust uncertain imports without any guarantee of stability, which will inevitably happen if Canadian broiler producers are on the verge of bankruptcy.


This matter is settled.


If it is settled, I am pleased about it, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. The House has heard the terms of the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, such motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity concerning the reunification of a Canadian family. In light of the federal government's lack of action in reuniting Mr. and Mrs. Geczi with three children who are now being retained against their will by Hungarian authorities behind the iron curtain, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Edmonton Centre (Mr. Paproski):
That this House urges the federal government and the Department of External Affairs to express to the Hungarian government the fact that it has no right to decertify Canadian citizens or to violate the Helsinki accords and to demand the immediate reunification of the Geczi family.


Order, please. Such a motion can be presented only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs, and it concerns the news that with the collapse of the Kitimat pipeline application we can expect nearly all of the oil to pass by the Queen Charlottes and through the Strait of Juan de Fuca and Georgia Strait, a massive environmental threat, in return for no additions to our energy supplies. In view of the fact that the Cherry Point refinery in Washington already has one oil spill to its credit, and for the benefit of the city of White Rock, will the minister tell the House whether he intends to open discussions with the United States with a view to reducing environmental risks by bringing in oil to Port Angeles, a far safer alternative to Cherry Point?


Mr. Speaker, with regard to the announcement yesterday, there has not been an application filed. Therefore, other than the declared intentions of the operators we do not know precisely what kind of proposal is going to be put forward. However, presumably the hon. member's conclusion 