Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity pursuant to Standing Order 43. Yesterday the Minister of State (Small Business) (Mr. Marchand) announced that the government had seen the merits of the argument put by the official opposition on behalf of western grain producers and was reconsidering the need for the metric measures "tonne" and "hectare". We were distressed to hear that the bill would not be amended but that proclamation would be delayed for an indeterminate period. Because we believe the House should not be asked to waste its time debating provisions which may or may not be proclaimed, and because we think it repugnant to be asked to provide government negotiators with the power to blackmail producers, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Towers):
That this House declines to deal with legislation which may not be proclaimed, and requests that the metric conversion bill be returned to committee so that further testimony may be heard and ill-advised provisions deleted.


Order, please. Pursuant to Standing Order 43 the presentation of such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In light of the study released today by Statistics Canada which projects scandalously high and growing levels of youth unemployment as a result of nearly 500,000 full-time students entering the labour force this summer, and since we already have a national official youth unemployment rate of 15.6 per cent, giving Canada the highest
level of youth unemployment among the industrialized countries of the world, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That the Minister of Manpower and Immigration be instructed to prepare and table in this House as soon as possible a comprehensive plan of action designed to reduce the level of youth unemployment; that this plan should include details of specific programs for relieving youth unemployment, job creation budgets and the projected job creation impact of the programs; and that these details include targeted levels of reduction in youth unemployment over the next five years and the means which the government proposes to use to reach those targets.


Order, please. Standing Order 43 requires the unanimous consent of the House for presentation of such motion. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43, I seek the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that all the members of the Canadian Life Insurance Association who have written to me strongly oppose the new budget proposals the Minister of Finance (Mr. Macdonald) brought forward on March 31 concerning the taxation of life insurance death benefits, on the ground that these proposals are unfair to those who prefer to provide themselves for the financial security of their families through life insurance policies rather than let governments support them, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Champlain (Mr. Matte):
That the House urge the Minister of Finance (Mr. Macdonald) to take any step he may deem necessary to withdraw the new proposals he put forward in his last budget concerning the taxing of life insurance benefits, so that the funds created through life insurance policies may serve only for the purpose of the insured, namely provide a minimum level of comfort.


Order, please. The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

May 4, 1977
Labour Conditions


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the provisions of Standing Order 43. In light of the complaints by the Manitoba trucking industry that the government's postpak program is forcing the private trucking industry into direct competition with a government subsidized program and that the post office does not have to operate under the terms and conditions of carriage set by provincial regulatory boards, furthermore since a tender has been called for the furnishing of two one-ton trucks to provide service between Winnipeg and Thunder Bay, a route which is serviced by several daily airflights, four buses and five truck lines, during a time of energy conservation and supposed cutbacks in government spending, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Brandon-Souris (Mr. Dinsdale):
That this House direct the Postmaster General to review the postpak program and to remove any postpak services which are in direct competition with the private trucking industry.


The provisions of Standing Order 43 require the unanimous consent of the House for the presentation of such a motion. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43,1 rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity concerning the labour dispute between the 115 Radio-Mutuel employees and the management of this radio station which serves the Montreal, Quebec City, Sherbrooke and Trois-Rivieres areas.
Since the station management refuses to negotiate and resorts to such illegal procedures as the refusal by the management of CJMS-Montreal to post the official list of employees entitled to vote, which is contrary to the provisions of the Canada Labour Code, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Oshawa-Whitby (Mr. Broadbent):
That the Minister of Labour (Mr. Munro) assure the House that the 115 employees of those four radio stations who have been trying to form a union for eight years be treated fairly by the Department of Labour and the Canada Labour Council.


Order, please. The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to Standing Order 43, such motion

requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Fisheries and the Environment. It relates to a report sponsored by his department entitled "Determination of probabilities of oil spills in Canadian Arctic waters". I thank the minister's office for having made a copy of this report available to me last night. The report, which the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development denied ever seeing when he replied to questions in the House last Friday, indicates blow-out probabilities in the Arctic in connection with our drilling there and makes numerous recommendations to deal with the risk. Can the minister explain why the report was not made known to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development at least before last Friday, particularly when it was apparently delivered to the Department of the Environment on or about March 28, over five weeks ago, and in particular because it is the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development who has the responsibility for agreeing to summer drilling permits in the Beaufort Sea area.


Mr. Speaker, if the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development did not know of the report, he was in exactly the same position I was. I knew that a report had been commissioned some time ago, but I did not know that the report was ready. I do not know the exact delivery date. I took notice of the report when I came to this House on either this past Monday or Friday of last week. Therefore, the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development was in exactly the same position as I was.
I might say to the hon. member that the reason the report was not immediately made available is that it has not yet been translated-that is why I cannot table it. It was in these circumstances that I circulated copies to those members who are interested. It is not a secret report. It was being made ready for publication and release.


Mir. Bill Jarvis (Perth-Wilmot): I hope the minister is not telling us that it is acceptable to him that a report dealing with this specific issue of oil-risk blow-outs, should sit for five weeks, particularly when the cabinet is considering the issuance of drilling permits. He will recall that press stories last week indicated a risk factor of one in 300 and the report shows that this figure is, indeed, correct. But that relates to risks from all kinds of blow-outs-oil, water and gas both minor, major and intermediate. Would the minister confirm, because the report is written in technical language, that according to this study the risk factor of a major oil blow-out, that is a blow-out of more than 50,000 barrels-the North Sea blowout involved roughly 250,000 barrels-is one chance in one million? Are the authors of the report saying that the risk factor of a major oil spill in the Beaufort Sea is one in one million?
Mr. Speaker, I do not know that the report was sitting for five weeks. It was, indeed, dated in March but a report of this size-it was a rather voluminous report-does take some time before becoming available to the department. Anyway, I made it available as soon as it was available to me. As for the risk factors, I tried to understand the arithmetic of these experts and with the help of my officials I came to the conclusion that the risk factors as reflected in the report-and I must emphasize that the risk factor is not one uniform element-there is a risk of gas blow-outs or oil blow-outs, oil leakage, and so on-that the report does not "infirm" the figures for risk factors which were given to cabinet when the decision was made a year ago.


May I direct my final supplementary to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development who may not, as of this date, have received the report. I do not know. Having regard to the statement by the authors of the report that by far the most important single factor in blow-out risk is human error, and despite the fact that the minister said last Friday that the report was not the subject of consideration before permits were granted, will the minister consider the implications of this report, now that it is available, when making his recommendation to cabinet concerning the five-year drilling permits which may or may not be issued to Canmar and Dome?


I do not recall ever having said that such a report would not be the subject of consideration before making a decision.


You said you had never heard of it.
Oral Questions


I had never heard of it at that time, but we have many reports before us now, all relevant to the subject matter and they will all be taken into consideration. A report such as that to which the hon. member refers will be given very serious attention.


Since it is basically the responsibility of the minister to make a decision on drilling in the Beaufort Sea in conjunction with the Minister of the Environment, can the hon. gentleman advise us what co-ordination and co-operation exists between himself and the Minister of the Environment, bearing in mind the fact that the Department of the Environment apparently received this report some time in March and the minister says he had no knowledge of it on April 29. Since April 29, has the minister met with the Minister of the Environment to discuss this report or to discuss drilling in the Beaufort Sea?


There is a very good co-operation between the Minister of the Environment and myself. We met last Friday morning before coming into the House to consider this subject matter and we have had further meetings.


The hon. gentleman said last Friday that he knew nothing about the report. Does he plan to hold a further meeting with regard to it? It states that one of the biggest problems, and one which the authors admittedly did not tackle, arises from oil spills from tankers. Since delivery of oil by tanker is one of the alternative ways of bringing frontier oil south, would the minister undertake to supply a report on the risk we face by using tankers to carry oil?


Mr. Speaker, when I said that I met with the Minister of the Environment last Friday I meant with respect to the question of drilling in the Beaufort Sea, not with respect to one particular report. We discussed the entire question. With respect to the report the hon. member is talking about now, I will look into that possibility.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Yesterday the Prime Minister said in the House that he had not been obliged to

May 4, 1977
Oral Questions
make a commitment to President Carter on the September 1 date regarding Canada's position on a northern pipeline, but that he did so because it was in Canada's interests to make a decision "lest the opportunity be removed from us". Considering that this decision by the government of Canada will be one of the most important since the war, and considering that President Carter can get a 90 day extension beyond September 1 before he must make a recommendation in his country, would the Prime Minister tell the House whether he has suggested to President Carter that the proposed deadline for a government of Canada decision be extended?


Mr. Speaker, this question was asked before and I assured the House that President Carter was fully aware of his rights under this 90 day extension. Of course, if we cannot make up our minds in time we will ask him to use this 90 day extension, but I want the House to realize that there is pressure upon the President to decide as soon as possible. The difficulties that they had this winter with the cold and fuel shortages have put great pressure upon the administration to make an early decision. That is all I wanted to convey to the House. Of course, we would like to have a much longer period of time, but there is always the possibility that the United States would go ahead without us and it is our view that it is better to decide what is in Canada's interests than to be faced with a fait accompli.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I was hoping that since the question was last asked the Prime Minister and the government would have come to its senses and requested an extension of the time. Since the Prime Minister said yesterday in this House that "we must move within a certain time frame", I ask the Prime Minister specifically whether he would tell the House if President Carter has set this time frame and informed the government of Canada that unless it opted for either of the two internal pipe-line routes the United States would proceed with the El Paso route. If this is the case, does he not acknowledge that this is a form of blackmail coming from the United States to the government of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, one would seem to have a very poor understanding of the realities to make this allegation. The leader of the New Democratic Party should understand that the El Paso route is the less preferred one for the United States but that it is a possible one. If they are faced with procrastination or the incapability of the Canadian government and parliament to decide, they are liable to go for the less favoured route.


It's the government that's incapable.


Oh, for Christ's sake shut up. Obviously the New Democratic Party is not only misinformed but uninterested in this subject.


Mr. Speaker, considering that the Alcan study has been compressed into a few months and that the proceedings of the National Energy Board have been speeded

up almost beyond comprehension, and considering that this decision is going to have a monumental impact on all of Canada's financial decisions in a few years ahead, quite apart from the environmental impact in the north, does the Prime Minister think it is so absurd in terms of Canada's interests to request in a calm, cool and serious way to the President of the United States that they postpone the existing deadline to beyond September 1? A lot of Canadians do not think that suggestion is so ridiculous.


It is not ridiculous, Mr. Speaker. I am just suggesting to the House that the President of the United States knows his duties. There are political pressures on him to come up with an early decision.


Do you know your duty?


Mr. Andr£ Fortin (Lotbiniere): Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the President of the Treasury Board, I would like to put a question to the right hon. Prime Minister.
On one hand, in its report of last November, the Treasury Board agreed to the principle of variable timetables for public servants in the assessment of departmental programs and, on the other hand, the 1,200 members of the translation group of the professional institute have now been legally on strike since March 29 for this very reason. Mr. Speaker, the conciliation report agrees with this principle and recommends inclusion of a flexible hour clause in the collective agreement. But, the Treasury Board refuses to include this principle in the agreement. Would the Prime Minister tell the House whether he is aware of this situation and what he intends to do to put an end to this strike and ensure equitable treatment for these translators? Would he urge the Treasury Board to sign as soon as possible this agreement endorsed by these union members?
Mr. Speaker, I will discuss this matter with the President of the Treasury Board as soon as possible.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. Some recent but only partial national information from Statistics Canada indicate that there will be more than 120,000 young Canadians joining the work force this year who will not find job opportunities available to them and will
May 4, 1977

be joining the 400,000 young unemployed Canadians. Will the minister now tell the House whether he has any long-term strategy to provide young Canadians with meaningful, longterm and secure job opportunities and not just band-aid measures?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member should not concentrate only on the short-term measures that have already been announced. There are funds under Young Canada Works, the Student Summer Employment Assistance Program, the JET program with summer and winter components. In addition to that, under our Careers Canada, Careers Provinces and Choices, we are endeavouring to bridge the gap between the two, between leaving school and entering the work force, by giving the kind of counselling, training and in some cases job experience that is needed by young people to help them get into the work force.
In addition to that, I have had the opportunity to visit with my counterparts in both Italy and France to see if they had come up with any new ideas or something on a permanent basis that might be useful. Senator Humphrey in the United States has highlighted his own particular bill with the fact that this is not a parochial or local problem but is a national problem to all western industrialized societies.


You are an amazing man!


Mr. Speaker, in view of the fact that in the province of Ontario they are, per capita, giving more money than the federal government to summer students, and in view of the fact that in 1974 and 1975 the federal government poured in $87 million and this year is pouring in some $96 million- and when you consider inflation, that is less-why is the federal government not putting as much emphasis and paying in as much funds this year when unemployment is higher than in the past?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is quite selective in his statistics. He could examine, under the Canada Manpower Industrial Training Program, the funds that are spent there. In the large measure, the young people of this country take advantage of that particular program, which is a permanent ongoing program. Given the funds that are available and the obligation we have to young people, government certainly has a role to play. We are playing it to the best of our ability. That does not mean to say with more money we could not do a better job.


Mr. Speaker, 1 would like to direct my question to the Minister of Justice. My question relates to a scandalous situation in the administration
Oral Questions
of the income tax law. I wrote the minister on March 23, and I brought this up in the House on April 21. Can the minister tell us what action he and his colleagues are taking to collect millions of dollars income tax interest for the taxation years 1950 and 1954 by one John C. Doyle, formerly a Canadian citizen now a fugitive from justice in the United States and Canada who has owed this money since those years, 27 years and 24 years ago, and whether there has been an appeal pending before the Supreme Court of Canada for the last seven years without any action by the government to pursue it? Will the minister bring us up to date on what action has been taken to rectify this situation of gross negligence at the best?


What about Hal Banks?


Mr. Speaker, I do not accept the allegations or the hypothesis contained in the question put by the hon. member or the remarks in his speech in the House the other day. I have reviewed the proceedings in these matters with my officials. They have been proceeding at a pace that the rules of the court allow, except in one case where adjournment was agreed to from the winter list of the Supreme Court of Canada to the spring list, which should result in that case being heard in the spring of this year. Briefly, the officers of my department are instructed, and have been for some time, to proceed with these matters as fast as the rules of the court allow.


Is the hon. gentleman suggesting that the Supreme Court of Canada is lax in its hearing of cases involving taxes and that a seven year delay is normal and in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Court in collecting income tax? Surely the minister is not suggesting that.


Hear, hear!


No. Of course, the Supreme Court of Canada deals with its cases diligently and as fast as it possibly can. One of the cases to which the hon. member refers cannot, however, be heard for procedural reasons by the Supreme Court until a decision is rendered in an allied but different case by the Federal Court.


Will the hon. gentleman inform the House as to how many income tax cases are still pending from the years 1950 and 1954?


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Secretary of State for External Affairs of which I have given him notice. Is the hon. gentleman in a

May 4, 1977
Oral Questions
position now to tell the House anything about the current situation regarding Douglas Newby, the Canadian journalist who was lost last year in Angola while on an assignment for Paris Match?
that it cease to make available to Metro Toronto cine-clubs the film "The Country is Calm" which denounces the violence of the Chilean military junta? If so, how can he justify such an intervention?


There is nothing new to report on that particular case except that there have been periodic inquiries and various other efforts undertaken. I do not have anything beyond what I believe is already known to the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, there was no such intervention. The institute in question, the Goethe Institute, is a private organization with no connection with our department whatsoever.


In view of the statement in a letter from Mr. Riley, the vice-consul of our embassy in Kinshasa, on June 16, 1976 with respect to Mr. Newby that:
There is a Cuban embassy in Kinshasa but they will not be in a position to be of any help to us
Would the minister say why this would be the case since Cuba was so prominent at that time in Angola and whether in fact there have been official representations made by the government of Canada to Cuba-which has been the beneficiary of much financing and foreign aid from us-as to why they are so unco-operative, if in fact that is the case?


I think the hon. member would be aware that since the gentleman in question was involved in a country other than Cuba, namely Angola in this case, the normal forms of representation, and indeed the only ones that can be undertaken officially, are with the government of the country concerned. Therefore, there was no way in which we could make direct inquiries from the Cuban government, or indeed involve them directly in any way.


As a final supplementary, Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the minister again if he would not pursue this matter because, while Cuba may not have been officially involved, it is well known unofficially that they had some
12,000	troops and were responsible for the situation in which Mr. Newby was killed.


I appreciate the hon. member's comment, but I repeat the point that I think it would be quite inappropriate, and also non-productive, to talk to what is essentially a foreign government about the whereabouts of a Canadian citizen, or anyone else for that matter, in another country. Therefore, we have, to the best of our ability, exhausted all the avenues open to us. There may be some others that we might be able to initiate. I am not aware of them and if the hon. member has some ideas on it, I would be glad to hear them.


Talk to Cuba anyway.
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
Can he tell the House whether it is true that his department made representations to the Goethe Institute in Toronto so

* *
*


Mr. Speaker, I wish to put a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
Since broiler producers bitterly complain, first that prices are not very satisfactory and, second, that there are massive imports from the U.S.A., can the minister tell the House whether these imports were allowed as a result of discussions he had with the Minister of Agriculture who hold that they are necessary to provide good food for Canadians?


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately I am unaware of the problem raised by the hon. member. However, I shall try to give him an answer tomorrow.

* *


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. Although my question covers several departments and would ordinarily be directed to the Prime Minister, I am a little afraid this afternoon to direct a question to him for fear he blaspheme once more. I ask the minister this. I understand that his department is working with other departments with a view to bringing about some arrangements to meet the serious threat of drought conditions, particularly in the Palliser triangle and also in other parts of western Canada. Would he let the House know what is being done at present? Then I will ask him-if I have the opportunity, Mr. Speaker- in a subsequent question to particularize what is being done.


Mr. Speaker, precisely what the department has been doing over the past few weeks, even prior to that, is to work in close co-operation with provincial governments in the Prairies. More recently we have set up a working group
May 4, 1977

between departments here in Ottawa which is also working in full co-operation with the provincial governments. We will be proposing for cabinet consideration some time tomorrow a plan that, I suppose, will gain support, and we will offer it to the provincial governments in the Prairies in the hope that they will be able to face the situation when it is presented.


That is a very encouraging report. 1 would like to ask the minister one or two particular questions having regard to the potential national tragedy which is within the realm of possibility. I have seen these things happen over a period of 74 years since we went to western Canada. Will the minister say what is being done to provide new wells and larger storage facilities to cover fodder for the cattle which will remain in the drought areas and, second, is it within contemplation and consideration by the government to pay the freight to transport fodder supplies to the areas where supplies are needed or, where the drought is the heaviest, to transport cattle to greener pastures in other parts of the western provinces?


Mr. Speaker, all the matters and proposals that the hon. gentleman refers to have been under intensive consideration. What we will be proposing jointly with the provincial government is going to be along those lines. More than that, we would suggest that a deep well be put in place and we will also have a program that will check water areas. We have already discussed with the province the possibility of cattle herds being moved around to places where the grass is in better shape. We are prepared to join with the province in sharing the cost of many of these activities.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the minister for his explanation-thorough and complete. I would ask him whether the original plan suggested by the Minister of Agriculture, that he was going to pray for rain, has been departed from?


It is working. It is raining a little in Winnipeg today.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development who is responsible for national parks. Because of the severe drought conditions that exist in western Canada and the serious effect it is having on our cattle industry, is the government considering making grazing land in our national parks available on a temporary basis as was the practice several years ago?


Mr. Speaker, I have already taken steps to request an inventory of possible grazing land in the
Oral Questions
national parks from my officials. I am told that at the present time they do not believe there is a lot because circumstances have changed since the 1930's when parkland was used for that purpose. We are, however, putting together an inventory which might be helpful.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question. Unless there is rain in the next week or couple of weeks it will mean a drastic reduction in cattle herds in the west because of lack of grazing. When this inventory is taken, could we have an answer from the department within the next two weeks because the situation is very serious and becoming drastic?


Mr. Speaker, I shall try to rush that work.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and the Environment which concerns the Beaufort Sea. The figures that have been thrown around the House range from one in 15,000 as risk and one in 300 as risk, although one year's drilling experience shows that out of two wells drilled, one has blown so the risk is therefore really one in two. The report of March 1977 that the minister referred to in previous answers contained information supplied almost totally by the two major operators in the Beaufort Sea, Imperial Oil and Dome Petroleum. Would the minister advise what his department has done to obtain objective information on spill risk outside of the two majors who have a large axe to grind in terms of getting renewal of the permit?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure that the hon. member is careful with the facts and he would not want to leave the impression that the report dealt only with statistics of blowouts in the northern area but in fact covered a good part of the world's drilling for oil and gas. I have had the other point which the hon. member makes, checked by my able parliamentary secretary. It is exactly because my officials felt that they wanted additional information and were questioning the authors of the report-I underline that this is a report which was commissioned and was not done by in-house people-that the report transmitted to me was delayed. It was felt it was somewhat incomplete. Obviously, the report has to be tested against the knowledge and expertise gained and accumulated in my department. I would want to have more than the information provided by one of the companies before I made a recommendation on something as important as this.

May 4, 1977
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, the second part of my question dealt with the capacity to clean up. Does the minister intend to make a decision before he has determined whether his department or any other has the capacity to clean up an oil spill and before the equipment is available and in place?


Mr. Speaker, there is some knowledge and some capacity to clean up. 1 do not think the House would want to think we are starting from zero on this. The fact is we are not satisfied with some of the drilling activities that took place last year. My officials have recommended a good list of changes-20 of them if my memory is correct. I will be insisting that inspectors from my department be much more closely involved if the permit to drill this season is given. We are still working with the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development on a position paper which will be put to Cabinet.

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
Considering the unusual number of bankruptcies among textile companies in Canada and more particularly the layoff of over 200 employees in the textile industry in the constituency of Langelier, could the minister tell the House what steps he is considering to improve the situation, and when the

government is going to meet its commitments as far as textile imports in Canada are concerned?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member has followed the debates in the House he will know that on November 29 last we announced a textile and clothing policy by which we were reducing imports to the 1975 levels. If he was in the House during the months of December and January, he could see that many hon. members from his own party blamed me because of these import quotas. Furthermore, I want to tell the hon. member that the policy has been underway since the month of November, and that its effects are already becoming noticeable. Some areas are a little weaker but we are very optimistic and with time we believe the situation will be corrected. I hope the hon. member is going to talk to his colleagues on this subject.


Mr. Speaker, obviously the minister is not taking my question seriously. I shall refrain from putting a supplementary.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member knows nothing about the problem.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Twice last week the question of further press revelations about the Poly-sar controversy arose in the House and on both occasions government spokesmen, including the Prime Minister, merely indicated they were taking notice of the question. I gather a report has now been received from CDC officials. Could the Prime Minister tell the House what is in the report and when we can see it?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member will have heard my colleague the Minister of Finance indicate to the House that he was going to have the matter looked into. He has received the report; I have not.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary question to the Prime Minister along the same lines as the one directed to him last Thursday and stemming from the innuendos, rumours and other press revelations in regard to the Polysar matter and because CDC officials have been involved in this sorry mess from the beginning. Is the government considering asking the RCMP to investigate this matter, now that there is a serious question of contingent liability on the part of Polysar at the suit of Dutch officials?
May 4, 1977


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member said in his question, this is largely a question of rumour and innuendo and I am not sure if the RCMP would be prepared to hunt down every rumour. But if the hon. member has any serious allegations to make I am sure the Solicitor General would be happy to transmit them to the RCMP.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.
As the company Bombardier-MLW obtained from the federal government guarantees and financial assistance for the manufacturing of locomotives to be delivered to Bangladesh and Pakistan, and of parts for the experimental trains involved in the American project Amtrack; and as Bombardier laid off 650 workers at its Montreal plant on April 7 last because it refuses to include in the collective agreement a provision ensuring the physical safety of plant employees, when at least 576 accidents occurred in those plants of which two were fatal, can the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce tell the House whether he intends to revise the terms of that type of contract through which the federal government grants financial help in such a way that the companies which benefit from them are required to respect all the laws governing employer-employee relations and to recognize the employer's obligation to ensure the physical safety of its employees?


Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased that the hon. member recognizes that the federal government does a lot for the development of plants that are export oriented in Quebec. Naturally, I too am concerned about the safety of the workers, but the question of working conditions in Quebec plants falls within the jurisdiction of the provincial government. I trust the Quebec Minister of Labour will assume his responsibilities with regard to that labour conflict.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs.
Considering that the future member for Verdun, Mrs. Pierrette Lucas, is in the House today, that this riding has some common problems with my own riding of Hochelaga, and that
Oral Questions
the hon. minister did not answer the question I directed to him on April 19, as recorded on page 4760 of Hansard I will repeat my question because he assured me that he intended to second my efforts in the area of non profit corporations-


Order, please. The hon. member for Vancouver South.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs, to whom I have given notice of my question. Yesterday the Mayor of Vancouver blasted the federal government for its delay in announcing a decision on a $6 million urban demonstration fund, most of which was earmarked for the city of Vancouver. Two important city projects are being delayed and are in danger. They are the farmers' market and fishermen's wharf, and the required renovations for the Kitsilano Pool, contract work on which was supposed to begin on May 1. Can the parliamentary secretary advise the House why there has been no decision made?


Mr. Speaker, I have received from the parliamentary secretary the notice he had taken from the hon. member. I can tell him that a decision in this regard will be taken very soon. A sum of money has already been allocated to a project in co-operation with the University of British Columbia for an audio-visual program after the Habitat Conference. Now, with regard to certain other demonstration projects, a decision will be taken very soon. The hon. member, like his colleague for Hochelaga, will surely agree with me that we are always happy to have visitors in the galleries. That does not necessarily mean that they will come and sit on the floor of the House.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct my supplementary question to the minister? Since the Mayor of Vancouver blamed the delay on the British Columbia caucus of the federal Liberal Party, because Liberal members cannot agree on how the moneys shall be allocated, can the minister confirm if the mayor's allegation is correct?
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I have the feeling that the consultation line between the British Columbia Liberal caucus and the office of the minister concerned is a lot more direct and a lot more constant than with the Mayor of Vancouver. I do not know where he got his information, but it is totally erroneous.
5278

May 4, 1977
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that a member of the Marxist-Leninist Party of Canada named Andstein has been elected as the head of the Halifax local of the Canadian Union of Postal Workers and that Mr. Andstein ran in 1974 as a member of the Communist party, a party which is dedicated to the destruction of Canada's political system and, if so, is the Prime Minister prepared to recommend to the union that people who advocate the violent overthrow of our democratic system should not be office holders in the postal workers' union?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know any of the facts alleged by the hon. member, including whether or not the person mentioned was elected in a regular fashion. I must remind the hon. member that there is no law against the holding of Communist views in Canada.


Some people even hold Liberal views.


If the workers choose to elect such a person, I think the responsibility is on their heads and not on the hon. member's or on mine.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In view of Mr. Andstein's views would the Prime Minister consider establishing a system whereby government supervised elections for postal union leaders could be held by secret ballot, and whereby the result could only be determined by a majority of the union membership voting by secret ballot?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows, this kind of legislation exists in certain provinces and does not exist in certain others. I would not consider legislation which was directed at any one union, but the subject matter is worthy of consideration and I will look into it.


Mr. Speaker, could the Secretary of State tell us the name of the new director of theatre for the National Arts Centre?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I am happy to tell the House that this afternoon M. Jean Gascon will be appointed as director of theatre activities of the National Arts Centre. He will be supported by Mr. John Wood, formerly of the Neptune Theatre, and M. Hebert who is at the moment directing French theatre activities at the National Arts Centre. I am sure that members of the House will join with me in welcoming the decision of this great artist
(Mr. Ouellct.]
and distinguished Canadian to undertake these responsibilities. This is another step toward the establishment of a great national theatre in Ottawa which will serve not only the Ottawa area but the regions of the country as well.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Defence, whom I advised before the beginning of the question period of my intention to raise this question. In view of certain allegations made by members of the minister's own department pertaining to changes having to be made in the communications security system as a result of top secret NATO documents having been made available to Communist Chinese officials, could the minister either confirm or deny the allegations? If he denies them, can he advise this House what effect if any these mishandled documents have had on the responsibilities of his department as they pertain to NATO security?


Mr. Speaker, the documents in question were NATO documents handled through a subcontractor. There are no classified Canadian Armed Forces or Department of National Defence documents involved. So far as any change in the system is concerned that would have to be handled by the North Atlantic alliance and not by Canada, and any cost incurred in that regard would be borne by the NATO infrastructure program.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Can the minister advise the House if any such changes are being contemplated as a result of the mishandling of these documents?


Mr. Speaker, I am unable to give an indication one way or the other.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Labour may I direct my question to the acting Minister of Labour? It concerns the Radio-Mutuel strike in Quebec which has been going on since January. In January 81 per cent of the workers concerned voted for a union and in March, on a second vote, 61 per cent so voted. I ask the acting minister this: Why is the Canada Labour Relations Board denying the democratic rights of those workers to have a union by ordering a third vote on May 6. Is this not a dangerous precedent to set, and does it not go against the democratic principles of the Canada Labour Code?
May 4, 1977

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, first it should be specified that the employees at the five stations were on an illegal strike, because none of them were certified. Secondly, last week a vote was ordered in two of those stations. These votes will be held within three weeks and some decisions could be taken in that connection. Finally, Mr. Speaker, we do not intend to intervene since the union members have decided not to negotiate as long as the five stations are not recognized. Now if one of the parties asks for that, the Department of Labour would intervene to assist them. However, nobody has asked our department to intervene and the unions do not want to negotiate as long as the five stations are not unionized and recognized by the CRTC.


Mr. Speaker, the strike has nothing to do with whether or not they want to unionize.


Mr. Speaker, I want to put a supplementary question to the Minister of Communications.
The licence given to Radio-Mutuel states that every day local stations must give local news every half-hour, and since the beginning of the strike there have been only three bulletins daily at CJTR and none at CJRS. How is it that Radio-Mutuel still has its licence since it does not meet the terms stated on it?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows, those matters are under the jurisdiction of the CRTC. If the CRTC, when broadcasting licences are renewed, believes that the owner of the licence did not, during the period for which it was granted, meet the terms attached to it, it decides whether or not the licence should be renewed. Accordingly, those matters are examined when licences are granted or renewed. I could refer the question to the CRTC, but as Minister of Communications, I am not in a position to give satisfaction to the hon. member as regards his question.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege. I am sorry the Prime Minister was required to leave the chamber shortly after three o'clock, because unfortunately it involves him.
I raise this matter with a heavy heart in as much as what I have to say relates to a statement made by the Prime Minister,
Oral Questions
the leader of our country and the principal member of the cabinet. During an exchange that took place between members of the New Democratic Party and the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister stopped his response in the course of his answer. I heard, and members on my side also heard distinctly the Prime Minister say, "Shut up, for Christ's sake".


Oh, oh!


In my estimation and submission, this constitutes not only unparliamentary language, of which we expect much better from the Prime Minister of our country, but it is an insult to this institution if these remarks remain on the record. I think we understand that the parry and thrust of parliamentary activity involves high spirits, some tension and sometimes involves people saying things in the heat of the moment. However, I suggest that blasphemy has absolutely no place in the House of Commons and is contrary to every tradition that we have in this place. I suggest that the Prime Minister be asked specifically to withdraw those words. I know he is not here, but I suggest that he should withdraw those words and apologize to the House for using them within parliament.


Hear, hear!


If he is not prepared to do so, I suggest that my motion be acted upon and be put to the House. I, therefore, move, seconded by the hon. member for Edmonton Centre:
That the matter of the Prime Minister's unparliamentary language in this question period be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections.


Oh, oh!


Hear, hear!


Order, please. The action taken by the hon. member for Saskatoon-Biggar will give all members of the House, including the Chair, the opportunity to reflect for a day on the events that took place. Perhaps after 24 hours we will see what, if any, events follow it. Some decision can then be made by the Chair.


Oh, oh!


Order, please. I took it from the intent of the remarks of the hon. member for Saskatoon-Biggar that it was his request that the Prime Minister be given an opportunity to consider his remarks and to apologize. I do not know of any other way I can deal with the matter. That is what I have been asked to do.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I wish to direct a question to the government House leader in terms of government business. I do not know how long the
80012-55%

May 4, 1977
Oral Questions
government House leader and the Minister of Manpower and Immigration are going to test my patience. Has some sort of agreement been reached on that side with regard to bringing in a mini-bill in order to relieve the financial pressures that some
18,000	senior citizens are experiencing? How long is the government House leader going to test my patience? That is all I want to know.


Presenting reports from standing and special committees.


Mr. Speaker, the government House leader is looking at me with a smile and a blank face. I hope he heard my point of order. He knows that I want to co-operate with him. We always try to co-operate. Surely the government House leader can tell me whether a decision has been reached, a decision in the form of a bill, and that it is expected some time this week. They only have a couple of days. Surely the government House leader can allow me that kind of courtesy.


Mr. Speaker, I thought that the hon. member's question was how long I intended to test his patience. I did not really have a basis upon which to analyse that reply. However, with respect to the bill, I made it clear yesterday that the government intended to bring in the bill and that it was intended to be brought in as quickly as possible. If I can get the bill cleared today, it will go on the order paper immediately. The bill will come in. I hope I made that clear yesterday and I make it clear again today. I hope the hon. member's patience is restored.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. Yesterday I put a question to the Minister of State for multiculturalism asking whether he had any plans to provide help for the department