Mr. Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgency to many Canadians, namely, concern about the imminent return to this country of two FLQ terrorists exiled from Canada in 1970.
Since the feeling persists that some preconditions may be attached to the return of these people, while they retain their Canadian citizenship, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Eglinton (Mr. Parker):
That this House requests the appropriate minister to make a full statement on motions as to what the original deal was when the terrorists were exiled in 1970, was it verbal or in writing, and to confirm or deny whether any discussions have taken place with any authorities at any level of government to allow these people back on to Canadian soil in time for Christmas.


The presentation of such a motion for debate at this time would require the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on an urgent and serious matter, under Standing Order 43, dealing with the lack of safety within our penitentiary system. My motion, therefore, does not require a lengthy preamble as members are well aware of the necessity to improve the system in this regard, as underlined once again in the recent tragic events at Millhaven and Collins Bay penitentiaries. Therefore I move, seconded by the hon. member for Huron-Middlesex (Mr. McKinley):
That this House instruct the Solicitor General to implement forthwith measures dealing with changes related to the safety within the Canadian penitentiary system as outlined in the parliamentary subcommittee report on the penitentiary system in Canada, currently collecting dust and, further, introduce legislation outlining a return to capital punishment for first degree, premeditated murders.


The presentation of such a motion for debate at this time can be done only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43 I wish to raise a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that a gash in the hull of the John A. Macdonald, an icebreaker currently on lease to Dome Petroleum, has resulted in a 70,000 gallon oil spill in the Beaufort Sea, and in view of the fact that the oil has not been located, arising from the fact that there was no knowledge of the spill at the time it occurred, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That this House calls upon the government to undertake a full investigation into the circumstances surrounding one of the largest oil spills in Arctic waters, a spill which has confirmed the fears of many northerners.


Such a motion can be introduced for debate at this time, pursuant to Standing Order 43, only with unanimous agreement. Is there unanimous agreement?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to introduce a motion concerning a
80067-36)4

December 1, 1978
matter of pressing and urgent necessity dealing with research and development.
Following a statement made last June in this House by the minister then responsible for science and technology to the effect that the Government of Canada would use science and technology to strengthen the Canadian economy, increasing public and private contribution to that sector by 1.5 per cent of the gross national product up to 1983, in view of the fact that this national priority has been jeopardized by cuts of over $200 million in that sector, announced on September 8 last by Treasury Board, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Abitibi (Mr. Laprise):
That the government put an end to its irresponsible and unilateral action in the field of science and research, which violates the commitments taken by its department last June.


Under Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that Treasury Board is currently deliberating next year's budget for the Canadian search and rescue service, and recognizing that 60 per cent of search and rescue incidents during 1977 occurred on Canada's Pacific coast, whereas only 30 per cent of the search and rescue vessels operate on the west coast, and because the 1978-79 search and rescue plan does not significantly alter this disproportionate situation, thereby putting the lives of west coast seafarers at risk, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich (Mr. Munro):
That the government move immediately to distribute the resources of the search and rescue program in a more equitable fashion, bearing in mind the disproportionately larger number of rescue calls on the west coast.


Presentation of such a motion for debate can be done only with unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, and seconded by the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands (Mr. Douglas), 1 move:
That this House urges the government, in view of its contention that it recognizes the role of spouses working in the home, to bring before the House, at an early date, legislation to provide pensions for all homemaker spouses, in their own right, equivalent to those earned by contributors to the Canada Pension Plan, thus recognizing in full, for pension purposes, the contribution to our society made by those who work in the home.


Presentation of such a motion for debate requires unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the absence of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and his parliamentary secretary, I will direct my questions to the right hon. Prime Minister.
The Auditor General's report pointed out very clearly that the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development does not have any management or control whatsoever. In pointing out some of the cost discrepancies, especially in school construction, the Auditor General indicated that no monitoring whatsoever was done on several projects. The ones he pointed out very dearly were school construction projects, with an estimated cost of $5.6 million and the actual cost ending up being $12.8 million. What is being put in place to ensure that these cost overruns will not occur in the schools, projects already committed for this year?


Mr. Speaker, I would be very happy to take notice of the question and confer with the relevant minister. I think he will be in the House today.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Prime Minister. In the Auditor General's reports for 1977 and 1978, the Auditor General pointed out that the Indian arts and crafts central marketing
December 1, 1978

revolving fund system will be phased out on December 31, 1978, mainly due to mismanagement of the fund.
In view of the fact that $1 million was paid out to Indian people for arts and crafts and that a number of people across the country operate the fund, what action is being taken to supplement this particular fund to ensure a marketing system for native peoples?


Mr. Speaker, I would be happy to take notice of that question as well. I should remind the hon. member that the Auditor General's report will be discussed in the normal manner in the committee and the hon. member will have a chance to go into detail on all these questions there. Of course, it is his privilege to raise them in the House if he wants, but since I cannot be expected to have answers to every item in the Auditor General's report, it would be useful if I could receive notice of his questions in advance.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my first question, or portions of it, to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Because of the mismanagement and lack of control in his department, the Auditor General pointed out very clearly that major school construction programs across the country in five particular locations had an estimated cost of S5.6 million and the actual cost ended up at SI2.8 million. He pointed out very clearly that this is through lack of management and control within the department. We have-
[DOT] din)


"Suspected."


-suspected this for quite some time. I wanted to use another word, but I just could not get it out, Mr. Speaker.
I should like to ask the minister what controls he will put in place to ensure that the schools which are now under construction for this year will not have these outrageous cost overruns.


Mr. Speaker, I think it is probably worthwhile to point out that all these questions were asked and answered at the parliamentary committee during the course of the last two weeks, which suggests to me that maybe the hon. member is getting at a broader question of principle. I should like to address myself to that, particularly in terms of building schools involving Indian labour.
What the hon. member is suggesting is not a matter of controls; he is suggesting that what we should do in terms of reserves is to get a company from outside the reserves to come in and build the schools as cheaply as possible. That is what he is really suggesting and that is what that party stands for. I am saying, on the other hand, that if that party is at all interested in socio economic development on reservations, it must be prepared to use Indian labour, Indian craftsmen and people like that. I am saying that may be more expensive in the
Oral Questions
short term, but it is the only way we can get at these chronic problems.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister arising out of the Auditor General's report.
As the Prime Minister will be aware, the Auditor General audited some 67 contracts which were given out by the Post Office to a value of some $132 million of taxpayers' money. One of the findings of the Auditor General was that the Post Office made a practice of splitting up larger contracts into a series of smaller ones so that the dollar value of those contracts was lower than the amount whereby Treasury Board approval would have to be sought.
Can the Prime Minister assure the House that in future the Post Office will be instructed to avoid trying to circumvent Treasury Board guidelines, and that in future the approval of Treasury Board will be sought for contracts of this nature?


Mr. Speaker, I can only repeat my previous answer, in the absence of the Postmaster General-


Where is he?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member is really interested in answers to these questions, this matter is being debated in the parliamentary committee. I understand he will not be on television as much there, but he will get the facts and he will then be able to make up his mind whether he wants to advocate a change in policy.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister is quite testy today.


You should know.


In view of the fact that he is apparently incapable of getting the President of the Treasury Board or the Postmaster General into the House to answer questions-we received word from the Postmaster General's office only 15 minutes before question period that he would not be present- we have no choice but to question the Prime Minister on the activities of his government.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker-


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if the Prime Minister would answer the question after I have asked it. I want to ask the Prime Minister about a further finding of the Auditor

December 1, 1978
Oral Questions
General, namely, that it was the practice of the Post Office Department, in instances where contracts had expired, to continue to pay for services being provided by contractors without going back to Treasury Board to get new contracts signed or the approval of Treasury Board.
Will the Prime Minister give Canadian taxpayers the assurance that in future this practice will be discontinued and that Treasury Board approval will be sought in instances where the Post Office intends to go ahead after contracts have expired?


Mr. Speaker, regarding the presence or the absence of ministers, I think we have a very full attendance of ministers here this morning. They have departmental duties and duties in other parts of the country. If hon. members are really interested in getting information, as provided by the rules, a simple notice would be the way by which the minister could either provide the answer or make sure an acting minister would be present.


Their offices will not even tell us whether they will be here.


Hear, hear!


The Postmaster General's office did not know where he was.


I understand that he was home all morning.


When I phoned, his office did not even know where he was and did not know whether he would be here.


Oh, oh!


Did you hear that, Mr. Speaker?


The Speaker cannot answer.


Of course he cannot. That is why I suggest these questions should not be asked of him in the form of conversation. Ministers have duties about the country-


Where is Joe?


Oh, oh!


Yes, where is the Leader of the Opposition?


He is in your riding, in Mount Royal.


Who is on television now?


I am not at all sure that anybody phoned him this morning to find out where he was, but if-


Did you want to question him?


Oh, oh!


Who is running the government?


I try to be helpful to the House. If the opposition wants the answer to a question-


This is the Gong show.


Will somebody hit the gong?


I see the Speaker reaching for the hook, but he is looking in that direction.


Hear, hear!


Order. I have certainly been cast in many different roles over the years, but I think the relationship between television here and television elsewhere can be happily left alone.


Mr. Speaker, since this is the Prime Minister's day for being helpful in the House, I would like to direct a question to him. Some five years ago the Prime Minister's government made a commitment to the Canadian people, as enshrined in the Two-Price Wheat Act, that wheat used for human consumption in Canada would be subsidized by the government paying the difference between the floor price and the world price. That legislation was to operate for seven years.
Today, on the order paper, there is a bill from the minister in charge of the Wheat Board which will remove that subsidy, thereby adding some $30 a year to the grocery bill of every family in Canada. Does the Prime Minister not consider that this is a breach of faith and that his government is breaking its word to the Canadian people by terminating this commitment two years before it was due to expire?


Mr. Speaker, obviously this is an argument that the hon. member will want to put forward when the bill is debated in the House. We have presented this bill in the expectation that the results would be better, generally, for Canadian farmers and consumers in the long run.
I would remind the hon. member that during this period of seven years there have been many measures, including some adopted just last week, and currently before the House, which have transferred to Canadian consumers-particularly the less favoured ones in our nation-various forms of assistance including indexation of pensions, increased pensions, family allowances, and so on. One cannot discuss this subject in the abstract without looking at the total picture and the general assistance given to those consumers in Canada who need
December 1, 1978

assistance. The government will be very happy to discuss this matter with the hon. member when the bill is called for second reading.


Mr. Speaker, I understand the Scriptures to say that the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, but 1 did not know that it applied to the Prime Minister. He is telling us that the government has given us certain legislation to help the less fortunate people in Canada, and this piece of legislation takes it away. It seems to me that that is no argument at all.
Would the Prime Minister tell the House why it is that a subsidy which at the present time amounts to about 3.3 cents per loaf is to be removed, when it is estimated by the Bakery Council of Canada that as a result the increase in the price of bread will be seven cents, plus another five cents for increased energy, labour and transportation costs? It seems to me that for the government to save 3.3 cents per loaf, and for consumers to have to pay seven cents extra per loaf, is not very good economics: it is not carrying out the program to which the government claims it is committed, namely, to hold down inflation at this critical time.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is bringing forth figures of which I and, I believe, the government have no substantial knowledge. It is probably a hypothetical calculation. If the hon. member wants to give notice of that question, I will draw it to the attention of our statisticians, who will find out whether it has any foundation.


Mr. Speaker, the figures were produced by the Bakery Council of Canada and they have been drawn to the attention of the minister in charge of the Wheat Board already by my colleague, the hon. member for Yorkton-Melville; so the government are fully aware of the facts, if they would take the trouble to look into the matter.
I have a final supplementary question to the Prime Minister. Every time there is an increase in price at the source of a commodity, every person who handles that commodity adds their mark-up, with the result that a 3.3 cent increase in the price of the wheat that goes into a loaf of bread winds up as at least seven cents to the consumer, and perhaps much more.
Would the Prime Minister commit himself to seeing to it personally that the minister responsible sets up the machinery to properly monitor this matter as it has not been monitored in the past and see that the Canadian people are not gouged as a result of the removal of this subsidy on domestically-consumed wheat?


Mr. Speaker, as with the very substantial reduction in sales tax announced in the budget, and as with this particular measure, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs did his best to make sure the system works and that savings or non-savings are adequately accounted for.
Oral Questions
Once again, after the third question from the hon. member, it becomes obvious there is a difference of approach between the two parties on this particular matter. It is a basic difference. The hon. member would like the Canadian government to subsidize everybody who consumes bread: him, me, the poor, the rich, and everybody else. Our approach is that we should help those who are really needy in Canada. That is why we are increasing the old age pension following our August announcement and subsequent legislation: parliament will increase old age pensions by $240 per year. That is why families with children who are in the medium or lower income classes will receive an additional $140 per child, per year.
This is our approach to help those in Canada who are in need of help, rather than subsidizing all Canadians everywhere, all the time, for everything. It is a different approach between the parties.


Mr. Speaker, I want to put a question to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Is the minister aware of a report of the Toronto Star to the effect that in 1977 the General Motors Corporation spent $1.4 billion worldwide for research and development and that the company has stated it cannot say how much has been invested in Canada because the federal government has yet to explain what it means by research and development?
Could the minister tell the House right now what he means by research and development?


Mr. Speaker, I believe a long discussion about the definition of "research and development" is too general to be dealt with in question period.
Perhaps I could respond to the substance of the hon. member's question by saying that, while I have not seen the article in the Toronto Star, I can assure him the government is most interested in persuading automobile manufacturers, through incentives or other methods, to do more research and development in this country. That was very much the line my predecessor took with the automobile companies. We have not yet succeeded, but I can assure the hon. member we are going to redouble our efforts.
[ Translation]


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. While waiting for the minister to read that

December 1, 1978
Oral Questions
article, I would ask him whether he or any official in his department has contacted General Motors to determine what amount the company has invested in Canada in 1977 in the field of research.


Mr. Speaker, I will be very pleased to make inquiries either through my officials or directly myself to senior officials of General Motors to find out the numbers.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question: it deals with questions that were asked yesterday and the day before with reference to the FLQ and particularly national security.
As the original deal made between the federal government and Jacques Cossette-Trudel and his wife Louise Lanctot, whereby they agreed to go into exile in return for the safe release of Mr. Cross, the British diplomat who was kidnapped, all took place in an atmosphere where civil rights were set aside and the War Measures Act was in full force-there were 497 arrested, 62 charged and only 2 convicted-has the Prime Minister, any member of the Trudeau government, any federal agency, the Department of External Affairs, or any embassy, had a discussion with any members of the Quebec government of late with reference to this matter, inparticular with the minister of justice for the province of Quebec, as to the return of these two people so they can enjoy Christmas at home, rather than away; and if not, why not? Why has the government shirked its responsibility?


Mr. Speaker, since the hon. member has given a bit of the background, I might remind him that in the days and years preceding the special measures of October there had been a succession of more than 100 kidnappings, murders, derailing of trains, raiding of arsenals, bombings, blowings-up and everything else.


Will you answer the question?


The hon. member gave some background and I would like him to be reminded of these facts. Since the government responded with firm action to prevent any parallel power from exercising authority of a political nature in this country and getting the release of prisoners as was asked, with great ransoms, none of these things happened. As a matter of fact-


Hear, hear!


-most countries which had accepted other ways of dealing with violence either before or after 1970, and tried to deal more leniently with outbreaks of violence, have since learned that the Canadian way is the proper way of doing it. They have followed our approach.


Hear, hear!


In so far as the question is concerned, Mr. Speaker, 1 cannot understand, for the life of me, why this hon. member is interested in the government doing something to get these people back for Christmas.


Mr. Speaker, I am not sure about getting them back for Christmas: I hope they are over there at New Year's. I am asking questions in reference to this government's responsibility, because yesterday the Prime Minister-who wanted to make a speech today, and he accomplished that- said-


Oh, oh!


-in answer to a question put by the Leader of the Opposition:
They were to the effect that if ever they returned, they would be prosecuted with the full force of the law.
I ask this question: was the deal in writing? Did the Quebec government at the time agree with the deal? How can the Prime Minister say they will be subject to due process of the law, if he has refused to talk to any ministers of Quebec, although the headlines in the paper say that they will be home for Christmas? He has refused to discuss it with the minister of justice of Quebec, or the Premier of Quebec, and he has no information for the House. It was his government that made a deal to put these people in exile, and he is making fun about the situation as to Christmas. I ask him, how can he assure this country that if they return they will be subject to due process of the law, if he leaves it to the provincial government without having any conservation or discussion with them? It is beyond anyone's imagination or comprehension.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member uses the words that we have refused to discuss this with the legitimate authorities of Quebec. We have not refused; we have not been asked. I just say that it is passing strange to me that the hon. member suggests it is our duty to approach the Quebec government and initiate discussions on this matter. We have no knowledge that the Cossette-Trudels want to come back. They have not informed us. We have taken no initiatives. I repeat, it is strange to me that a member of the Tory opposition would suggest it is our responsibility to take the initiative to ensure that they do come back.


Mr. Speaker, quoting from a newspaper, it says "The Canadian embassy"-


Oh, oh!


-"in Paris"-
December 1, 1978


Do you have to read the press?


1 do not know why members are so excited, if they have nothing to hide.


Oh, oh!


The article says that the Canadian embassy in Paris told the Journal that the Cossette-Trudels had not applied for renewal of their passports, but the officials of that embassy will give them travelling permits to come back to Canada. That is the Prime Minister's own embassy. I thought the ambassador from France, who is now with us, was probably advising the Prime Minister on his dangerous domestic affairs and might have discussed this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I cannot be responsible for what is written in the press. I hope the hon. member will discuss it with these people and find out what questions were asked and what answers were given. I cannot really answer for what the press writes and what the hon. member chooses to believe.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Communications: in her absence I will address it to the parliamentary secretary.
The hon. member for Eglinton was ruled out of order a day or so ago after posing a rather ham-handed question to the minister on a very important issue to some 200,000 Toronto households and this House of Commons. Would the parliamentary secretary ask the minister to intercede with the Canadian Radio-Television Commission to see if the regulation wise, common sense foolish CRTC attitude which has led to the removal of the question period live daily from the community channel of Rogers Cable TV in Toronto can be changed and this service re-established pending more longterm decisions on the broadcasting of proceedings of this House?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to tell the hon. member that I have seen the editorial referred to by him, but I would advise him that it is not totally accurate. Rogers Telecommunications in Toronto have been providing coverage of the question period, via a community channel, on a temporary basis only in compliance with the CRTC public ruling announced in February, 1978. That announcement stipulated that the cable company should do so on a special programming channel, but if alternate channel space was not available they would allow them to broadcast the proceedings of the House via the community channel, on a temporary basis.
There has been no new ruling by the CRTC on the subject since that time. The Toronto firm is simply complying with the ruling made by the CRTC in February of this year. I will certainly pass on the representation to the minister so that she may answer it more fully at a later time.
Oral Questions PUBLIC WORKS


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Public Works I would like to ask the acting minister if he could tell the House what happened in that department to cause an employee to smash $8,000 worth of usable light bulbs, as reported in the Globe and Mail this morning? It seems to me rather strange that a picture would be taken if there was not some motive behind this incident.
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I will report the incident to my colleague and I am sure he will order an inquiry to find out the reasons for it.


Mr. Speaker, while that investigation is going on, if it is undertaken, will the department try to discover whether or not this damage was done in retaliation for the minister's recent announcement that 100 positions in his department will become surplus, in light of the fact that the department continues to hire many outside consultants at considerable cost?


Mr. Speaker, I am quite sure my colleague will want that investigation to encompass all aspects of the question.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Fisheries. The minister has announced a six months' freeze as of November 7, 1978, on new entries to the inshore ground fishery for all of Atlantic Canada except Labrador, giving as an explanation for his action the need for a better form of control because of the tremendous increase in effort in the inshore fishery in the past few years.
Since Canada is still licensing hundreds of large foreign trawlers within our 200-mile economic zone, whose operations are still depleting offshore and inshore fishery resources, has the minister considered decreasing the number of foreign fishing permits to be issued next year, rather than imposing further restrictions on Canadian fishermen?


Mr. Speaker, I am quite surprised that the hon. member, who is familiar with the fishery, would put this type of question seriously. He knows very well that the alternative to a greater fishing effort by the inshore fishermen for traditional species is not to reduce the effort of foreign nations for

December 1, 1978
Oral Questions
non-utilized and non-traditional species. It really does not make sense.
I may say to the hon. member that the arithmetic is very simple: inside and outside the 200-mile zone we catch 76 per cent of the traditional species for which we have markets and in which our industry is interested. If the hon. member advocates a policy of moving all the foreign fishing effort outside the 200-mile zone, I have to ask him three questions. First, how would he guarantee Canadian interests outside 200 miles? Second, what currency would he use for access to foreign markets? Third, how would he protect Canadian salmon on the west coast and the east coast which is away offshore on the high seas?


Mr. Speaker, I will be pleased to give the Minister of Fisheries a private briefing when we have more time, so that he will be aware of the true facts. We have restricted entry into our deep sea scallop fishery, restricted entry into our lobster fishery, and now restricted entry into the inshore groundfish fishery, which makes the minister the czar or comptroller general of all fishing in Canada.
Since the declaration of a 200-mile limit was supposed to provide new opportunities for Canadian fishermen, both inshore and offshore and I remind the minister of that-when can we expect an announcement from him which will indicate that Canadians can plan to take advantage of our fisheries resources and expand their fisheries operations, rather than restrict them, which appears to be the only program this government has to offer?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member would read the statement that I made to the first ministers' conference, especially the appendix attached to it, he would see that the opportunities are very much in the pockets of Canadian fishermen, whose income has risen 50 per cent since 1974 and whose return in the present year is really quite dramatic. That is one issue.
The issue of development for under-utilized species-underutilized indicates that our industry has had no interest in those species in the past-is another issue. On this matter, I repeat what I have said many times in this House and in newspaper articles that have been published. If Canadians want to apply for licences for under-utilized species only-that is, if they do not want to compete with the existing fleet that is now finally getting a decent return-I am willing to look at their applications. I might add, however, that I am not going to mortgage the benefits of a 200-mile zone for only three or four large companies on the east coast.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of National Defence. I have here a copy of a transcript of the November 17 hearing of the People's Food Commission in Alberta which points out that farmers in the Cold Lake, Alberta, area have been troubled with bombs falling from Canadian military aircraft at the nearby base, damaging fields and some farm buildings. There is one incident of a military jet crashing within 500 feet of a farmer's home.
In view of the obvious concern about safety which these farmers have for themselves and their farmsteads, can the minister assure us that planes with bombs from this base will not fly near or over residential property, thus threatening the lives and safety of the farmers involved?


Mr. Speaker, certainly all safety precautions are taken. The only accident I am aware of was one practice bomb going through a grain silo, I believe it was, where compensation was offered. It was not a bomb that exploded. In 1974, I believe, there was a crash in a farmer's field. There is aviation training there that is obviously a hazard. But every possible precaution is taken to minimize those dangers.


At the same commission hearing, a military officer from the base said:
Mufflers fall off cars-you can't expect perfection when you're attaching bombs to a plane.
Surely the minister and his department can do better than that. Since these planes fly at about 650 miles an hour, at some 250 feet, over farm buildings and farmsteads, can the minister assure the farmers there will be safety precautions taken and that adequate compensation will be paid, as there are some cases where farmers have not been compensated at all for damage caused by bombs or aircraft that crash within 500 feet of a farmer's house?


Certainly I can give the assurance that every possible safety precaution has been taken. If there has not been compensation, it is because there probably has not been a compensation claim. Whenever damage is done, compensation is offered. I know of cases where the compensation has not even been accepted, and other cases where it has not been questioned at all.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. There have been widespread reports that the Gov-
December 1, 1978

ernment of Canada has reached agreement with the government of Alberta-or agreement in principle, in any event-to discount the price of Alberta natural gas to be paid by new customers east of Alberta.
Can the minister confirm that agreement has been reached in principle? If so, what are the main outlines of the agreement? Alternatively, if agreement has not yet been reached in principle, is the Government of Canada seeking such agreement? If so, why? What are the policy reasons for it? What details are there in respect of the agreement that the minister can tell the House this morning?


Mr. Speaker, I can confirm that an agreement was reached with the government of Alberta with respect to discount pricing or incentive pricing of natural gas. That was made clear by my statement and the response of the Premier of Alberta at the first ministers' conference earlier this week. The elements of it were to provide an incentive or discount with regard to natural gas going into new markets in eastern Canada, for a fixed duration.
There were other provisions in terms of principles with respect to rolling in at the Alberta border. That would apply to all markets east of the Alberta border. The reason, of course, is to maximize in Canada the market for a Canadian resource and, in the process, to displace foreign crude oil; in other words, to pursue as aggressively as we can our objective of self-reliance for Canada.


Will the minister tell us if this agreement is linked in any way to the over-all question of the export of natural gas? What sort of term is involved with regard to this agreement? Is there a phase-out? When the minister speaks of new markets east of Alberta, is he talking about the residential as well as the industrial market?


Mr. Speaker, there was no linking of this set of principles in the decision to set up a joint task force between the Government of Canada and the government of Alberta with regard to exports of natural gas. At no time did we trade or negotiate on the basis of additional exports of natural gas. The agreement was addressing itself exclusively to the maxim, ization of the Canadian market for natural gas.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Is the government coming close to an agreement in principle with the Inuit Tapirisat? If so, when does he expect he might be completing that agreement in principle?


Mr. Speaker, I take it the hon.
Oral Questions
member is referring to land claims with respect to the eastern Arctic. No, I do not believe I can say, today, that we are close to an agreement in principle.


Can the minister assure the people of the Northwest Territories that he will not perpetuate the bad example he set in coming to an agreement with COPE by not consulting the elected representatives of the people before reaching that agreement? Will he assure us that he will consult the elected members of the Northwest Territories Council before coming to that agreement in principle with the Inuit Tapirisat?


Mr. Speaker, there were consultations with the council. I think it is fair to say-the hon. member is making this point-the levels of consultation were not adequate from the point of view of some members of the council. I think I can give the hon. member a history of the levels of consultation and when they had the documents prior to a decision being taken.
Allowing for that, I can say that in principle we are involving the government of the Northwest Territories in the land claims discussion. A member of the council has been designated to be a claims person, and I am working very closely with those who are involved to ensure that when we get to the point of an agreement in principle, all parties to the agreement in principle in the Northwest Territories, are supportive. I think it is important to note that with respect to the settlement with the Inuvialuit, the mayor of Inuvik recently said he thought it was a very good settlement. I am sure his decision and judgment are respected by the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary to the questions asked by the hon. member for Northumberland-Durham: it is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources.
My question concerns the continuing controversy surrounding the price of domestic crude oil. Will the minister tell the House what effect a $1 a barrel increase in the price of oil would have on equalization payments to the Atlantic provinces, and what collective effect such an increase would have on consumers in those provinces? In other words, are some premiers supporting an increase in the price in order to increase their equalization grants, at the expense of consumers?


Order, please. It seems to me that the question suffers from two distinct disabilities. First, it would require a very long expose by the minister. The second matter about the

December 1, 1978
Oral Questions
provincial premiers introduces an element of argument. The minister may be able to make a brief answer; I do not know.


Mr. Speaker, I think I can deal with the question very quickly. As I understand the question, there are three points. Yes, there would be an effect on equalization payments, the transfer from the federal government to the provincial governments, if the increase did not go forward. The provincial governments would receive less, just as the federal government would receive less.
The second point is that there would be about four times as much benefit to consumers in the provinces. The third point 1 would like to make is that this affects more than just consumers; there is the whole question of a region, and that involves workers as well as consumers.


The hon. member for Okanagan-Kootenay.


Mr. Speaker, as neither the minister nor the parliamentary secretary are in the House today, and after the fatuous remarks of the Prime Minister, I would like to reserve my question until some time when the minister is present, at which time I would like to raise a point of order.


Order, please. The hon. member for Fraser Valley East.


Mr. Speaker, 1 would like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. This past summer the British Columbia government submitted a proposal for cost-sharing in the health entry plan for heroin users. I would like to ask the minister if the federal government has decided on the level of support for that British Columbia program.


Mr. Speaker, the B.C. health entry plan has been discussed for months between the B.C. provincial government and the federal government. There have been numerous meetings of various federal ministers and the B.C. government. If B.C. wants to isolate one health problem and identify it as a special problem in that province, in order to get more money for health services, we cannot accept that because every other province could then identify special problems. Such problems might be with regard to industrial health factors, and so forth.
I do not have with me the exact amount, but B.C. is receiving in this current fiscal year about $586 million under the established finance plan-EFP-which pays for health services.
British Columbia also receives a large sum of money for cost-sharing in social services. All that together should cover every need for assistance with regard to facilities that B.C. wants to develop for the treatment of drug addicts. I have given the B.C. government a commitment regarding my demonstration program called "Alternatives", which is a great success although carried on a small scale. We have funded that program for three years and an additional $100,000 will be allocated to it.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a supplementary question to the Solicitor General. Given the fact that 60 per cent of drug-related crime in Canada is committed in British Columbia, and that only 25 per cent of the RCMP's drug squad manpower is assigned to British Columbia, does the minister intend to increase the RCMP commitment in British Columbia so that drug offences can be dealt with more effectively in the future?


Mr. Speaker, a demand has been made by provincial authorities that there be an increase in the complement of the RCMP, and that matter is under consideration.
 * *


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion: it is in relation to my continuing efforts to have his department take a realistic look at applying the DREE formula to central Ontario.
Has the minister looked into this matter, and when will his department start applying the DREE formula on the basis of need, rather than on the basis of other considerations?


Mr. Speaker, we are indeed looking into the economic situation of all the regions within the provinces. As to the many representations made by the hon. member that his region be declared a designated area and as such become entitled to direct assistance to industries, I do not think that I am ready to do that yet. At the same time, we are looking into possible ways to implement a new program. Just now, we are having discussions with the Ontario government, with a view to assisting with the economic development of a number of peripheral regions in that province. We have signed an agreement recently and we hope that, within the next few months, we can conclude the current discussions and hopefully provide solutions to some of the problems the hon. member has mentioned.

December 1, 1978


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State for External Affairs I will direct my question to the Prime Minister.
As the matter of the ailing Soviet dissident, Danylo Shumuk, has been raised in this House many times in recent months, and recognizing that an official plea was made to Soviet authorities some four weeks ago today at the unanimous request of this House, will the Prime Minister inform this House whether a reply has been received from the Soviet government and what further action he will take to pursue the prompt release of Danylo Shumuk?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for providing me with my first opportunity to reply in the House. Early in October, we were advised that Mr. Shumuk's health had greatly deteriorated. On the strength of that report, the government expressed to the Soviet authorities its deep concern and asked that Mr. Shumuk's case be reconsidered on humanitarian grounds, in order to allow him to leave Russia and come to Canada. The External Affairs department was then informed by the Soviet authorities that Mr. Shumuk's state of health, although poor, was not as critical as it had been reported, something of which his parents here in Canada have now been informed. While it is true that we have no way of verifying this information, it is of some comfort to know that Mr. Shumuk's state of health is improving and we hope that the Soviet authorities will eventually allow him to join his relatives in Canada.

Point of Order-Mr. C. Smith
being paid on that income. I hope the hon. member will help me to speed up passage of legislation in this regard.


Mr. Speaker, the difference between what banks charge and the prime rate has gone up from 1.49 per cent last year to 1.8 per cent this year as a direct result of the increases in the interest rate which the government has brought about.
Could the minister tell us whether he does not think it is time to introduce measures to see that these excess bank profits are used in such a way that we can guarantee low interest rates for mortgages and small businesses?


Mr. Speaker, I think we will have an occasion to debate that matter in committee, because the Bank Act is in front of the committee at this moment. Of course, one way to make sure that there is a better rate of return, or more competition in the system, is to pass the Bank Act amendments under which we will be providing more competition to the banking system in this land.


Through foreign banks.


I am not doctrinaire about foreign banks or our banks. I think the hon. member should talk to his seatmate and to other members of his party who are in favour of having more competition, even from foreign banks. If you are in agreement, you should discuss that amongst yourselves, since your party supports our proposition.


Why do you downgrade Canadians?


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. I know he wants to get away, but I want to ask him this question. It arises out of the announcement yesterday that bank profits are up 33 per cent to a whopping $1 billion. The minister is asking Canadian workers to keep their wage demands to increases of 6 per cent and 7 per cent. Can the minister tell us what action he plans to take to see that bank profits are controlled and even reduced?


Mr. Speaker, most probably I would not have had to rise on this point of order had the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development (Mr. Faulkner) been in his seat at the proper time this morning. I did not have a chance to put another supplementary question to him, so in response to the minister's reply to the question I feel I should rise at this time on a point of order.
In my question I dealt with the Auditor General's report. I will read one short passage-


The hon. member will have to persuade me first that he has a procedural point.


Mr. Speaker, I think the law applies to banks as it does to any other institution. Banks pay taxes like any other corporation. In the budget I decided to change some of the rules because I felt that in some cases there was too much income and that taxes were not


My procedural point is that the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development actually insulted this side of the House and misrepresented facts when he said we were more in favour of taking contractors from outside the Indian communities to construct schools than we

December 1, 1978
Point of Order-Mr. H. Johnston
were of employing local Indian people in the community. This is false, Mr. Speaker.


Order, please. The hon. member has had the occasion to put that on the record, which is a small benefit he gained by way of a point of order. However, I am sure he will recognize, there is no surprise here, that his side of the House disagrees with the minister's assessment, and essentially it remains a disagreement, which I am sure will be pursued vigorously through the other vehicles available. I do not think I could begin to consider that, on a procedural basis, as a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I would refer to my point of order in terms of the right to reserve a question and also as the dilemma of a member who, almost without exception, has to wait three days before gaining recognition. Since this is the second day of rising, I did not really expect to be recognized by you, Mr. Speaker, today. I know, for example, that the hon. member for Burnaby-Seymour (Mr. Raines) has risen on many more days than I have and has not been recognized either. I was not anticipating being recognized today and I was laying the groundwork for recognition early next week.
The question I have raised in the House before is one on which I have sent a written notice to the Minister of Transport (Mr. Lang) some months ago. It has to do with the urban transportation assistance program and the signing of the master agreement on that program. I have asked about it repeatedly, and was caught in this