Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the provisions of Standing Order 43. During yesterday's meeting, March 15, of the Special Committee on a Northern Gas Pipeline, an internal departmental document was identified and was quoted in part.
In view of the fact that the government document states, "The government of Canada is prepared to extinguish native land claims if necessary by legislation to support its international word and commitment but it will do so in a way which represents the fairest possible settlement to those involved", and that the contents of the document could prejudice Indian and native people and impede meaningful negotiations, 1 move, seconded by the hon. member for Yukon (Mr. Nielsen):
That this House requests the Prime Minister to take the first opportunity on motions to clarify government policy with a view to reassuring the Indian and native people in the Yukon and British Columbia and indeed in Canada that the government will not legislate a unilateral settlement of native claims but will continue the policy of negotiating a fair and just settlement of those claims.


Presentation of such a motion for discussion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 to ask the unanimous consent of the House to deal with a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the fact that Chrysler Corporation today announced it will be shutting down its truck plant in
Windsor in July, with a loss of 800 jobs, while the operation moves to the United States, that within the last three years the federal government forgave Chrysler $17.5 million in duties built up because Chrysler had failed to meet its commitments regarding trucks under the auto pact, and that it is unlikely Chrysler will continue to be able to meet its commitments in the medium- to long-term after the closing of this plant, I move, seconded by the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Leggatt):
That this House instruct the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce to personally intervene and take whatever steps are necessary to force Chrysler to maintain production in this country.


Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, such a motion can be discussed only with unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43, I seek the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity for Quebec dairy producers and especially this government's integrity.
In view of the fact that the CDC is holding back part of the subsidies dairy producers should have received for their January 1978 production, that approximately 50 per cent of Quebec dairy producers have gone along with the government's request to comply with the set quotas, and that these are precisely the producers who are most severely punished by the CDC's decision, in spite of the fact that their only mistake has been to do their duty and comply with the government's regulations, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Belle-chasse (Mr. Lambert):
That the House direct the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Whelan) to order CDC Chairman Gilles Choquette to shed light on the marketing boards' quota tampering, and ask the federal government to cancel this shameful holding back from Quebec dairy producers of the subsidies they should have received for their January 1978 production.
80033-29%

March 16, 1978


Order, please. The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgency under the provisions of Standing Order 43. In view of the fact that prepaid 1976 orders for Olympic coins remain outstanding, purchasers are unable to get delivery or refunds from Olympic coin dealers under this federally-legislated program for which the government should be accountable to the general public, and that the Post Office Department apparently will not accept responsibility, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Capilano (Mr. Huntington):
That the Postmaster General report to the House of Commons prior to the Easter recess of parliament on this important matter.


Presentation of such a motion for discussion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Nanaimo-Cowichan-The Islands (Mr. Douglas):
That this House wishes to make it clear to the Minister of Finance that a speech by him at 8 o'clock tonight during the debate on Bill C-31 is not to be construed as a substitute for a budget, and this House calls on the Prime Minister to make it clear that there will be a budget before parliament is dissolved for the holding of a general election.


Such a motion, pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, requires unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.
[Mr. Beaudoin.J


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I rise to bring a matter of urgent and pressing necessity before the House regarding the critical situation in the Middle East.
While Canadians can understand the frustration which has led people to resort to violence and terrorism, such activities cannot be condoned, whether in the form of terrorism or open aggression. Such activities are unacceptable from any source. I therefore move:
That this government, at the earliest possible moment, bring forth initiatives at the Security Council of the United Nations, bilaterally with the United States and with the states currently in confrontation, that would re-stabilize the situation in the Middle East in order that earlier, positive peace initiatives may be resumed.


Presentation of such a motion for debate, pursuant to Standing Order 43, requires unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. In view of the fact that radon gas has been discovered in the ground-water supply in the city of Castlegar, in view of the fact that the Department of National Health and Welfare is to conduct a survey of the basements of residences in Castlegar for the detection of radon gas, and in view of the fact that up to now the federal government has ignored an application by that city for assistance under the DREE program, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Surrey-White Rock (Mr. Friesen):
That the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion reconsider his decision to fund that community under the DREE program.


Presentation of such a motion for debate requires unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.



March 16, 1978


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I move, seconded by the hon. member for York West (Mr. Fleming):
That in view of the kidnapping this morning in Rome of former premier Aldo Moro, a political figure respected internationally for his integrity and stature, this House express to the government of Italy the deep shock felt by this House and by the people of Canada upon learning of the kidnapping, and express the hope and prayers on Canada's part that Mr. Moro be freed unharmed and soon.


Agreed.


Order please. In accordance with the provisions of Standing Order 43, such a motion can be presented for debate only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


The House has heard the terms of the motion-


No.


Oral questions.


Mr. Speaker, I want to put a question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce regarding our trade deficit in the automotive account that we note has risen 8.5 per cent to SI,088 million. The minister is quoted as having said on the CTV program "Question Period" recently:
We've done very well in the auto pact; we've only lost about a billion in parts.
He is also quoted as saying:
More agreements similar to that might help Canada.
I ask the minister if he is aware that we have had five consecutive years of trade deficits in the automotive account. That amounts to $5,653 million and represents 39 per cent of our total balance of payments deficit over the past five-year period. The Canadian study done on the auto pact by his department indicates that the share of new trade would decline because new investment is being concentrated in the United States. Does the Minister still believe that the government has
Oral Questions
done very well, noting the effect the automotive trade imbalance is having on our balance of payments?
Hon. Jack H. Horner (Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce): Mr. Speaker, there are many ways to look at the automotive pact. We gain in employment. We have 11.2 per cent of the employment in the automotive pact, and we have about 8.9 per cent of the market. Actually, our exports of automotive vehicles and parts increased something like 25 per cent last year. I hope that with the efforts we are taking in 1978, we will come much closer to balancing automotive trade between Canada and the U.S. in total parts and vehicles. The 8.5 per cent which the hon. member speaks of, if he compares that with the inflationary rate he will see that we are holding our own very well.


Mr. Speaker, I would never consider a trade imbalance of $1,088 million as "holding our own very well." Be that as it may, the automotive agreement is a bilateral agreement between the Americans and Canadians. However, from the Canadian side it is a multilateral agreement.
I ask the minister why the government has not negotiated with the Americans for a North American content in automobile production and specified this by agreement as to the percentage of components we could have in that content. Why has he not done this, to offset the terrible loss in automotive parts that we are suffering at the present time?


Mr. Speaker, our exports of automobiles increased something like 26 per cent last year over 1976. In order to increase our export of vehicles, we have to import parts to put into the vehicles.


That is intelligent.


If our vehicle exports increase, then it is understandable in the agreement that many more parts might have to come into Canada in order to allow us to increase our exports of vehicles. If the hon. member is suggesting that we go to the United States and renegotiate the automotive pact, that is a thought which we have considered from time to time. But we have not given up on the auto pact. We believe that with a great deal more encouragement we can get more parts manufactured in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I am not suggesting that we necessarily renegotiate the auto pact, because it is an ongoing process. I am concerned about the parts which come in from Brazil and Mexico. I am talking about North American content. I ask the minister, what negotiations is he having with Chrysler Corporation regarding the closing of their truck plant in Windsor? Is he aware that we will lose 800 jobs? Does he know what effect this will have on our balance of payments and balance of trade? Also, what effect will it have on Chrysler's Canadian value added equation in the auto pact agreement?
State. Does the minister still believe that the government has

March 16, 1978
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my officials are in Windsor this week talking to Chrysler. I understand that Chrysler is to shut down one old truck plant. In the last two years they have spent $43 million in overhauling their new truck plant. They hope there will be no loss of jobs and that they will be able to accommodate the workers from the old truck plant in the new truck plant.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. The minister will recognize that, under the auto pact, our country is now facing an increasing deficit as concerns automotive parts, but according to certain information, it seems that General Motors would be very interested in establishing a large foundry in Canada. Can the minister tell the House if he has had personal negotiations with officials of this company concerning the building of a foundry in Canada in the near future?


Mr. Speaker, as I have said many times in this House, we are carrying on negotiations with the Big Three automobile manufacturers. They are considering a foundry such as the hon. member speaks of. For me to comment on it now would perhaps hinder, rather than help the negotiations. I know the hon. member wants to see the negotiations come to a successful conclusion. For me to intervene now and say something publicly would not help.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the minister responsible for these negotiations if there still is a possibility of a major foundry being established in Canada by General Motors, which would make us very happy, and can he tell us if he has recommended any locations for this project? If so, can he say where this foundry could be built in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, many areas are being considered. Here, again, I do not believe the government should decide where it is to be. We have placed before General Motors the options available to them in Canada, and we are awaiting their decision.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. At 11.30 this morning the city of Windsor was informed by Chrysler Corporation that it was closing its truck plant, thus

creating unemployment of 800 in the Windsor area, in July of this year. When did the minister first become aware that that plant might be closing, what consultation did his department undertake with Chrysler Corporation, and what steps does he intend to take to keep the plant operating in the Windsor area?
Hon. Jack H. Horner (Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce): As I said, Mr. Speaker, my officials have been in Windsor all week discussing Chrysler's hopes and expectations with regard to that truck plant. It is not for my officials to say the truck plant is old and needs a complete overhaul, or that a new plant will not do the same work as the old plant is doing. As I said earlier, Chrysler has spent $43 million on a new truck plant and hopes to accommodate the workers laid off at the old plant.


The new branch plant is operating at almost full capacity at the moment; therefore, it will not be able to absorb another 800 workers. Chrysler Corporation is building a plant in Jefferson, in the United States, to replace the old truck plant. In view of the fact this government forgave $17.5 million in duties which were owed by Chrysler up to 1975 because they failed to meet their commitment under the auto pact for the production of trucks in Canada, what steps does the minister intend to take to protect those 800 jobs now, and to make sure that Chrysler does not again default in its commitments, having already received a gift of $17.5 million from the taxpayers of Canada?


I like the hon. member's term "use force" to force Chrysler. We are in a free society. We can encourage. As I have said many times, I do not particularly want to do away with the automotive agreement. My understanding is that the workers who are laid off now will receive 90 per cent of what they are earning. We will have to wait and see whether Chrysler can accommodate them in a new plant. They are merely on a temporary lay-off now and will receive 90 per cent of their salary.


Whenever we on this side of the House ask the government to do something beneficial for Canadians we are accused of forcing the company. However, when they announce sudden lay-offs they are never accused of forcing our hand. They are holding the taxpayers up to blackmail. That is absolutely callous on the part of the government. There are now rumours in Windsor of the same sort that preceded today's announcement, that Chrysler will soon be shutting down its six-cylinder operation in that city.
Can the minister tell this House exactly what meaningful consultation is going on with the company? Is he being kept aware of the company's plans? Has his department approved any further shutdowns or been informed of any further shutdowns by Chrysler? Is the minister going to simply sit there and say "There's nobody here but us chickens"?


Mr. Speaker, I am not going to run down every rumour that I hear with regard to a shutdown of a plant. I would like to add to what I have already said that most of the
March 16, 1978

old plant that is now being shut down will be renovated and it is hoped it will be back in operation before the end of 1979.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct my question to the Minister of Agriculture.
Certain actions deserve questions and especially replies on the part of the Minister of Agriculture. My question concerns the Canadian Dairy Commission whose function it is to set and implement milk quotas for producers. In view of the fact that the CDC has withheld from Quebec milk producers the promised subsidies for milk production within the quotas set for January 1978, I would like to ask the minister if he does not think it a shame to penalize the Quebec milk producers by letting the CDC withhold the subsidies for their production in January 1978?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the hon. member has a copy of the letter which was sent to the dairy producers in Quebec. A meeting was held with their organizations on January 26 this year to try to iron out their difficulties, to determine who is getting the quota and whether they are entitled to receive quota payments. That has not yet been ironed out. They promised they would have this information for the Dairy Commission within a few weeks. I understand that a meeting between the two producer groups and the Dairy Commission will be taking place in Montreal this coming Friday.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary.
I should like to ask the minister whether he intends to cancel that holdback on the subsidies for the January 1978 production of the Quebec dairy producers, which consists of hiding the errors in the estimates and the lack of coordination of the CDC with regard to the producers. In addition, can he tell the House whether the CDC will be forced to tell the truth about the manipulation of the quotas by the market offices in Montreal and elsewhere?


As far as I know, the CDC is a very honest organization. If anyone has any information that the CDC is doing something dishonest, I want to know that also. They want to make sure that the industrial milk subsidy goes to those who are entitled to it. The provincial marketing boards
Oral Questions
in Quebec, Ontario and other provinces have jurisdiction over the allocation of quotas. There is a mix-up in the province of Quebec, but they hope to iron it out on Friday. We are not satisfied with the way this quota is being paid in the province of Quebec.


Mr. Speaker, the minister did not answer the question I put to him. I asked him specifically if the commissioners of the CDC will force the marketing offices, especially in the province of Quebec, to tell the truth about the manipulations or exchanges of quotas which I feel are completely abnormal?


Everything within the power of the Dairy Commission will be done to make sure that any wrongs in Quebec or in any other province will be rectified.


Before continuing with the question period, I invite all hon. members to join with me in recognizing the presence in our gallery of two very distinguished visitors from separate countries, heading delegations of great importance in our relationships, the first being Mr. Minoru Masuda, ViceMinister of International Affairs, Ministry of International Trade and Industry, Japan, and the other, Dr. Sandor Beckl, State Secretary and President of the National Bureau of Sport and Physical Education, Hungary.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have a brief but important question for the Prime Minister. It arises from the fact that a departmental document discussed at the Special Committee on a Northern Gas Pipeline yesterday, stated:
The government of Canada is prepared to extinguish native land claims if necessary by legislation to support its international word and commitment but it will only do so in a way which represents the fairest possible settlement to those involved.
I ask the Prime Minister if he will reassure the Indian and native people of the Yukon and British Columbia, and indeed people across Canada, that the government will not legislate a unilateral settlement but will continue a policy of negotiating a fair and just settlement of native claims.

March 16, 1978
Oral Questions


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I understand that this phrase was taken from a document prepared at a lower level of the bureaucracy, indicating various alternatives. There is no hesitation on my part in repeating what the Deputy Prime Minister said last night before the committee, that there is no intention on the part of the government to proceed in any other way than by looking for a negotiated settlement. The legislation speaks for itself. It has been reported out of the committee today, I understand, and indicates no intention to legislate.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister relating to the document quoted by my friend, the hon. member for Lambton-Kent. The document also states that it is the intention of the province of B.C. not to accept any responsibility and, indeed, to withdraw from any previous commitments it might have made to the government of Canada in respect of the province's obligation on the question of Indian land claims. Can the Prime Minister inform the House whether that position can be confirmed and whether it would not be a serious hindrance to signing the pipeline treaty with the United States?


Mr. Speaker, I have no further details on the status of the negotiations with British Columbia. I do know that the Deputy Prime Minister has spoken to the authorities of that province on several occasions. As to the exact status of negotiations on Indian claims jointly with the province of B.C., the question would have to be addressed to the minister responsible for Indian affairs.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. It arises out of the rumours circulating in the metropolitan area of Halifax that the federal government has entered into negotiations or is giving serious consideration to the purchase of Mercator I from its present owners, an overhaul and modification program for it and its eventual turning over to the Bedford Institute of Oceanography for oceanographic purposes.
Can the minister indicate to the House whether or not he is aware of these negotiations, and whether or not any conversations are being carried out between the government of Canada and the government of Nova Scotia or any other related interests with respect to this procedure?


Mr. Speaker, as has been alluded to by the hon. member, and as I am informed-although I will check this-it is only a rumour.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. Perhaps he could be given an opportunity to return from a visit to his Social Credit friends.


Oh, oh!


My question is in reference to a serious misrepresentation which I think the minister has repeatedly made to the House. I refer, for example, to what the minister stated last Tuesday in reply to a question put by me, when he said:
I feel we should wait to see what effect the $3 billion tax cut which came into force on January 1 has on the economy.
That is just not true. There was no $3 billion tax cut effective January 1. I hope the minister will take this opportunity to explain why he so misled the House.
[Translation\


Mr. Speaker, I have on several occasions in my speeches given a breakdown of those $3 billion. I do not have the figures here with me but, if 1 remember correctly, S850 million came from the automatic indexation. There were the $700 million because of the $100 given for the months of January and February, and there was other information of the same nature, which I do not have now but which I shall give the House, in addition to about $900 million in incentives to the industrial sector.


The minister has outlined $1.6 billion of spending, which includes $850 million of indexing which, may I point out with all due respect, is not a tax cut. Would he not agree that the further $1.4 billion to which he referred were actually tax cuts which became effective one year earlier, starting January 1, 1977, and were certainly not felt for the first time on January 1 of this year?
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I have made those statements many times in the House. I have given explanations about it. The budgetary position of the government gave an impulse of $3 billion to the economy as of January 1. I will be pleased to give from time to time an explanation to the hon. member who does not seem to understand.
March 16, 1978


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the right hon. Prime Minister. It has to do with another political kidnapping which took place this morning in Rome, that of former premier Aldo Moro. Does the Government of Canada intend to express to the government of Italy the deep shock felt by the Canadian parliament and by the people of Canada, and indicate our hopes and prayers that Mr. Moro will be freed soon, unharmed?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have already sent to the President of Italy, on behalf of the government, an expression of our sense of deep shock and grief which the government feels at such senseless violence. I added the thought that certainly in a democratic society, that kind of violence is absolutely unjustifiable in the furthering of a cause. I also added, on behalf of the government, our condolences to the people of Italy, to the former prime minister's family and to the families of the victims of these senseless murders.
The government certainly agrees with the terms of the motion put forward by the hon. member. Of course, I cannot speak on behalf of parliament, but I understand there have been some negotiations with members on the other side and they might be prepared to agree to the terms of the motion. However, I do not know if the negotiations have been undertaken with all concerned.


Hear, hear!


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I have a brief question for the Solicitor General concerning the RCMP operative about whom we spoke yesterday. I ask whether he has been able to secure the co-operation of his colleague, the Minister of Employment and Immigration, and whether he is able to assure the House that any commitments that have been made to this important operative, who has been in the country for some years and who still has services to perform, will be kept.


Without accepting that any commitments have been made, I will say that there have been discussions between myself and the Minister of Employment and Immigration and the matter is well in hand. As I have indicated to the hon. gentleman privately, I will be able to provide him with additional information in due course.
Oral Questions IMMIGRATION


Mr. Speaker, I have a brief supplementary question for the Minister of Employment and Immigration. I believe the minister now realizes that this man wrote to him on several occasions last year. I believe the minister has now briefed himself from the file. Can he give us the assurance that there has been complete co-operation between the RCMP, in terms of its commitments to policy, and his department in carrying them out?


With respect to the individual and the letter which the hon. member was good enough to show me yesterday, I would simply confirm that he is here on a ministerial permit and that no illegal action took place. Certainly, no commitment was made by my department to that individual.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the same minister and follow up on the policy area. Is it the policy of the government to offer landed immigrant status, and with that status the possibility of eventual citizenship status, to non-Canadians in return for work which they have done for our security services in the Canadian national interest?


No, Mr. Speaker, it is not the policy of the government to offer landed immigrant status on that particular basis. I have a responsibility to Canadian citizens to see that individuals who make application to come to this country meet the standards and conditions set for people all over the world. However, from time to time we issue ministerial permits to accommodate people who want to come into this country. Representatives and members of the hon. member's party have requested permission for an individual to come into the country for a week or a month to participate in a particular forum or to make a speech at a particular time. We issue ministerial permits, but we do not give them landed immigrant status. Certainly in so far as citizenship is concerned, that, of course, is within the purview of the Secretary of State.


Mr. Speaker, I am not referring to the short-term minister's permits of which the minister and I have spoken on many occasions. I ask the minister whether he or the officials in his department have from time to time received representations from various governmental departments or ministers to have the Department of Employment and Immigration grant landed immigrant status to non-Canadians who have served in Canada's national interests on security matters. Further, can the minister indicate whether landed immigrant status was offered but turned down by his department after the offer had
3828

March 16, 1978
Oral Questions
been made by a department such as that of the Solicitor General?


Mr. Speaker, with respect to the second part of the hon. member's question, individuals do not receive landed immigrant status. Representations may very well be made by departments. As I have indicated, we accommodate not only the office of the Solicitor General but hon. members opposite with ministerial permits. There has been no blanket policy or, for that matter, individual policy to indicate that landed immigrant status will be granted if a particular operation is performed. That commitment has not been made by my department. If it has been made by others, it was done without the knowledge of my department and certainly without its concurrence.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion and follows questions posed by my colleagues several days ago in the House. On a number of occasions I have approached the minister's department asking that regions of southern and central Ontario be considered for DREE eligibility. In light of increased unemployment which indicates that these areas are every bit as needy as some other regions favoured by his department, is the minister now prepared to give my request serious consideration?


Mr. Speaker, I give very serious consideration to representations made by hon. members on problems which they encounter in their own region but there are of course limits which I must respect. One must remember that I come across problems too, and I would like to say also to the hon. member and to those from this part of Ontario who made representations to ministers that we are currently negotiating amendments to existing agreements with the government of Ontario. So it is possible that within the next few days we will be able to announce that progress has been made which will allow us to help the regions mentioned by the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, on February 8, 1978, approximately five weeks ago, I wrote the minister suggesting that we get together to discuss this matter personally, as it affects my riding. I have not yet received a reply to that request. I ask the minister if he will consider discussing this important matter with me, so that I can present the case for the people of my region.


Mr. Speaker, I can inform the hon. member that he will receive a reply, because I signed the answer to his letter a couple of days ago.


It is in the mail.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. In spite of the success we have had in creating jobs in this country over the years-


Oh, oh!


-by far the best of any other country in the OECD, there are still one million people unemployed. Given the high cost of creating jobs, is the minister giving consideration in a future budget to incentives for voluntary work-sharing and pairing so as to free-up a certain number of jobs?


Mr. Speaker, 1 will take the representation of the hon. member into consideration. When we have a budget, we will see if we can do something along those lines.

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion.
Could the minister tell the House whether there were some new developments in the case concerning the establishment of the ferrosilicon plant in Rimouski?


Mr. Speaker, not as far as I know as I checked the matter not long ago and there was no development in connection with that case.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question. Considering the minister's reply, could he tell the House whether he expects an early settlement of the matter?


Mr. Speaker, not at the rate at which the case is evolving. I would be quite surprised if a decision was taken during the next few months.
March 16, 1978


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State. It relates to the protests which are taking place on many university campuses today. Given the fact that some provincial governments have announced funding cutbacks to universities, which will be reflected in higher tuition fees and reduced student aid, thereby discouraging many young people from attending postsecondary institutions and throwing them into a disastrous labour market, will the minister urge the government to institute an emergency program of federal grants for needy students, since the present federal loan program alone does not meet student needs and is only an invitation to go deeper into debt?


Mr. Speaker, we are concerned about this problem. It is for that reason I hope to be able to introduce in the House very shortly amendments to the Canadian student loans plan. I hope the hon. member will be able to give me his assurance that his party will give prompt and speedy passage to those legislative changes.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, given the fact that the minister knows full well that national students' organizations object to merely increasing loans because that decreases the grants allotted to students, I hope the minister takes my first question seriously. By way of supplementary, since graduating or terminating students must begin repayment of student loans six months after leaving their educational institutions, and in light of the disastrous unemployment rate, will the minister ensure that any bill to amend the Student Loans Act will provide that students need only begin to repay the loans after first obtaining full-time employment?


Mr. Speaker, I have already given the hon. member that assurance privately that I will explore this.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. Has he seen a copy of the question which I asked yesterday in the House concerning the Registered Retirement Savings Plan conversions?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. I have checked with people in my office and in the department. There is absolutely no foundation to that rumour.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask a question of the Minister of Justice in his capacity as the chief law officer of Canada. Has he had any requests from any other minister, or from anyone, to lay any charges under the Official Secrets Act against any persons in the media or in any corporation? If so, has he made a decision in that regard, in light of his statement in the Globe and Mail this morning?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member would agree with me that it is a long-standing tradition in the House for attorneys general or law officers of the Crown not to speculate on whether charges are going to be laid. Therefore, I will not answer his question except to say at this point that I have signed no consent for any prosecutions under the Official Secrets Act. I appreciate the fact that the hon. member for Leeds and other hon. members of the House have a lively interest and, in fact, a right to know as quickly as possible what my position may or may not be. At the same time, I hope the hon. member for Calgary North appreciates that in a matter of this nature my decision should be arrived at with some care.


ST. J£rOME-INVOLVEMENT OF GOVERNMENT IN NEGOTIATIONS RESPECTING HOSTAGE-TAKING INCIDENT
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General to whom I gave notice a few moments ago. The question relates to the hostage-taking incident in St. Jerome at the provincial institution. I acknowledge that it is a provincial responsibility, press releases in the last hour have indicated some form of approach to the federal government, presumably to the Solicitor General or the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
I ask the Solicitor General if it is his position that any direct involvement by the federal government would only be at the request of the province of Quebec and its appropriate minister, or would the federal government become involved on the basis of a request from the negotiators, for example?


Mr. Speaker, the former case is the one I have followed and intend to continue following, namely, that the proper channels will have to be followed, and that would be through the intermediary of the minister of justice of the province of Quebec.
3830

March 16, 1978
Oral Questions NATIONAL DEFENCE


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the President of the Treasury Board. Can the minister tell the House if he has agreed to have available an extra $60 million to give to the Department of National Defence for its capital budget for the financial year 1978-79 or, indeed, for this financial year, if the department discovers that due to adverse foreign exchange costs it has to pay up to $50 million more than it planned to for the purchase of Leopard I tanks? Is there some kind of contractual link between the ministers in this regard?


Mr. Speaker, I think that question should be addressed to the Minister of National Defence.


Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday evening the Minister of National Defence said that he had voluntarily surrendered $60 million to the Treasury Board in cash flow this year on the understanding that as the program progressed, that money would be recovered; in other words, it would be added to the end for when it is required.
Does the minister have any contract or firm understanding that the President of the Treasury Board would be prepared to rise and tell us about in the House of Commons, or is it just a handshake arrangement?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows from being at the committee meeting the other night, this money goes to contracts which could not be entered into without great care this year. They will be added on at the end of the contract. The delivery of equipment will be the same. It is not to be diverted to any other purpose. It is our understanding with the Treasury Board that that will take place.


Mr. Speaker, I hate to ask a second supplementary question of the same minister, but he has had $60 million taken out of his estimates. Does he have anything in writing, any note, any IOU, or some contract with the President of the Treasury Board that he will get that $60 million back?


Mr. Speaker, the President of the Treasury Board and I do not work on contractual arrangements. It is certainly an understanding. The programs will not be impaired.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. In view of the substantial economic development that the

government has indicated will follow the construction and completion of the Alaska pipeline, can the minister advise why his department has not taken any initiatives to discuss economic development with municipal and regional officials in northern British Columbia? Will such discussions take place and, if so, when; or are things going to be left to chance?


Mr. Speaker, there are discussions now going on between my officials and some other officials of the provincial government. Contrary to what the hon. member has suggested, there are no negotiations with municipal authorities but there are consultations between provincial authorities, some officials of provincial departments and officials of my department who are trying to put into force a subagreement on the industrial development of that province which was signed last year.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture. Last week the minister admitted rather reluctantly to the Standing Committee on Agriculture that he was going back to cabinet with a new proposal for the financing of the Co-op Implements' operation in Winnipeg. Does he have a decision on that? He was going to cabinet last Thursday, as we understood it. If he has a decision, could he indicate to the House what it is?


Mr. Speaker, the supplementary estimates for agriculture had an item for Co-op Implements of $8.5 million. We are having some difficulty getting the provinces to come up with an equal amount to match that. I think those difficulties are being ironed out at the present time, because I believe the province of Alberta met with Co-op Implements' officials and their lawyers. I hope they are in agreement by now. I am very optimistic that it will be finalized at the end of this month, which is the deadline.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Public Works. Considering that this year marks the one-hundredth anniversary of the Canadian National Exhibition, and that community spokesmen from the municipal and federal levels in Toronto have been pressing for government of Canada participation in the celebrations, can the minister say if he will act on these appeals and ensure a proper federal presence at the one-hundredth anniversary?
March 16, 1978


Mr. Speaker, we believe it is important for the federal government to have a clear and obvious presence at this function. We are making arrangements for the rental of the automotive building and are gathering together all the federal government exhibitors who for many years have exhibited at the CNE. This year, for the one-hundredth anniversary, we will have them gathered together in one building.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Postmaster General. Because at least one Olympic coin dealer ignored a double-registered letter and telephone calls related to undelivered, prepaid Olympic coin orders, plus the fact that some of these dealers are rumoured to be on the verge of bankruptcy, will the government accept responsibility for supplying the coins ordered or refunding the purchase price to customers, as they operate under federal legislation?


Mr. Speaker, notwithstanding the fact that it is federal legislation, I do not believe that the government has any responsibility with regard to the financial predicament of this Olympic coin dealer. Therefore I think the only thing to do is to try to find a way to help those who seem to have been cheated and to assist them.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Due to the fact that Canadian Olympic coin dealers are not filling orders for which they have received payment-in some cases over a year ago-can the Postmaster General assure this House that the same situation did not occur in other countries?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to tell the hon. gentleman that this question is under review in my department and a decision will be taken soon.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State (Fitness and Amateur Sport). Since the Commonwealth Games will be holding a lacrosse demonstration in Edmonton this summer, and a native
Privilege-Mr. Rodriguez
team has not been invited to participate, could the minister use her good offices to intervene in this situation?


Mr. Speaker, I have already intervened. There was a suggestion that one native team from the St. Regis reserve should participate in the Senior B championships. They declined because they did not wish to attend the Commonwealth Games but would rather attend the Senior B championships to be held this year in British Columbia. I am investigating the possibility of a midget team demonstrating techniques of lacrosse at the Commonwealth Games. This is not yet settled.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Public Works. It concerns a disturbing rumour. Can the minister advise whether his department is giving consideration to closing all post office box lobbies after regular working hours?


Not that I am aware of, Mr. Speaker. I think this question should be addressed to my colleague, the Postmaster General, but certainly I am not aware of any policy in our department to do that.


Mr. Speaker, may 1 put a supplementary question to the Postmaster General? Is there any truth in the rumour that the Post Office department is giving consideration to closing all post office box lobbies after regular working hours?


Mr. Speaker, there is absolutely no foundation to that rumour.


Mr. Speaker, about a week ago, on Wednesday, March 8, I raised a question of privilege relating to alleged electronic surveillance of myself by one Warren Hart. When Your Honour replied to me on that date you made comments which gave me guidance in preparing the motion which I am now prepared to introduce. If you find that I have a prima facie case of privilege I would ask that you put this motion to the House.

March 16, 1978
Business of the House
I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles).
That the allegation by one Warren Hart, in a sworn affidavit, that he taped electronically, on one or more occasions, the hon. member for Nickel Belt, together with the admission by the Solicitor General that the said Warren Hart was for a time in the employ of the RCMP, be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections, for the prupose of inquiring into the said allegation and the circumstances relating to any such electronic surveillance of the said hon. member, including an inquiry as to what happened to any tapes of the said hon. member that may have been made by the said Warren Hart.


Order, please. The hon. member is referring back to circumstances which had been raised several times by himself initially when the information was first brought to the attention of the House, and subsequently by a proposed motion of privilege which I adjudicated upon, as he has just described. At that time I indicated that if the motion was to be purged of discrepancies or alleged discrepancies with statements made by the Solicitor General (Mr. Blais) which have been accepted by the House, and certain other difficulties, it may stand on its own merits. It raises a very serious matter, as I indicated then.
It may very well be that after due deliberation the House ought not to be deprived of the opportunity to address itself to this very important question as to whether electronic surveillance, which is, after all, a very recent and new development, constitutes that kind of interference in the activities of the member of parliament which would stand on the same basis as both classic kinds of interferences which were the basis of privilege in the early days' precedents. Therefore, I hope the hon. member will grant me a few days to consider the matter to see whether the House ought to pronounce itself on this important issue. I will endeavour to adjudicate it in a final way either on Monday or Tuesday.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the usual House business question. I understand that the pipeline bill is now out of the committee. In fact, the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) made reference to that. All of us are happy that is so. Could the Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. MacEachen) tell us what priority he attaches to that in terms of dealing with it now that it is back in the House? While he is doing that, since this is the last House business question that we can ask in the ordinary way before the adjournment at Easter time, could he tell us what the government's intentions are with respect to the legislation we will be dealing with when we come back here April 3?


If we come back.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Grenville-Carleton (Mr. Baker) knows the business for today. Tomorrow we will deal with Bill C-26 then, if possible, Bill C-21. There is a bill in the name of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development (Mr. Faulkner) which may

be given first reading today that would be considered. With respect to the northern pipeline bill which will be reported out of the committee either today or tomorrow, I would propose to deal with that bill probably beginning Tuesday so that hon. members might have an opportunity to put down whatever amendments they wish to place before the House. Following that, the amendments which we hope will come out of the committee relating to the anti-inflation program would be dealt with following the northern pipeline bill.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps it might be helpful to the House if we could be advised today what the government's legislative priorities are as we look toward spring as it turns into summer. Given the fact there are some rumours that we might be facing an election this year, it would be interesting to know what the government intends to deal with specifically prior to that election. If my hon. friend is in a position to tell the House today, it would be most helpful indeed.


Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to indicate what business we have on our priority list, provided the hon. member will not hold me to an obli