Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the fact that an application was made to the Speaker of the House on July 14, 1976, to hold a "Lethbridge night" inviting all MPs, senators and their guests, along with the mayor of St. Laurent, our twin city, and in light of the fact this application was turned down, 1 move, seconded by the hon. member for Swift Current-Maple Creek (Mr. Hamilton):
That the Liberal annual meeting be moved to downtown Ottawa, where they can do the same as the NDP, Creditiste and PC parties by patronizing the business people who meet payrolls, pay taxes and provide a service every day of the year and, I should point out, they also vote.


The presentation of such a motion for discussion, pursuant to the Standing Order, requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under Standing Order 43 on a matter of national importance. All members of parliament have by now received from the Minister of Employment and Immigration (Mr. Cullen) notice of the allocation of funds under the Young Canada Works program. One of the obvious deficiences in the minister's communication is the failure to provide allocation figures and the unemployment rate calculated for all constituencies in Canada. Since this does not allow the individual member of parliament any means of comparison of unemployment rates amongst students by constituencies, or the rise or fall of funding to other constituencies, and since this is a vital piece of information so that not only equity in allocation of the Canada taxpayers' money for Young Canada Works be done, but that it be seen to be done in this election year, I move, seconded by the hon. member for New Westminster (Mr. Leggatt):
That the minister provide every member of parliament this information not later than the end of February.


The presentation of such a motion for discussion, pursuant to Standing Order 43, requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 43, I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to present a motion on an urgent and important matter.
Considering that Air Canada aircraft operate at less than 60 per cent of capacity and that in some areas aircraft are the only means of transportation available; considering that there are about three million people in Canada who are 60 or over and that many would fly more often if travel rates were lower; considering that only private carriers such as Quebecair and Nordair offer reduced rates of some 50 per cent for senior citizens along with the privilege of making reservations at any time, while Air Canada's reduced rates do not vary more than 9 per cent or 10 per cent, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Richmond (Mr. Beaudoin):
That the House urge the Minister of Transport to make any necessary arrangements so that Air Canada provide similar privileges, that is, reduced rates of 50 per cent for senior citizens.


Order. Pursuant to Standing Order 43, presentation of such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the terms of Standing Order 43, I request the unanimous consent of the House to present a motion dealing with an important matter.
As the government is due to announce its new dairy policy next April, as the dairy producers have found themselves in a dramatic situation for a number of years and as their problems are growing, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Elgin (Mr. Wise):
That this House unanimously urge the responsible minister to incorporate in his new policy the following recommendations: (1) That the government adopt a dairy policy applicable for five years; (2) That the Canadian Dairy Commission be granted the same authority and prerogatives as the Canadian Wheat Board; (3) That price indexing apply to dairy production as soon as prices fluctuate by 2 per cent, either way; (4) That imports of cheese be reduced to 15 million pounds; (5) That the new quota calendar be changed to lessen its seasonal character.
Those, then, are the few recommendations that must be included in the new dairy policy.


Under the terms of Standing Order 43, this motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the terms of Standing Order 43, in order to assure the security of the nation in light of the incredibly naive letter written by the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Danson) to "Operations Dismantle", expressing his personal view of Soviet military intentions and his belief that in a crisis the "senior actors" should be kept in the dark until the last minute, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Selkirk (Mr. Whiteway):
That this House urge the Prime Minister to give the Minister of National Defence a less demanding job more in keeping with this demonstrated inability.
[Mr. Speaker.)
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the terms of Standing Order 43, I request the unanimous consent of the House to present an important motion. I move, seconded by the hon. member for Gamelin (Mr. Portelance):
That this House express its condolences to the family of Archambault Institution Warden Michel Roy, criminologist, who was murdered in front of his home in Pointe-aux-Trembles last Tuesday night.


Presentation of such a motion requires unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the decision by the directors of the publicly-owned insurance corporation of British Columbia, ICBC, to hire Mr. Robert Sherrell, an American, at $80,000 per annum, in spite of the fact that there were some 100 applicants from Canada for the job, and in view of the fact that Manpower offices were, as usual, not involved in the hiring process, and in view of the fact that more than one million Canadians are without employment, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Nickel Belt (Mr. Rodriguez):
That the application for a work permit by Mr. Sherrell be denied in view of the many qualified Canadians available for this position.


Hear, hear!


Such a motion can be presented for discussion only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the terms of Standing Order 43, there can be no doubt about the urgency of this motion. In view of the fact that the unanimous report of the subcommittee of the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs on the penitentiary system in Canada was presented to the solicitor general on June 7, 1977, and in view of the fact that the response of the solicitor general to the said report containing 65 recommendations for penal reform in Canada was tabled in the House on August 5, 1977, and since the solicitor general has failed to adopt and implement those recommendations considered unanimously by the subcommittee members to be crucial to meaningful reform, and has otherwise procrastinated in the implementation of the recommendations in the said report, resulting in the renewal of hostage incidents at Millhaven, British Columbia penitentiary and Dorchester, in addition to other incidents such as the slaying of the warden of Archambault penitentiary on Tuesday last, I ask leave to move, seconded by the hon. member for Kingston and the Islands (Miss MacDonald):
That this House direct the government to adopt and implement forthwith the whole of the recommendations as presented to the solicitor general and the government by the non-partisan, unanimous report of the subcommittee on the penitentiary system in Canada.


Under the terms of Standing Order 43, such a motion can be presented for discussion only with unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter which has been the subject of wide agreement in the past. Having regard to the recent hostage-taking at the B.C. penitentiary and at Dorchester, and the fact that in one such incident five men known to be dangerous were brought together in the visitors' area, I ask leave to move, seconded by the hon. member for Oxford (Mr. Halliday):
That the parliamentary subcommittee on penitentiaries be reactivated to investigate these latest incidents and present its findings to the House as soon as possible.


Is there unanimous consent to such a motion?


Agreed.


No.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. From what sources is the minister getting his primary economic advice these days? I ask this question in light of reports yesterday that senior officials in the Department of Finance have said there need to be major economic changes if this country is to achieve its potential over the next three or four years, yet the minister has constantly stated in this House that there is no need for policy changes. So I ask, where is the minister getting his advice from at this time?


I am receiving advice from people in the Department of Finance. I suggest the hon. member should read the article more carefully. We all agree there should be important structural changes in Canada, but we are saying at this time that we cannot solve our problems through fiscal and monetary policies.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I think if the minister read the article carefully he would see that the first recommendation made by officials of the Department of Finance was that there should be a shift in our monetary and fiscal policy. On that point, I should like to ask the minister if he has had discussions with the governor of the Bank of Canada about the fact that the rate of increase in the money supply has gone up very substantially, because for the first time in the history of Canada a high proportion of new debt is being financed through the bank-in fact, 49 per cent.
Has the minister talked with the governor of the Bank of Canada about this new policy that the bank is following, and does he understand how inflationary this will be on the economy in the course of the next six months?


Mr. Speaker, I meet with the governor of the Bank of Canada every week and we discuss these problems. As everyone knows, the governor of the Bank of Canada has told the nation that he will operate his monetary policies within a certain framework. He is within the framework he indicated to the nation a few months ago.


A final supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, in relation to the answer which the minister has just provided. How can he say that the governor of the Bank of Canada is still falling within that framework, when the rate of increase in the money supply has been tremendous in the last three months? Will the minister get the assurance of the governor of the Bank of Canada that an explanation for this fundamental change in policy will be made public by him?


Mr. Speaker, he has not changed his policy at all. I explained that he had set a limit on the growth of the


Oral Questions
money supply, and he is within the limit that he set for himself.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Finance. The document which the minister tabled recently indicates that he will be calling for continued restraint on government spending at all levels. At the same time, it indicates that government deficits will continue to provide a strong stimulus to economic activity until 1981. There seems to be a conflict here. Can the minister advise how governments, including this one, expect to carry on with this greater deficit if they exercise restraint on not only their programs but on the tax intake?


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, I was arguing across the floor with the previous questioner, so I would ask the hon. member to repeat the question.


Mr. Speaker, it is a simple question. The paper that was filed by the minister in the past day or so calls for continued restraint on government spending at all levels. At the same time, however, government deficits are projected to continue to provide a strong stimulus to economic activity between now and 1981. How will governments, including this one, finance greater deficits if they exercise such restraint and, presumably, exercise restraint on the amount of taxes taken in?


Mr. Speaker, we have said we are running a high deficit, and we are not planning to have a higher deficit this year. I said earlier that we face a particular problem next year because of the interest we will have to pay on certain bond issues which were circulated in 1969. The cash requirement will be that much greater next year. We are trying to keep expenditures within the growth of the GNP. I hope every member of the House realizes we managed to do that in the last two years, and we will do it next year as well.


A final supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. It appears to me that the provinces are very concerned about having continuing and even higher deficits, because this will affect their prime ratings in money markets in the United States. How can the minister put this particular situation before them, when it appears to me that the provinces will not agree to it?


Mr. Speaker, we have discussed this problem with the provinces. I think the cash requirements of the provinces are less, relatively speaking, than those of the federal government. I am very pleased to see the hon. member preoccupied with the size of the deficit, because yesterday his leader proposed that we increase it by $2 billion.


Another half-truth.


Mr. Speaker, I direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Would the minister confirm a news report that has just come over the wire, to the effect that 13 Soviet nationals have been found to be involved in inadmissible activities in Canada, in clear contravention of the Official Secrets Act and, if so, would the minister tell the House what, if any, action has been taken?


Mr. Speaker, 1 can confirm the general report as stated by the hon. member. I will be making a full statement on this matter at the appropriate time, as near to three o'clock as possible.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Postmaster General. First, I should like to congratulate the minister on his appointment to this important federal institution.


Hear, hear!


In view of the effectiveness of committees of the House in bringing about reform of other federal institutions experiencing grave difficulties, will the Postmaster General agree to establish a special committee of the House, in the session, to inquire into the postal service, into the administration of the Post Office, into labour management relations therein, and into the advisability of converting the Post Office into some form of Crown corporation?


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank my colleague from Scarborough East for his congratulations. Probably-


That is a really bad show: a fixed question right at the beginning of oral questions.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the hon. member for Scarborough East for his congratulations. They will probably be the last I shall receive in this House, I might as well enjoy it as long as it lasts.
I have said in public, on television and in other places, that I would be coming into this job with as open a mind as possible.


Many suggestions have been made, such as a royal commission, a committee, and a Crown corporation.


What about nationalization?


Nationalization has already been done.
[ Translation]
But all hon. members will understand, I think, that the negotiations are going on. Since I have taken office, mediators have been appointed in both cases with the CUPW and the GLT. We also had negotiations with the Treasury Board because, as you know, it is the employer of the letter carriers. 1 have already met for two hours-

We are doing everything possible to make the Post Office as economical as possible and to provide the best service to the people.


Hear! hear!

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Solicitor General.
Following the murder of Archambault Institution Warden Michel Roy, I moved a motion yesterday pursuant to Standing Order 43 to ask the House to consider seriously increased violence in Canada. My question is as follows: Given the growing number of murdered policemen, prison guards and even the murder of a warden, is the Solicitor General in a position to tell the House whether he will seriously study this matter with his cabinet colleagues and then present to Parliament a bill to amend the Criminal Code and impose harsher penalties on those who show no respect for life? Is the Solicitor General prepared to take a step in such direction?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his comments. Indeed, as I said yesterday when I thanked him and his colleagues for their representations, this is quite a serious matter. As for his allegations about the growing number of certain crimes which he specified, I would ask him to provide particulars on which his allegations and representations are based.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a supplementary question.
The invitation I have just received from the Solicitor General deserves a reply and today, in order to be able to provide him with the necessary information, I had a question put on the order paper requesting full details on events which have occurred over the past few years, details which, as soon as I am provided with them, I shall convey to him. I hope he will agree to look into this as soon as he receives the information
Oral Questions
and then seriously consider introducing legislation to amend the Criminal Code so that we may enjoy a little more peace and order in Canada-


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Now that the government has made available its document prepared for the recent meeting of finance ministers and for the upcoming first ministers' conference on Canada's medium-term economic approaches, projections and targets, will the Prime Minister, in his usual co-operative manner, make available the governments' document on short-term projections, targets and proposals to deal with the current economic crisis, which it intends to make available to the first ministers next week? I presume that such a document exists.


1 will consider the hon. lady's request.


Will the Prime Minister state, since he is not putting forth any such document here in the House, whether he is also declaring that there is an absence of any such proposals, and that what in fact he is doing is throwing on to the provinces the onus to deal with the economic situation which his government has created, thereby declaring not only bankruptcy in fiscal terms in this country but bankruptcy in ideas as well?


Mr. Speaker, surely that was an argument rather than a question.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. It has to do with the final plan for the western transcontinental passenger service. Since many representations have been received by members of parliament and the commission about the scheduling and structure of the final plan, as well as the potential lay-offs, and given the fact that the railway transport committee did not provide an opportunity for a number of citizens in the smaller communities of northern Ontario to present their views on the railway passenger service, what action will the minister take to ensure that the opinions and views of the people who are being grossly affected by the plan will, in fact, be heard and taken into consideration?


Oral Questions


I should like to say, first of all, that as far as labour questions and lay-offs are concerned, we have extremely good working relationships with the unions and their representatives and have made some break-through agreements and, indeed, received some praise from the union leadership in connection with that work.
So far as the final plan is concerned, I think we are moving into a new phase where the positive, forward-looking management of VIA Rail, under the leadership of Frank Roberts, will be examining to the fullest extent all the opportunities for maintaining and expanding passenger service on the railways where that makes sense. He has been doing this by discussing the problem with municipal authorities and provinces across the country, and we will want that continued. Of course, with regard to some services, such as those in northern Ontario, a number of views have been made known to me directly and also through members of parliament representing the area.


Am I to take it, then, that the president of VIA Rail may be taking into consideration the views and opinions of people who reside along the 900-mile stretch of the railroad involved in northern Ontario, so they will be able to advance their views and have them receive fair consideration?
In view of the fact that the railway transport committee did not provide a vehicle for these people to be heard, is the minister contemplating the establishment of formalized hearings so that formal notice can be presented and these people can present their views?


Mr. Speaker, I think that might depend on the form of action which is recommended. Obviously, the final plan has a certain weight and power from the point of view of its being a Canadian Transport Commission decision. But as the VIA Rail plans, in concert with various areas in the provinces, are developed, they will be translated into more positive applications for relief or approval and decision by the CTC. That may very well provide a further opportunity for the opinions of various individuals to be heard.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. It has to do with a judgment of the Supreme Court of Canada in an action respecting the powers of the board of censors of a province to make orders and directives which are not challengeable. The Supreme Court of Canada decided, on a majority of five to four, that the board had the right to make orders. I know the Prime Minister will be interested in this matter because in past years he was a proponent of civil liberties organizations.


"Was", past tense.
[Mr. Mazankowski.J


He was, when he was not in his present position. I was speaking about the days when he was an outspoken member of a civil liberties organization, and I am not speaking in a facetious manner.
In the judgment of the Supreme Court of Canada, five judges determined one course-which was the final judgment-and four dissented. The Chief Justice of Canada, a very eminent judge, in dissenting said, among other things, that such a board can ban any film, even political or religious, and does not have to explain why. That was not part of the judgment which was handed down by the majority.
In view of the seriousness of the implications which flow from this decision, would the Prime Minister consider submitting a question to the Supreme Court of Canada to ascertain whether boards shall have the right to make determinations and not have to give the reasons therefor? Because if they have that right, that is the end of freedom. I suggest that the question be referred to the Supreme Court of Canada, or a committee of this House be set up to look into the matter, because if the law stands as it is being interpreted now, freedom will hang by a very weak cord.


Mr. Speaker, if I understood the right hon. gentleman, he was reading from the dissenting minority opinion, in which case he should be reassured, because in the supreme court it is the majority decision which prevails.


The hon. member said it did not affect the main judgment.


Mr. Speaker, the Chief Justice of Canada, the Right Hon. Bora Laskin, pointed out the grave danger of boards having the power to make determinations without giving the reasons therefor. As I remember, the Prime Minister in his palmy days held the same view. Therefore, I wonder if he would submit this question to the Supreme Court of Canada so that once and for all we can have the matter determined, so that boards do not become absolute monarchs who do not allow the individual to know the basis of orders or directives they make.


Mr. Speaker, I presume the court in this case was basing its decision on its interpretation of the statute. If there is to be a remedy, it seems to me it would be a change in the statute. I believe this is a statute passed by the government of Ontario. Perhaps that would be the proper course to follow.


Nova Scotia.


Yes, it is a statute passed by the government of Nova Scotia.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the majority judgment apparently a statute cannot be enacted by the Parliament of Canada. I am asking that the Prime Minister follow the course he followed with such vocal success in the days when he was at the Bar, and say that this kind of thing is wrong.


Mr. Speaker, what I did when I was at the bar was study a statute to see if it should be changed. That is what I am arguing now. It seems to me that that is the position of the right hon. gentleman, in saying that the statute has dangerous implications. If that is so, surely the argument should be made to those who passed the statute and have the power to amend it.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the fact that an Ontario select committee reported yesterday and made recommendations to save thousands of jobs in the nickel industry through a combination of a 30-day stockpiling of nickel, 30 days of job-sharing, and a retirement plan, that this proposal was supported by a majority of the committee, including all the provincial Liberals on the committee, and that this is the only positive proposal which has been put forward by either the federal government or the provincial government to save these thousands of jobs, can the minister tell this House if the government will at long last take positive steps to protect these jobs and the communities involved by supporting the proposals of the Ontario select committee?


Mr. Speaker, I very much want to see those proposals. I have not yet received them. We have asked the Ontario government to send them to us, but they have not yet arrived. I believe they will be in our possession later this afternoon. When we receive them, we will take a very good look at them.


In view of the fact that the provincial select committee has at last come forward with a plan which will protect the employment of over 3,000 miners, and the communities in which they live, for at least 60 days, that the federal Liberal government has put forward absolutely no plans to protect the jobs of these workers, and that what is proposed by this select committee is that an interest-free loan be given to Falconbridge and Inco so they can stockpile for one month, can the minister tell the House if he is prepared to enter into negotiations with the provincial government and to put up money to save the jobs of miners in the Sudbury basin and at Thompson, Manitoba?


Mr. Speaker, it is quite clear that the federal government has responded on a number of occasions, suggesting profitable avenues for the company and the union to pursue. Without accepting the hon. member's preamble, 1 go back to my earlier answer and say that I am prepared to consider what the select committee has proposed. However, I
Oral Questions
have not yet seen what has been proposed and until I do later this day I can add nothing more.


Mr. Speaker, the lay-offs are to take place on Monday: on Monday, 3,000 workers in Sudbury will be hitting the bricks. In view of the fact that the proposal which was made yesterday must go into effect as quickly as possible if we are to avoid the lay-offs, can the minister tell the House if he is prepared to go to his office after the question period, get on the telephone or telex and get the proposals from the Ontario government so that a decision can be made as quickly as possible? Can the minister tell the House that?


Order, please. The hon. member for Moncton.


Come on; get up and answer the question. Don't sit there like a dummy; get up.


Order, please. The hon. member for Moncton.


Mr. Speaker-


Answer the question. You don't care about workers. You have a nice fat job, haven't you?


Order, Mr. Speaker.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Postmaster General, to whom 1 would like to extend my personal congratulations, having been associated with him as a colleague in the municipal field for many years. Will the minister advise this House exactly when, and on what basis, the restraints placed on house to house mail delivery service will be lifted? Does the minister intend to discontinue house to house mail delivery service altogether, or is he going to follow the quid pro quo system which was followed in the Toronto area recently, as reported in the Toronto Globe and Mail on Monday.


Mr. Speaker, I must say that we are not at all planning to discontinue house to house mail delivery service. Let us say that we are looking just now into ways we could improve this delivery service in urban areas which have developed very rapidly.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the minister why the alleged restraints placed on house to house mail delivery were instituted in the Scarborough area, in the
2694


Oral Questions
Brandywine area subdivision, and not in other parts of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, it is not a question of house delivery; it is a question of principle. I am trying as much as possible to follow some of the advice given by the opposition when they say we spend too much. We have a deficit of $600 million in the Post Office, and we are trying to reduce that deficit and still maintain the best service we can with the least possible money.


Mr. Speaker, 1 still ask the minister why he would pick one area in central Canada and not do the same thing in the maritime provinces, where employment is needed and where this service is required.


1 would like to mention to the hon. member for Moncton that I am sorry about the inconvenience and nuisance in Moncton. But it is also happening in Scarborough, Toronto, Windsor and other places.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. It involves Inco, Falconbridge, Sun Life and branch plants of other global corporations, and given the kind of information preferred by the United States Senate finance committee, that these corporations control about twice the liquid assets of all the nation states in which they function, what initiatives is this government taking, along with other governments, at the OECD, UNCTAD and the IMF, to try to right the balance of power that exists between global corporations and nation states?


Mr. Speaker, I am by no means certain that I can provide a thorough answer to the question asked in the length of time you would permit. I think the hon. member knows that there are a number of studies under way at the OECD with regard to the conduct and the impact of multinational corporations. Also, the Prime Minister, along with the other leaders, at the London summit in May of last year agreed to further studies with regard to the conduct of other nationals. Perhaps 1 can serve the hon. member best by giving him a detailed, written, comprehensive report.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. On January 30, in reply to a question of mine concerning the cost of recovery of the Russian satellite, the Minister of National Defence replied, in part, "the international regime will meet its

responsibilities as was indicated to the Department of External Affairs by the Soviet ambassador". Does that mean Russia has given us formal assurances that it will pay all search and recovery costs and, if not, what does that remark mean?


Mr. Speaker, I was not in the House when that remark was made. I would like to look at it in detail. I can tell the hon. member in general terms, of course, that yesterday-I believe he is familiar with this fact-I tabled in the House notes which we had sent to the Soviet embassy as well as to the Secretary General of the United Nations. Each one of these notes was designed to establish the fact that we were now satisfied that the debris was, in fact, part of the Soviet satellite.
This was an initial, and necessary, first step under international rules in order to lay the groundwork for a possible claim. So far-I believe the hon. member is also aware of this-the Soviets have not acknowledged specifically that the debris found in Canada is, indeed, part of their satellite. There will have to be an acknowledgement, first of all, on their part before the next phase can take place.


Mr. Speaker, I agree with the Secretary of State for External Affairs, and only yesterday, at long last, 1 read the note which he sent to Russia. This note was sent in accordance with article V, paragraph 1, of the treaty. It is now obvious that we have not recovered the core of the nuclear reactor. Can the minister give us any assurance that Russia will not claim that our failure to request assistance under paragraph 4 extended unduly the time and cost of recovery operations? In other words, I suggest that if the U.S.S.R. looks at the list of recovered items and decides they are worthless, we will be stuck with meeting the entire cost of the search and recovery operations.


Mr. Speaker, the latter part of the question is, of course, a conclusion to which I can neither agree nor disagree at the moment, not having heard from the Soviets. But 1 repeat, that I believe we have taken all the steps which we can take at this particular time, and we have taken the necessary first step. These were to indicate to the Soviet Union, unmistakably, that we believe the debris concerned in this case belongs to the Soviet satellite. The next steps will be through the United Nations mechanisms to which the hon. member made reference. I am going to the United Nations tomorrow and I am sure 1 will have an opportunity to discuss this matter with Mr. Waldheim on the weekend and to clarify more fully what procedures should be followed from this point.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern De-


velopment. It is related to the recent report that four officials from the district office in Alberta involved in the Indian economic development program have been suspended for improper conduct in the mismanagement of departmental funds. I would like to ask the minister if he will confirm the fact that the RCMP are investigating the allegations. Would he also indicate who requested the investigation, and the date it commenced?


Yes, Mr. Speaker, that is accurate. The investigation was requested yesterday by my officials. It was based on an internal study of financial procedures which flowed from the problems we had a month or so ago when I appointed a new acting director to try to straighten out these things. I think that responds to the question asked.


Mr. Speaker, one final question. In view of the fact that these concerns were raised by members on this side of the House almost nine months ago, including during debate on an allocated day June 22, 1977, would the minister indicate if the departmental review has been completed? Would he also indicate whether he will refer the results of that review to the Standing Committee on Indian Affairs and Northern Development who have a very particular interest in this matter?


Mr. Speaker, I have no problem in referring the matter to the standing committee. In fact, I am rather looking forward to discussing this general problem with the standing committee when the estimates are before it. If there is a review which has a finite end and a report emerges from it, I will be pleased to bring the report with me when I appear before the standing committee. I think in this case it stemmed largely from my concern about charges that were being made, and I instructed my officials to look at the financial control procedures to see if any were not acceptable, were not correct or were being abused, and to clear them up. It may, in fact predate that, but my impression is that the recent inquiry stemmed from those instructions.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Solicitor General, who is by now, I am sure, aware of the message received by the Toronto Globe and Mail from a caller identifying himself as a representative of the prisoners' revolutionary army, claiming responsibility for the tragic death of warden Michel Roy. They threatened further executions if the report of the subcommittee was not made public. It was, of course, made public some nine months ago.
Is the minister able to determine, from information received from his officials, the existence of such a group and, if such a
Oral Questions
group exists, what is the opinion of his advisers as to the serious nature of its activities?


Mr. Speaker, from the reports I have received to date, no link can be established between that one telephone call and any of the events in Montreal. I hope there is no such link. Further, I hope we do not play up that telephone call any more than it absolutely deserves. I will deal with it very seriously, but not with any exaggerated seriousness.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the Solicitor General for that answer. I want to ask a supplementary, because some two weeks ago the Quebec human rights league warned of possible very serious trouble at Archambault. This was followed up last Monday in a letter that appeared in Le Journal de Montreal from Paul Rose, a member of the prisoners' committee, warning of some trouble.
What steps were taken as a result of those warnings, in terms of extraordinary precautions to safeguard correctional officers, and what steps are now being taken as a result of that terrible tragedy, the assassination, to protect correctional officers not just on duty but elsewhere?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is, of course, aware of this because of his very intimate co-operation with my predecessor, in terms of the implementation of the recommendation of the subcommittee of the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs. He is also aware that the subcommittee directed its attention to the Archambault situation, which left some serious doubts as to the way it was being operated. He is also well aware that the Rose letter could well be attributed to some of the tightening up in the operation that took place as a result of the subcommittee's recommendation.
We are aware of some dissatisfaction among certain elements of the inmate population. We are taking very serious additional measures in order to protect penitentiary personnel both at the work site and in the general area of their residences.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the President of the Treasury Board. Since many committees of this House are standing by for the usual tabling of the main estimates, is the President of the Treasury Board in a position to tell us when they will be tabled?


Mr. Speaker I plan to table them within the next two weeks, probably about February 22.
8003 l-29'/i


Oral Questions INDUSTRY


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. A week ago a Vancouver newspaper warned as follows:
Grim warnings of zooming shoe prices, the virtual disappearance of low-priced imports, supply shortages and retail bankruptcies are rumbling through the B.C. shoe industry.
As the minister knows, this is imputed to be a direct result of the import quotas last month. Has the minister been in touch with people in the shoe industry in Vancouver? Can he tell the House whether these very dire warnings are exaggerated, whether his department is considering the situation, and whether it might mean some changes in the import quotas that have been put in place?
Hon. Jack H. Horner (Minister of Industry, Trade and
Commerce): Mr. Speaker, I wish to inform the House that those dire warnings are exaggerated. What we are attempting to do is limit an importer to the average importation of the 1974-75 year. There were no dire shortages in those years, and there will probably not be any dire shortages in 1978 and 1979.


Mr. Speaker, an official at Eaton's in Vancouver was asked about this and he pointed out-and I again quote from the article:
-the estimated cutback of 11 million imported shoes would mean domestic producers must increase their output by 50 per cent to make up the shortfall.
He went on to say that he discussed this matter with manufacturers in Canada and there is no possible way it can be done. Is the minister aware of this situation? Can he advise whether the figures quoted in the article are correct? If they are, we are in a serious shortfall position as far as the supply of shoes is concerned.


Mr. Speaker, I have not seen the article and I cannot confirm the figure. In 1976, the Canadian shoe manufacturing industry had about 56 per cent of the Canadian market. In the first eight months of 1977, the share of the Canadian market to the Canadian shoe industry dropped to about 41 per cent. We are trying to bring it up to at least 50 per cent or 56 per cent of what it was in 1974 and 1975.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. It is with regard to a possible strike, or boycott, by some meat producers in the prairies toward the end of February. I am sure the minister knows that the high level of imports and low prices are the cause of a lot of unrest on the prairies. Will he

reconsider the decision to increase imports by two million pounds in 1978, and set import controls that will progressively increase the Canadian producers' share of our domestic market?


Mr. Speaker, Canadian producers have about 93 per cent or 94 per cent of the Canadian market. We exported more beef last year than we imported. If one totals up live and dressed beef, the two million pound increase to Australia and New Zealand is an increase of 1.5 per cent to those countries. That corresponds with the increase in growth of the population in Canada. That, to me, is a very small increase.


Since some cattle prices in this country are between 20 per cent and 30 per cent below the cost of production, will the minister now introduce the bill promised by the Minister of Agriculture last fall, in Saskatchewan, namely, a meat trade authority to monitor and control imports of beef and to monitor the whole beef industry in this country?


Mr. Speaker, I suppose all kinds of bills could be introduced into parliament. Whether they would be passed is another matter. However, I want to assure the hon. member and the House that the importation of beef is being very closely monitored by my department. It is certainly in reliable hands.


Oh, oh!


With respect, the minister did not answer my question. I asked whether it is the intention of the government to introduce this bill, because the Minister of Agriculture promised last fall that if the beef industry was in trouble we would get such a bill. Is it the intention of the government to introduce it?


As I have already answered, Mr. Speaker, the beef industry is being monitored very closely by my department with regard to the question of imports and exports. We will continue to do that.


Mr Speaker, my question is to the Prime Minister. Last night on "The Watson Report", the Solicitor General was asked if he had been asked by the Prime Minister whether there might be any matters which might lead him, the Solicitor General, not to be able to carry out his responsibilities. He was asked whether that question had been asked by the Prime Minister prior to his appointment as Solicitor General. As I understand it, the Solicitor General said he would not answer that question.
Will the Prime Minister tell the House whether he, personally, as head of government, asked the present Solicitor Gener-


al whether there were any activities or events in the past which might prevent him from carrying out his responsibilities in that very sensitive position?


Mr. Speaker, I answered that question in general terms, because it was asked in general terms, about two weeks ago. The Leader of the Opposition asked me what procedure I followed before appointing people to the cabinet. I told him the kind of clearance 1 ask for. The answer is the same in this case.


Mr. Speaker, it was the very general nature of the response earlier that caused me to raise the question again. The Prime Minister said earlier that he usually asks questions of this kind. I would like to know whether, first in the case of the present Solicitor General and, second, in the case of the former solicitor general, the Prime Minister asked these two people, prior to their appointment, whether there was anything in their background, or any activity that might render them unfit or unable to carry out the position of Solicitor General.
It is a specific question relating, first, to the present Solicitor General and, second, to the previous solicitor general. What was the standard of questioning and care exercised by the Prime Minister, personally, in each of these cases? Did he ask that question of each of them?


I repeat, if the Leader of the Opposition refers to my earlier answer, I indicated that I always ask the security services of the RCMP to inform me of anything which might be negative in the file of any individual I am considering appointing to cabinet. That is the first step. The second step is that I am satisfied that the lady or gentleman I appoint to cabinet will be able to exercise that role honourably.


We know what the general procedure is; we know that in this case the screening authority did its job. We want to know whether the Prime Minister did his own job; whether he, personally, put to those two ministers, before their appointment, the question whether there was anything in their backgrounds which might prevent them carrying out their duties. In the case of the previous solicitor general, did the Prime Minister ask that question, personally? In the case of the present Solicitor General, did the Prime Minister ask that question, personally?


I have told the Leader of the Opposition that I always satisfy myself that the members appointed would serve in that office with honour and distinction, and 1 am satisfied that they have.


Hear, hear!


This is a very important matter relating to the standards of the government. We in the House of Commons have a right to know what action the Prime Minister took. He said he satisfied himself. I want to know whether the Prime Minister, personally and specifically, asked the present Solicitor General or the previous solicitor general whether there was
Espionage
anything in their backgrounds which might prevent them carrying out the responsibilities of this sensitive portfolio. Did the Prime Minister ask that question, specifically, in one or both those cases?


It seems to me the essence of my answer is that I am satisfied when I appoint a person to the cabinet. The process by which I satisfy myself, the reasons for which I reach my conclusion, the questions I ask and the answers I receive, are none of the hon. member's business.


Hear, hear!


Shame!


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 41 I wish to table, in both official languages, the first semi-annual report of the Department of Industry, Trade and Commerce on international economic boycotts.


Mr. Speaker, at noon today, on my instructions, the Under-Secretary of State for External Affairs requested the Ambassador of the Soviet Union to withdraw 11 Soviet nationals from Canada for engaging in inadmissible activities in violation of the Official Secrets Act, and of course of their status in Canada. Two other Soviet nationals who were involved have already departed Canada but will not be permitted to return. A strong protest has been conveyed to the Soviet authorities about these activities.
The Soviet Ambassador was informed that the Canadian government had irrefutable evidence that all 13 persons had been involved in an attempt to recruit a member of the RCMP in order to penetrate the RCMP Security Service. Nine of the Soviet nationals still in Canada are employees of the Soviet embassy, one is an official of the Soviet Trade Office in Ottawa, and one is a member of the International Civil Aviation Organization Secretariat in Montreal.

The Canadian authorities have informed the Ambassador of the Soviet Union today of the discovery of an attempt by the


Espionage
Soviet intelligence service to recruit a member of the RCMP in order to penetrate the RCMP Security Service. Thirteen nationals of the Soviet Union have been involved in this operation. Two have already left Canada and the eleven others have been requested to do so. Nine are employees of the Soviet Embassy in Ottawa; one is an employee of the Secretariat of the International Civil Aviation Organization in Montreal and one is an official of the Soviet Trade Office in Ottawa.
Not only did this operation involve a large number of persons but it had been elaborately planned, involving coded messages, clandestine meetings, secret concealment devices and the payment of $30,500. This unsuccessful operation was mounted by the Soviet intelligence service in April, 1977. It has involved no compromise to national security.

The Soviet nationals involved are:
Igor P. Vartanian, First Secretary responsible for sports and cultural affairs, Soviet embassy, Ottawa.
Nikolai M. Talanov, counsellor, Soviet embassy, Ottawa.
Anatoly A. Mikhalin, official of the Soviet Foreign Trade Office, Ottawa.
Vadim A. Borishpolets, attache (Consular Affairs), Soviet embassy, Ottawa.
Vladimir L. 