Mr. Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the energy shortage and the fact that the province of Nova Scotia has substantial coal reserves, and whereas the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce stated that the government is committed to increasing research and development, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Cape Breton Highlands-Canso (Mr. MacEachen):
That the Treasury Board give immediate approval to the financing required to set up a coal development centre at the College of Cape Breton to do research into the liquefaction of coal and other research which could ultimately lead to increased uses for coal and to reduced dependency on foreign oil in the Atlantic area of Canada.


Such a motion can be presented for debate at this time, pursuant to Standing Order 43, only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, my motion concerns the ongoing problems at the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency and the resignation of its chairman, Murray McBride.
I have been informed that the remuneration of CEMA's general manager, Max Roytenberg, is $105,000 a year plus expenses, which exceeds the salary of the Prime Minister by many thousands of dollars; and, further, that Mr. Roytenberg has made his wife and a company called Roygold Marketing Systems Ltd., which Roytenberg owns in whole or in part, the
beneficiaries of translation contracts with CEMA. Because of that, I wish to move, seconded by the hon. member for Oshawa (Mr. Broadbent):
That this House immediately call for an investigation of CEMA by the House of Commons Standing Committee on Agriculture.


The presentation of such a motion for debate, pursuant to Standing Order 43, would require the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under Standing Order 43.
Considering that, in his own words in the House almost a year ago, the new Secretary of State charged that federal cultural institutions were being neglected, and considering that, while the minister attempts to address cultural problems, he is also responsible for the critical communications and social policy fields, and considering that meanwhile Canada's largest urban community has virtually no representation in the inner cabinet, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Trinity (Miss Nicholson);
That this House urges the Prime Minister to relieve the Secretary of State of his social responsibilities to concentrate on vital cultural and communication issues in the inner cabinet, and at the same time urges the Prime Minister to consider appointing the Minister of National Health and Welfare to the inner circle to take over the social policy area and also give representation to more than two million Torontonians.


Is there unanimous consent for such a motion?


Agreed.


No.

October 23, 1979


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 and ask for the unanimous consent of the House to discuss a motion relating to a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
My motion deals with Bill C-6 and the amendments to the Old Age Security Act which have been proposed in the House. Given the fact that there will be discrimination against persons whose spouse died in the six months preceding the date of royal assent, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Saint-Leonard-Anjou (Miss Begin):
That the House direct the government to make eligible for the spouse's allowance all persons whose pensioned spouse has died after the introduction of the legislation.


The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, this motion can be put to debate only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, 1 rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, to put forward a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the previous administration's signing of a $14 million lease, four days before the general election, for space it did not require, since the said property at 219 Laurier Avenue West, Ottawa, is owned by a company whose vice president is reported to be the hon. member for Laurier (Mr. Berger), and so that the people of Canada may be assured the contract was not, in fact, political patronage, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Saint John (Mr. Ferguson):
That the Minister of Public Works immediately launch a complete investigation into the negotiations and signing of a lease between the Government of Canada and the Montreal Alouettes Football Club Inc. regarding the space at 219 Laurier Avenue West, Ottawa, Ontario, and report the findings of the investigation to the House.


The introduction of such a motion for debate at this time would require the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?
[Mr. Speaker.!


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, to present a motion of urgent and pressing necessity.
In light of the fact the present government stated that it aimed to increase research and development spending to a target figure of 2.5 per cent of the gnp, and in view of its severe cutbacks in a number of research programs, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles):
That the Minister of State for Science and Technology make a statement shortly as to what steps will be taken to meet this target of 2.5 per cent of the ONP for research and development.


Presentation of such a motion for debate requires unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the provisions of Standing Order 43. It arises out of the hardship being caused at the present time to several poor persons and recently bereaved persons.
I move, seconded by the hon. member for Glengar-ry-Prescott-Russell (Mr. Ethier):
That the government cause to be discontinued immediately the practice by which a surviving spouse is automatically expected to reimburse the treasury in the event of an overpayment of a pension to a person who subsequently dies, when that overpayment has been due to an error by a public servant: and, furthermore, that henceforth any attempt to recover an overpayment to a person afterwards deceased, no matter for what reason, should be directed exclusively to the estate of the deceased person.


Such a motion for debate can be presented at this time only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.
October 23, 1979


Mr. Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that since the time medicare was instituted in Saskatchewan, many doctors traditionally have not participated in the medicare plan, that 30 per cent of doctors in that province now are billing patients directly, that less than 5 per cent of doctors in Manitoba are operating outside the plan, and that there is a significant decrease in the budget for hospital insurance and medicare programs in Saskatchewan, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Dauphin (Mr. Ritchie):
That the Minister of National Health and Welfare advise the recently appointed Hall commission to study immediately the reasons for the deteriorating budgetary contribution by the Saskatchewan NDP government for medicare, as well as the significant increase of extra billing by doctors in Saskatchewan.


The presentation of such a motion for debate can be done only with unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that President Carter is coming to Canada next month, and that the multinational oil companies dealing in spot markets in Rotterdam, the Caribbean and Singapore are an important cause of the world oil price crisis, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Sault Ste. Marie (Mr. Symes):
That the Prime Minister try to encourage President Carter to call a meeting with Japan and Germany to bring pressure to bear on these multinational companies to strictly forbid their dealing in this spot market.


Presentation of such a motion for debate requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.
_	493
Oral Questions


[ English ]
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs based upon the aide-memoire which her government delivered to the American government on Saturday last, a copy of which we received today.
In view of the fact that the aide-memoire refers to preference as stated last April 16 by the former government, preference as expressed on September 28, 1979, by the new government, and no reference to any expression of interest or concern in the intervening period, will the minister not agree that it would have reinforced the Canadian position had she referred to the alleged representations that were made throughout the summer according to the Prime Minister or, alternatively-as I believe-that her aide-memoire is a very clear indication that the government lost the summer in making its views known to the United States government on this very important question?


Mr. Speaker, I am sorry that the hon. member was not here the other day-or, at least, if he was here, he was not listening-when the Prime Minister very clearly outlined the number of contacts which this government had with the government of the United States over the summer concerning this matter.
It was raised on a number of occasions by Canadian officials at the embassy in Washington; it was raised on a number of occasions by direct representation from Ottawa, and the aide-memoire which was sent to Washington last weekend confirmed the position that this government had taken throughout and had stated, namely, a strong preference for the Foothills option, and that it was very concerned-and reiterated that concern-about the possibility of increased tanker traffic on the west coast.


Mr. Speaker, I would tell the hon. minister that I was present and listened to the answer by the Prime Minister, in which he failed to indicate that the contacts made had anything to do with stating preference for the Foothills pipeline.


Hear, hear!


He said meetings were held; but the Prime Minister, in reply to a question by the hon. member for Hamilton East, said the American government understood, and there was no doubt. But never did he say these meetings had to do with Foothills.

October 23, 1979
Oral Questions
1 would follow up by referring to an answer given in the other place last Wednesday by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce and Minister of State for Economic Development in which he said that throughout the summer, members of the government had strongly encouraged and urged-and these are his words-"this preference on the American government". He included the Secretary of State for External Affairs as one of those who had strongly urged and encouraged the American government. I should like to ask whether she did this with Secretary Vance or, more generally, will she tell us to whom she made these representations, and where?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to say to the hon. member that, obviously, I seem to have more faith in the officials of the Department of External Affairs-


Oh, oh!


-to convey messages to the government of the United States than he has; and that is a sad reflection on the time that he was there in that position.


Hear, hear!


I may also say that 1 raised this question, along with a number of other matters, when I had discussions with Secretary Vance.


When?


Mr. Speaker, I want to tell the minister that I also have faith in the officials of the department, but 1 see that the government now, instead of undertaking its ministerial responsibilities, is relying on officials in order to carry a message to the American government-and we find that unacceptable.
1 would direct a final question either to the Secretary of State for External Affairs or to the Prime Minister, also related to the aide-memoire,he which seems to leave an escape-hatch to the government of Canada on the question of environmental damage on the west coast which might arise from a tanker route. Is the Prime Minister, or the Secretary of State for External Affairs, now prepared to tell us that under no circumstances will the government consider, support or recommend a proposal that involves tanker traffic on the west coast of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member, I am sure, will be interested in knowing that this topic will be one of the major issues that will be discussed with the President of the United States by the Prime Minister of Canada when the President visits here on November 9 and 10.
There is no question of the position that will be put forward by the Canadian government, which will be that we do not want increased tanker traffic on the west coast because it would endanger the very precious environment along that coast. That is the position which will be put forward very strongly.


Mr. Speaker, I am wondering if that position can be interpreted to mean that the government will not support the Trans Mountain route.


Mr. Speaker, I would think that the Leader of the Opposition-


Yes or no?


-would want to know that the Government of Canada will accept a position that will make sure that there is no-


Yes or no?


Members opposite would like a yes or no answer to a position like that. It may be-


Oh! Oh!


-that the opposition will be putting forward, as its position, the northern tier route, but that is not the one that this government will put forward. 1 would like the Leader of the Opposition to know that our position, following the outcome of the NEB hearings, will depend on whether or not there is an application continuing from Foothills. That would be the one to which we would give our foremost support.


Mr. Speaker, surely, since the meeting will be in a couple of weeks, the government will have to tell President Carter whether or not they support a route which involves tankers.
The government has said that all summer they have not ceased supporting the route for which we indicated a preference, but now the hon. lady cannot seem to answer whether or not she will support another route which does involve tanker.


Mr. Speaker, I realize that the Leader of the Opposition has been out of office for a few months and therefore does not quite remember the way in which these regulatory processes work. However, in the case of the Foothills application or the Trans Mountain application, the hon. member should remember that they must go before the National Energy Board. When we see the outcome of that particular decision, we will then be in a position to decide the question which he poses.


So it has not been decided?


It is a possibility?


The "maybe" minister.


I would say to the Leader of the Opposition that the preference which this government has stated throughout is for the Foothills pipeline, and I would hope that that is still a matter which will be before the government for
October 23, 1979

endorsation. I should also say to the Leader of the Opposition-


Order.


Yes or no?


-that if he had given as much support earlier on as his government should have to this matter, then it might have been quite a different proposition.


Ten o'clock.


You will be asleep at ten o'clock.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Prime Minister. Given that the first nine months' profit figures of the oil industry, which were released today, show that Shell, Imperial Oil and Texaco had an average increase in profits of 52 per cent, precisely at a time when another government report indicated that real incomes of most Canadians were going down, can the Prime Minister indicate to the House what precise steps the government intends to take to stop these profit rip-offs; or does he still believe that even further tax handouts are required for the oil industry?


Mr. Speaker, our view is that the Government of Canada should take every measure it can to ensure as much as possible the investment of the returns of oil companies operating in Canada in energy development in this country. That will be reflected in steps we will be taking as a government.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. It is very clear that the oil companies will continue to get the hand outs and the poor will get the crumbs from this government.
Considering that by the end of the year the five major companies in this industry will have accumulated $5 billion in profits in the last five years-precisely during the time they were under investigation by an agency of this government for price collusion and manipulation-can the Prime Minister assure the House that before the government takes any action that gives one further penny to these oil companies, it will make the formal investigation report public to the people of Canada and to this House?


Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the New Democratic Party knows that there are certain legal processes that must be gone through in relation to the potential charge to which he made reference. I am sure he did not intend the implication that we should hold back any measures that might encourage
Oral Questions
further energy exploration until those legal procedures, which might take some time, are finished. I say "might take some time" because I do not know exactly how long they would take.
I can certainly affirm to this House and to the Leader of the New Democratic Party that it is a matter of very real concern to this government to see that as much as possible of the revenues that come to energy companies operating in this country are reinvested in Canadian energy development. Indeed, we want to see measures taken that will encourage a wide number of Canadians who are not now investing in the energy industry in a position where they can put their investments into that industry in a way that can move this country toward self-sufficiency.


Mr. Speaker, a final supplementary question-and the Prime Minister knows that he did not answer the question at all. Considering that, presumably, his government and the preceding government would not have maintained a five-year investigation into these companies unless they believed there were very good grounds for suspecting collusion on prices, it is not a frivolous matter. They made $5 billion in profits, when their taxes have been going down and those of Canadians of ordinary income have been going up.
Given the circumstance of multibillion dollar profits in this industry by a handful of firms, would the Prime Minister not agree that it is precisely at such a time Canadians need a publicly-owned and controlled petroleum company like Petro-Canada, over which they have control, to ensure some fair practices in the marketplace?


Mr. Speaker, we will resist the temptation of the Leader of the New Democratic Party to rush to a conclusion on this question before the evidence gathered by the Government of Canada suggests that we should lay a charge. What he is suggesting is that because he thinks it might serve his interest in defending a particular concept of state ownership of an energy company, instead of citizen ownership of an energy company, we should move ahead quickly, pressing charges before it would be appropriate according to the law officers of the Crown to move forward with those charges.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. In light of the report which has just been made public by Statistics Canada and which now provides facts on distribution of income in Canada and loss of purchasing power, especially for older persons living alone, is the minister, after having introduced yesterday that bill which helps only 60,000-odd senior citizens, ready to tackle the real problem, that is,

October 23, 1979
Ora! Questions
create a special allowance for single individuals receiving a guaranteed income supplement-600,000 Canadians-to make them rise above poverty level?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, indeed, the report yesterday concerned all of us. I should like to suggest to the hon. member that the review, of which I am sure she is aware, we are undertaking with respect to the pension review-as well as the general review the department has been undertaking which was started by her-is still under way. We hope it will bear some fruit that 1 can bring before the House.
* V *
[DOT] (M30)


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. 1 am so familiar with the review that when I left we already knew the cost of the special allowance needed for senior citizens living alone and receiving GIS, and it is only $200 million.
Is the Minister of Finance not ready to earmark $200 million from, say, the super-depletion allowance to oil companies in order to offset the effects of inflation for seniors by creating that special allowance for all those receiving the GIS?


Mr. Speaker, it is too bad the hon. lady did not make the suggestion to her own minister of finance a few months ago.


Oh, oh!


Joker.


You are in office.


I am open to any suggestion from the mothea-ten ranks opposite, and 1 will consider this one too.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. To help meet the requirements of small wage earners who are getting poorer, could the minister tell the House

whether he has considered favourably the request of the Quebec Minister of State for Social Development who was asking the federal government to make a financial contribution to the income supplement plan in effect in Quebec for small wage earners. If so, what amount was granted by the department and what are the arrangements?


Mr. Speaker, I assume the hon. member is talking about the Quebec income supplementation plan. If he is, there were two requests from the province of Quebec with respect to that plan. First of all, would the federal government accede to their need to have the income so directed, tax exempt? That request was acceded to by the federal government.
The second request was in relation to whether or not we could participate in the funding. We advised the province of Quebec that we would do so only in relation to its ability to come under the terms of the Canada Assistance Plan. Discussions are being carried out in that sense as of this moment.
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a supplementary question. Could the minister tell the House why his department is unable to reach an agreement as beneficial for Quebec as that concluded with Saskatchewan under existing programs?


Mr. Speaker, actually there are two or three programs other than the one for the province of Quebec which were talked about in terms of income supplementation. The specific problem with the province of Quebec is trying to find a way in which we could, indeed, participate legally under the Canada Assistance Plan.
In relation to whether or not the federal government ought to participate above and beyond the Canada Assistance Plan, that is a discussion we are having in November with respect to the other interested provinces as well as the province of Quebec.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Since women's employment is supposed to be a priority of the new government, is the minister now ready to cost-share under CAP the new Ontario work incentive program for single mothers and other welfare recipients, so as to get them out of poverty?
October 23, 1979


Mr. Speaker, my answer is the same as the one given to the hon. member on the other side.


A no-answer.


It is a good answer, because it is a very important program to both the province of Ontario and the province of Quebec. It is, indeed, one that will serve the population of those two provinces. We have been caught by the way in which the Canada Assistance Plan was drafted in that we are not able to participate except only in cases of need. Consequently, we have to redefine the matter, and that is to be the purpose of having the discussion in November with appropriate ministers from the provinces.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Statistics Canada has reported that the average income for Canadians has dropped by 3 per cent because of inflation and that the number of poor people or those in need in Canada is rising dramatically. Yet this government will be introducing a mortgage tax credit plan which will do nothing to assist Canadians in real need, such as tenants, and which will cost the country billions of dollars over the next three or four years.
Considering the apparent lack of concrete plans by the government to defeat inflation-which has been increasing since these statistics came out-will the Prime Minister tell the House if he will recommend modifying his expensive election promise in order to assist Canadians in need? In addition, will the Prime Minister tell us where he will find the funds to provide social assistance, if he is not going to help needy Canadians in his housing give-away of billions of dollars?


Mr. Speaker, we are not proposing to amend that bill, which will be introduced into the House of Commons later this week.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. It relates to the trucking affair. I might indicate that as the issue progresses, it becomes one for the protection of the director of investigations under the Combines Investigation Act.
In the Senate, on Thursday of last week, a statement was made by the Minister of Justice that, indeed, the meeting that
Oral Questions
took place was not at his initiative, but was at the initiative of his own officials, and he did not know even the nature of the problem prior to the meeting being called that he had to be told to attend.
I ask the minister whether he knows the director of investigations, for whom he is responsible in this House, and I trust he takes his responsibility very seriously and will seek to protect the interests of the director-


Order.


-was instrumental in calling that meeting, or whether he was a reluctant participant, and whether he agreed with the subject matter of the discussions that took place?


Mr. Speaker, in my view- although I had no hand in calling that meeting-the purpose and the motivation for calling the meeting was absolutely essential.
The hon. ex-minister appreciates that I am under some inhibition as to just what 1 can publicly indicate respecting the purpose of the investigation, ll is a piece of legislation that was not presented to the House by this government, but under that piece of legislation I cannot explain fully the purpose of the investigation and its status at the moment.
Nevertheless, because there has been so much misunderstanding about this particular matter, and because many items have been raised in this House which should not have been raised in the House-


Oh, oh!


-I feel that I am free at least to tell the hon. member that a meeting of that type was absolutely essential. That particular meeting had to have, as part of it, the Minister of Transport so that that particular minister could be informed of the purpose of the expected prosecution and, indeed, so we could obtain information from that particular minister about certain provincial government regulations and interference in the whole question of rate-setting and route-setting for transport companies in western Canada. For goodness sake-


Order.


Order, please. The hon. member for Nipissing, on a supplementary question.


Mr. Speaker, 1 am so pleased with the hon. gentleman's very lengthy explanation, but I am asking him whether, in effect, the information he sought from the Minister of Transport relating to very technical procedures within the province of Alberta could not have been obtained from the Minister of Transport-


You mean, Minister of Justice.


-and while he is replying to that question, would he also indicate whether he has ensured that his responsibility

October 23, 1979
Oral Questions
under the statute to protect the independence of the director of investigations has been discharged? Also, could he assure this House, now, that at all times the director of investigations was completely independent in the pursuit of his responsibilities under the statute?


Mr. Speaker, first of all, the director of investigations certainly knew about that meeting ahead of time. He was at the meeting, obviously. He knew about it, and at no time was there any hint to me-or, as far as 1 know, to anybody else by the director of investigations-that that meeting should not have taken place. The director of investigations was there. He took part in that meeting fully, as I expected he would.
The hon. ex-minister has just misinterpreted, again, something I have just said. 1 did not say that the meeting was called for my information. The meeting was called for the information of the Attorney General of Canada, who has a perfect right, in his discretion, before he authorizes any type of a prosecution like that to get the fullest information that is possible.
As it turned out, the information that was desired was not presented to the Attorney General because it was not within the knowledge of any federal government official. Therefore, we shall have to carry this consultation process even further and consult with provincial governments before the prosecution is permitted.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport: it relates to the very dangerous and chaotic situation that exists in many of the nation's airports due to the withdrawal of service by the flight service radio operators.
Those services were withdrawn because of a number of recent directives from the Ministry of Transport. In all probability, if those directives were withdrawn the workers would resume service. In light of that, is the minister prepared to give this House his assurance that he will remove those directives and allow the bargaining process with Treasury Board to continue without interference?


Mr. Speaker, as I am sure the hon. member knows, the Public Service Staff Relations Board ruled last Saturday that the designated duties as prescribed by Transport Canada were, indeed, upheld by the Public Service Staff Relations Board. I am informed that where the prescribed duties are being carried out by the designated employees as per schedule, there are no difficulties. I have been informed, as well, that there has
(Mr. Blais.]
been no recorded case where flight safety has been knowingly compromised.
Management did issue a directive indicating the responsibilities of the designated employees and indicating that there are prescribed duties which they are required to perform. It reminded them of the importance of discharging that responsibility: failing that, they could face possible disciplinary action.


Mr. Speaker, the situation is not quite as I hear it from the Minister of Transport. What is actually occurring, and I would take one of a great many examples I received today, was a case where-


Order, please. If the hon. member has a supplementary, he should put it.


In light of the fact that we have a number of incidents, can the minister tell us what he will do to ensure that flight safety is taking place at airports where the service has been withdrawn?


Mr. Speaker, officials of Transport Canada are, indeed, monitoring the matter at all times. We are committed to ensuring that safety and security are preserved and not compromised. If the hon. member has any specific examples, 1 wish he would give them to me.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Public Works. I would like to find out from him, regarding the lease on the building at 219 Laurier which still has several months to run until the end of this year-if, in fact, a new lease has been negotiated-


Order.


-at over a 100 per cent increase.


Order.


Mr. Speaker, I have that matter currently under inquiry.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. It has been alleged that the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency collected at least $3 million last year in unnecessary surplus. What is the minister doing to ensure that this $3 million of excess, unjustified collections from the public are returned to the consumers and the farmers?
October 23, 1979


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the hon. member's question. It does not come as any surprise to me, knowing the hon. member's feelings regarding marketing systems in this country. I remind him that to protect the public interest as it relates to all national marketing systems, particularly the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency, we have in place a supervisory body, the National Farm Products Marketing Council. I am certain that because of the very capable chairman we have in that position, the public interest is being safeguarded.


Mr. Speaker, my feelings toward marketing systems in this country are very positive, provided they operate in a way that is balanced in the interests of both consumers and producers. The minister has to demonstrate that is the case.
Inasmuch as CEMA has announced it is raising the price of eggs in order to pass on to consumers the additional interest costs to egg producers because of higher interest rates supported by his government, can he report to us, now, how much there will be in increases in the over-all cost of food generally that will result from these high interest rates paid by primary producers? What will he and his government be doing to alleviate this additional burden on consumers, especially low income consumers?


In response to the hon. member's supplementary question, I want to remind him that the annual report of the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency has been tabled. It was tabled in the House on October 9, I believe. We want to make certain that we are not only tabling these reports but are making them available to the Standing Committee on Agriculture.
If the hon. member feels that concerned about the situation, I invite him to make an appearance before the Standing Committee on Agriculture when the annual report of CEMA is before the committee.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture. In view of reports that the Canadian Egg Marketing Agency is controlling the domestic supply so tightly that there are now shortages in the supply of eggs for processing in baked goods, does the minister have a plan to ensure that this shortage will not drive up the price of food items for the holiday season?


Mr. Speaker, hon. members opposite might take some comfort in the fact that as late as this morning I met with a representation from the board, the chairman of the National Farm Products Marketing Council and the general manager of the board. We discussed these matters. It would appear that we do not have a shortage. I think it could be accurate to describe the situation as being a rather tight one in that the demand for eggs has increased greater than that forecast. However, after my dis-
Oral Questions
cussions of this morning I feel quite satisfied that we can overcome this situation without any serious problems.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Defence. It has become clear during the last several months that there is no effective competition between the two contending fighters for our new fighter aircraft and that the potential industrial benefits package does virtually nothing for Canada's high technology industry. .
In view of this, will the minister indicate whether it is his intention to proceed with acquisition of the F-16 or F-18A, or is he prepared to add the F-18L to the short list?


Mr. Speaker, it is not our intention to add the F-18L to the short list at this time. As far as the industrial benefits are concerned, we are rather pleased with the package that has been offered by those two companies. There is very active competition right down to the final offers that were made and are at present being reviewed in my department.


In an article that appeared in this morning's Washington Post, Representative Jack Edwards of Alabama, the senior Republican on the house appropriations defence subcommittee, stated that by the end of this year there will be a great deal of F-15s or F-16s delivered with holes where the engines should be, that because of persistent problems only half of these aircraft are flying at the time, and that if he were a member of a NATO nation considering the acquisition of this aircraft, he would be very nervous. In view of that, does the minister consider this a sensible aircraft to acquire for the Canadian forces?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his first question as defence critic of the official opposition. 1 point out to him that these two aircraft were put on the short list by his government. I believe he is aware of that.
I want to tell him that I have not read the article in question. I will be pleased to read it. I will ask for advice on such allegations. I know there is a lot of speculation as to which aircraft will be selected. I would not want to say anything in this House that would show any favouritism toward either one.

October 23, 1979
Oral Questions
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Employment and Immigration.
In view of the fact that the majority of Charlevoix workers must resign themselves to seasonal work, which seldom lasts longer than ten weeks, thereby depriving them of unemployment insurance benefits, could the minister urge the task force, set up in his department to review economic boundaries, to report as soon as possible and demand that new boundaries be proposed for the Charlevoix region so these people will be eligible for unemployment insurance benefits?


Mr. Speaker, 1 believe the task force in question is due to report to me some time at the end of November. I would be pleased to make the report of that task force available as soon as it is given to me.


Mr. Speaker, on a supplementary, I should like to remind the minister that under the previous government that task force was to report and make its recommendations at the end of May. Could the minister speed up the process because, the tourist season being over, hundreds of persons are denied unemployment insurance in the riding of Charlevoix?


Mr. Speaker, 1 am hardly about to provide an excuse for the delay of the previous government. I would be very pleased to provide the report of this task force as soon as it is available.
1 can assure the hon. member that individuals in my department are working very hard on this very difficult question.
I take this opportunity to offer the hon. member a chance to provide input into that particular process, because this is an extremely complex question of importance not only to his riding but also to many other ridings throughout eastern Canada.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the right hon. Prime Minister. In view of the

distressing figures mentioned already by other hon. members which show the rich getting richer, the poor getting poorer and middle income earners falling behind, can the Prime Minister indicate to this House whether he intends to keep his promise of June 4 that his government will provide a $2.2 billion tax cut for middle and low income Canadians to provide stimulus for the economy and to help these important groups cope with inflation's effect on their standard of living?


Mr. Speaker, we hope to keep that promise, but we are not sure when.


Oh, oh!


You sound like a Liberal, Joe.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Communications. It deals with the meeting of the communications ministers held in Toronto recently. Little news has filtered through about it, only enough to conclude that it was not an outstanding success.
1 should like to know how it is that, as a member of a government that claims to be so well disposed towards the provinces, he managed to stifle the enthusiasm that existed in negotiations and co-operation to such an extent that a member of the group accompanying the Ontario communications minister is reported to have said: "We were better off with Jeanne Sauve. At least we had a deal with her".


Mr. Speaker, 1 want to report to the former minister of communications that I think we had a very useful two-day session last week on a number of communications matters, which she would understand well. In many instances we made a considerable amount of progress.
I know the hon. member would welcome that, particularly in areas which have been most difficult in the past, having to do with the development of new technologies in satellite utilization, some further practical approaches with respect to cable regulation, industrial research in telecommunications and some of the competition industry questions which concerned her in office and very much concern this government as well.
October 23, 1979


Mr. Speaker, I think that, with regard to the industrial aspects of the department, there is little controversy between the federal and the provincial governments. But the minister did not attend the press conference right after the meeting of the ministers. He delegated the deputy minister. Of course, 1 have nothing against the latter; he manages very well in everything he does but, in my time, the minister himself gave press conferences. For the benefit of the House, 1 should like the minister to tell us, a bit more specifically, what he offered the provinces, for instance with regard to the delegation of authority in the case of cablevision, pay television, the interconnection between systems and especially legislation which I would rather have seen discussed in the House instead of with communications ministers in another city.


Mr. Speaker, as you know, under the rules I would not be allowed to give a detailed answer to the hon. member's question. I do want to indicate to her that 1 think we have achieved a number of practical solutions in the areas to which she has referred. Specifically, just to mention two, in terms of developments with respect to pay television and satellite utilization we have a proposal before the provinces now which we would like to implement, and they are very seriously examining it.
In terms of cable jurisdiction, we have decided to take a practical route by working together through the means of a task force for an acceptable interim solution before some constitutional or other agreement is arrived at.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Labour.
Today the minister released the Adams report on paid education leave and productivity. Could he say, first, whether he intends to implement the main recommendations and, second, which he intends to implement first?


Mr. Speaker, 1 want to thank the hon. member for that very important question. As he knows, the report was just a release and it is our intention to hear from the interested parties, whether they be labour, management, provincial ministers or academics. There has been no position taken. We are looking for input, and after that it will be up to the government to decide in which direction it should go.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, could the minister tell the House whether he intends to integrate the recommendations of the report and the input of the consultations by the Adams commission in Bill C-8 that was introduced last week by the government? Further, could he tell the House if there is contradiction between these recommendations and the millions of dollars provided for the education of workers throughout the country?


Mr. Speaker, if that is a representation and a matter of concern, 1 will certainly give it immediate consideration and get back to the hon. member, particularly when he indicates that there is a contradiction. The extent of this contradiction is now known by me, but it is a point which I will have to consider.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the news report of a major human tragedy taking place in Cambodia, 1 wonder if the minister can report on the accuracy of the report. Second, would the minister indicate to the House what initiative Canada is seeking to take diplomatically and in the provision of food aid?


Mr. Speaker, as hon. members will know, the Canadian government announced over the weekend a contribution of some $5 million to the International Relief Fund to be distributed to those who are suffering from malnutrition- indeed, from starvation-in Kampuchea. The amount which will be distributed will be distributed through the aegis of the International Red Cross and UNICEF, the two groups which have been able to make a preliminary study of this major tragedy which is taking place in Kampuchea.
1 should report to the House that the initial report by the Red Cross indicates that the disaster and the malnutrition which have affected that country have almost entirely wiped out the total population under the age of five, and that the age group between five and ten is now seriously threatened. We are, therefore, working with the United Nations, the International Red Cross and UNICEF to try to ensure that this contribution, which is in the form of medical supplies and food aid, will be received by those people who most need it.

October 23, 1979
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of State for Science and Technology. Before the election, his party advocated the expenditure of 2.5 per cent of the gross national product on scientific research and development. This would have required an increase in the number of scientists by 1983 of 40,000.
In view of the restraint programs initiated by his government and most of the provincial governments, which have led to cutbacks in university research programs rather than increases, I would like to ask the minister what steps he intends to propose to reverse this very dangerous trend.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate the hon. member on his nomination as official critic for his party. [Translation]
May 1 take this opportunity to extend to him my best wishes.

The 2.5 per cent ratio between research and development expenditures and the gross national product remains a goal and a challenge to this government. Before the government at this point are propositions for tax incentives to industry, as well as the five-year council grants for universities. I am sure that when we arrive at a decision in this regard, very shortly, the hon. member will recognize that we are keeping the 2.5 per cent ratio figure as a goal for this government and he will be completely satisfied.


Under the much more modest proposal of the former government for reaching 1.5 per cent of the gross national product for R and D by 1983, we ought to have required from industry an increase in their annual expenditures of about 27 per cent. Given that the increase in industry this year is less than a third of that projected by the former government, which was in itself inadequate, what steps does the government propose to take to persuade industry, so much of which is foreign controlled and dominated, to play the role in this country which it plays in virtually all the other industrialized countries in the world?


1 can assure the hon. member that I have already met with officials of NRC and of the industry branch of my department. I have consulted and am consulting the President of the Treasury Board and the Minister of State for Economic Development and 1 have put all plans of our ministry before the cabinet committee.
1 am sure that a decision in this regard and in all these areas will be reached in the very near future, and I repeat what 1 said in answer to the original question, that the hon. member

will be satisfied that the 2.5 per cent goal is a very serious goal for this government in terms of its economic plans.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Solicitor General, to whom 1 have given notice. It concerns the use of gas against an inmate named Renaud in his cell in the Laval institution on September 3.
Since the use of gas against a single inmate in a confined area is, to put it in the most neutral way, not normal, what investigations have the Solicitor General or his officials caused to be made into this incident?


There is no question in my mind that the use of gas under the circumstances referred to by the hon. member was quite contrary to departmental policy, and also quite contrary to one of the recommendations contained in the all-party committee recommendations which came before the House.
The incident occurred on September 3 of this year, I believe. On September 7, an internal investigation was carried out into the matter. As a result of that investigation, the conclusion was pretty direct: the inquiry had the opportunity of either firing the officer concerned or of severely reprimanding him. They took the latter course. I am convinced that that particular officer will not do the same thing again.


Order, please. Yesterday, the hon. member for Beauce (Mr. Roy) raised a point of order alleging that the House passed a motion which was out of order. He requested that that motion be declared null and void. The hon. member for Beauce quoted a few precedents to demonstrate that it was possible to declare some proceedings of the House null and void; it should be noted, however, that in such a case the presence of some irregularity should be clearly demonstrated. In this instance such a demonstration would require the determination by the Chair of a point of order concerning a motion which is not before the House at this time. The