Mr. Speaker, 1 rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
Whereas the government seems to plan an incredible increase of more than 30 per cent in the price of oil, and whereas such a step would mean an increase of at least 30 cents to 45 cents per gallon of gas and 20 cents to 30 cents per gallon of heating oil, and whereas such an increase would mean an additional cost of at least $140 per year per car driver, and at least $160 per year per household, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Outremont (Mr. Lalonde):
That this House directs the government not to make any change to the present arrangements that provide for an increase of only three cents to four cents per gallon of gas between now and June 30, 1980.


Presentation of such a motion for debate would require the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the terms of Standing Order 43, I request the unanimous consent of the House.
Considering that in recent months thousands of civil servants with 15 to 25 years of seniority in the civil service were fired with no other explanation than the fact that their numbers had to be reduced, and considering that recent medical
reports have since raised the spectre of infarct, coronary thrombosis, alcoholism and depression apparently settling in at an alarming rate because these unjust and inhuman methods have been resorted to, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Pontiac-Gatineau-Labelle (Mr. Lefebvre):
That this House condem the use of such methods and that an order be given for an inquiry to be instituted in the matter of firings in the civil service which, to all practical purposes, are now discriminatory and contrary to the most elementary justice.


The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under Standing Order 43, such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
Because a 1,280 megawatt boiling water nuclear power installation is proposed for Sedro Woolley, Washington, a site contiguous to the Canada-U.S. border, and should construction proceed any future accident would threaten the lives of almost one million people in B.C.'s lower mainland, I move, seconded by the hon. member for New Westminster-Coquit-lam (Miss Jewett):
That (1) Canada issue to the United States an aide memoire calling for a moratorium on the Sedro Woolley plant with a view to its relocation away from Canadian population centres;
(2) that during President Carter's visit here our Prime Minister discuss the concern of many Canadians over nuclear installations and the lethal effects of radiation leakage, and depending on the outcome of discussions between the two leaders, Canada consider initiating a reference to the International Joint Commission for study and recommendations.


Such a motion can be introduced for debate at this time, pursuant to Standing Order 43, only with unanimous consent? Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

October 17, 1979
5.0.	43


5.0.	43
Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a motion of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that there is increasing uncertainty over the American government's intentions in relation to the Garrison irrigation project in North Dakota, in view of the fact that any form of biological linkage between the Garrison water systems and Manitoba would result in substantial environmental damage and seriously harm the fishing industry in Manitoba, and in view of the impending visit of President Carter to Canada on November 9, I move, seconded by the hon. member for St. Boniface (Mr. Bockstael):
That the matter of the Garrison irrigation project be placed on the agenda for discussion as a priority issue and that the Canadian government convey to the President that there should be no form of linkage between the Garrison and Manitoba water systems.


The introduction of such a motion for debate would require unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. In view of galloping inflation which is resulting in an ever-increasing high cost of living, which is having an adverse effect on our senior citizens in Canada, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Welland (Mr. Parent):
That the Minister of Finance consult with his colleague, the Minister of National Revenue, who is also President of the Privy Council, Deputy Prime Minister and government House leader, as well as with the Minister of National Health and Welfare, with a view to bringing forward a measure whereby persons of 65 years of age and over with incomes of less than $15,000 per year would have no responsibility to pay federal income tax.


The introduction of such a motion for debate at this time requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I ask for unanimous consent of the House to move a motion of urgent and pressing necessity.
Considering the unusual procedure confirmed yesterday by the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs (Mr. Lawrence) and the Prime Minister (Mr. Clark) regarding the laying of charges under the combines act, where the Prime Minister approved a practice whereby the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs discussed the laying of charges with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport (Mr. Mazankowski), which was never the practice in the past, and considering that under section 15 of the combines act the director of investigation is to have complete independence, following an inquiry, to refer a case to the Attorney General for the purpose of laying charges, without any political influence or considerations, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Windsor West (Mr. Gray):
That the Prime Minister conduct an immediate investigation into this case to determine who was present at the said meeting, what was said, and whether everything was according to law and practice, and that until the Prime Minister reports to the House on this important matter, he suspend the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs from his functions.


The introduction of such a motion for debate at this time would require the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the recent ruling by the Human Rights Commission that regulations of the Unemployment Insurance Commission applicable to fishermen's wives are discriminatory, and in view of the fact that government members, when in opposition, urged that the discrimination against fishermen's wives be stopped, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Broad-view-Greenwood (Mr. Rae):
That this House instruct the Minister of Employment and Immigration to change immediately, by order in council, the discriminating regulations under which fishermen's wives have been denied unemployment insurance benefits.


The introduction of such a motion for debate at this time requires unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?
October 17, 1979


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, 1 would like to return to the question of the Foothills' pipeline project and its decision to withdraw its application from the National Energy Board.
Yesterday, at the end of the question period, the Prime Minister kindly informed us of the date of the aide memoire, which was September 28. He said he would get further information on what other demarches had been made previous to that date. Could he answer the question now and, in particular, could he tell us whether any significant action was taken either by himself or by his ministers to push that Foothills' project, which not only means fewer tankers up the west coast but more jobs for Ipsco in Saskatchewan and steelworkers in Hamilton. Did he, personally, raise this matter with the President, perhaps in Tokyo, or speaking on the phone on some other occasion?


Mr. Speaker, I did not, personally, raise this matter with the President in Tokyo. That was not one of the matters on which the former prime minister briefed me, suggesting I should raise the question-


Oh, oh!


-but ministers of this government have been in touch with Foothills and in touch with United States officials throughout the summer to make clear the preference of the Canadian government for the Foothills route and to make very clear our concern about the environmental impact of tanker traffic off the west coast.
We knew there was a deadline of October 2 for submission of an aide memoire to the United States. We submitted that aide memoire before that deadline so that there would be no question about the position taken by the Government of Canada which had been made very clear in an informal way on several occasions during the summer.


The Prime Minister is, perhaps jokingly, suggesting that I should have briefed him before the Tokyo meeting on such bilaterals. If he needs that kind of help, 1 am at his disposal.


Oh, oh!
Oral Questions


The President of the United States will be coming here in early November, and I would be happy to tell the Prime Minister which important matters of interest to Canada he should raise.
I come back to his suggestion that during the summer there were some contacts with ministers-I am not interested in officials. The reason I did not brief the Prime Minister on that aspect was because we had, last March-last April-informed the United States government that Foothills was our preference. This information was given to the United States government within weeks after the U.S. had asked us for our preference. I am interested in knowing whether this government, through its ministers, informed the United States. The Prime Minister did not do so. Did the Secretary of State tell Mr. Vance? Did the Minister of Energy inform Mr. Andrus and, if so, at what date?


There were several meetings with Foothills involving ministers-


That's not the question.


I understand that. I understand what the former prime minister is asking. The situation is this: the position of the Government of Canada was made clear by the former government in March of this year-


April.


In April, was it? I gave him more credit. Whatever the date, the former government made Canada's position clear. That position did not change. In informal meetings involving the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, the Secretary of State for External Affairs and the Minister of the Environment, with Foothills-in a formal meeting, involving officials, between the Government of Canada and the government of the United States on October 6 again it was reaffirmed that the position taken by the Government of Canada in support of Foothills in March or April of this year was the position the Government of Canada continued to hold. This was reaffirmed officially again in an aide memoire delivered on September 28 of this year to meet a deadline of October 2 set by the United States.


I understand there were meetings with Foothills, and I am glad of that. I am asking whether there were meetings with the United States. Perhaps the Prime Minister made a mistake, but he mentioned that there were meetings of officials on October 6. Surely, if the aide memoire was delivered on September 28, the least that might happen would have been that some ministers might have talked with their opposite numbers in the United States since the government was supporting our position of last March and April.
The Prime Minister keeps referring to the fact that there has been a change of government. They know this in the United States, too. The question is: was this government pursuing this very important policy affecting Canadian jobs and Canadian environmentalists?

October 17, 1979
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I did misstate the date. The meeting of officials was on September 6, not on October 6, and that was part of a regular consultation process of which the former prime minister is well aware.
The position of the Government of Canada was clear from the time the communication was sent by the former government. There was never any question in the minds of the ministers of the government of the United States as to the official position of the Government of Canada. This was reaffirmed officially by the Government of Canada in an aide memoire dated September 28.


Mr. Speaker, having listened to the Prime Minister, 1 am astounded that he would let an opportunity like this go by without a fight by the Canadian government.


Hear, hear!


The Prime Minister has referred to meeting over the summer with Foothills. He has referred to meetings over the summer and in September with the Americans. Who initiated these meetings? With whom, and when, did these meetings take place? That is what we would like to know. When did these meetings take place? Did the Prime Minister and his ministers talk about jobs lost to Canadians, contracts lost to our industries, and the environmental threats off coast?


Order.


Did the Prime Minister talk about that, if the Foothills contract was lost to Canadians? That is what we would like to know.


Mr. Speaker, 1 assume that the purpose of this questioning is to try to indicate that there was some doubt in the minds of United States' officials as to the position of the Government of Canada relative to a preference for the Foothills route. There was no doubt at all. There was a meeting of officials on September 6 as part of a regular series of meetings. There were a number of meetings between ministers of this government and officials of Foothills through the summer affirming that the position of support for Foothills enunciated by the former government was the position which was maintained by this government.
I can inquire as to whether the Secretary of State for External Affairs raised the matter in bilateral ways with the United States, but the point is that there never was any doubt about support for the Foothills route and about concern about tanker traffic down the west coast.


Mr. Speaker, that may be some minor consolation, but we on this side are not interested

in how the government wasted time all during the summer on a project of this importance.
The Prime Minister did not answer my question. What we want to know is what government ministers did all during the course of the summer, to ensure that Canada got this contract and had the approval of Foothills, which would ensure jobs for Canadians. In that connection, 1 wonder if the Prime Minister has received a telegram from local 1005 of the United Steel Workers, the largest local of steel workers in Canada, berating this government for its incompetence in not pursuing this adequately to protect the jobs of Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I will come directly to the question. I will inquire as to whether a telegram was received and 1 will advise the former minister of my response to that telegram.


And the answers to the other questions.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. Given the most recent reports of a planned energy price increase of $4 a barrel for next year and also the raising of the excise tax on gasoline to 37 cents a gallon, I wonder if the minister can inform the House by tabling what projections he and his department have made of the negative effects of this price increase in terms of unemployment, inflation and the gross national product? Predictions over the short term for the economy in the winter are very negative. Would the minister not agree that this increase would push us into a very severe recession?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman is asking me to comment on speculation in the newspapers. There has been no decision by the government that there is going to be any increase in anything at the moment, so I ask the hon. member not to get "excised" about the whole matter.


Mr. Speaker, surely the minister and his officials have done projections on various price scenarios and the effects these would have on the economy and Canadian consumers. Would the minister be prepared to table those scenarios in the House, and also to assure the House that we will have a full parliamentary debate on the question of price increases before they are implemented?


Mr. Speaker, 1 can assure the hon. gentleman that the Department of Finance is doing scenarios all the time and, in fact, never has the Department of Finance given the people of Canada as much information as they have been given
October 17, 1979

since June 5. That will continue in the budget and by other means before hon. members of the House. But until the budget is brought down, I will not be giving further information in that direction. In the budget there will be all kinds of information which will satisfy the hon. gentleman on studies done and on what the effects are. Everything will be put before the House.


1 have a supplementary question for the Prime Minister, a question supplementary to that of my leader's. I should like to ask the Prime Minister how we can assume that the U.S. government was aware of our policy when, during all the summer, his ministers and he himself have kept saying they were going to change the policy on Petro-Canada. Petro-Canada was involved in this project and the government was going to change the policy on pricing. How can the Prime Minister suggest that the representations by the former government were good enough, when the present government was changing the whole energy policy?


Hear, hear!


Right on.


Mr. Speaker, hon. members opposite are putting forth a very curious doctrine. They are suggesting that, after 16 years-too long-of government by that party, we should have spent the first five months of our mandate going around and indicating what comma we agreed with in the agreements they had brought forward, what policies we agreed with or disagreed with.
What we did during the election campaign and during the summer was to make very clear those areas where we intended to introduce reform, such as bringing the budget more toward balance, taking a new look at the operations of Petro-Canada, or bringing more control by Parliament over the operations of government agencies. In a number of those areas our policies disagree profoundly with those of our predecessors. There was no need to reaffirm, in direct meetings and in telephone conversations with representatives of the United States, our support of the Foothills' proposal, which was well known to the U.S.
1 do not understand why, apart from political reasons, members of the opposition are now trying to cast doubt upon the support of the government under two political parties for the Foothills route and the opposition of the government under two political parties to tanker traffic down the west coast.


Hear, hear!
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I should like to remind the Prime Minister that the comma he is talking about was worth a billion and a half bucks.


Hear, hear!


1 wonder if the Prime Minister could tell the House truthfully, and not shirk the question: did he, or did he not, explain to the U.S. government, or did his ministers explain, that the fact they wanted to dump Petro-Canada, dismantle it and change the whole energy policy did not change the policy of the government with regard to the overland route for oil from Alaska?


Hear, hear!


That question was never raised in the minds or in the mouths of the United States. There was no doubt on that question, no doubt of the support of the Government of Canada for the Foothills route.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister sent a plenipotentiary ambassador to the Middle East. Would it not also be useful to find a plenipotentiary to go to the United States, as he found a minister to go to Argentina?


I am not sure whether that is an application-


Oh, oh!


-indicating that the member for Ottawa-Carleton is not happy where he is, and I can understand that. 1 certainly do not intend to send ambassadors to make clear questions that were never in doubt.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Postmaster General and Minister of the Environment: it relates to the report on long-range transport of air pollutants issued on Monday by the Department of External Affairs.
The report concludes that five million metric tons of sulphur dioxide are produced in Canada every year. Contrary to news reports, can the minister assure the House that the signing of a treaty with the United States does not have to wait until 1981 after the installation of the new President and, if not, on whose
294

October 17, 1979
Oral Questions
judgment does the minister rely to come to the conclusion that Canada and the United States cannot sign an agreement before that date?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his question. It would be very well received by this government and by myself personally if such an agreement could be signed much earlier than I have indicated. But I have an obligation to the House and to the public not to raise unreal expectations, given the political situation in the United States.	.
I have said that we would do everything that we could to have the negotiations, the control strategies and the scientific strategy completed in sufficient time. Our own people are hoping to report on that by mid-1980 so that the text and the structure of an agreement can be ready as soon as possible to be put in the hands of the new administration immediately after the election.


Mr. Speaker, in that same report there is a conclusion to the effect that the greater portion of sulphur deposition in Canada is the result of domestic emissions. What action does the minister intend to take with the provinces which, like Ontario, are reported today as being unwilling to clamp down on companies that emit pollutants causing acid rain?


Mr. Speaker, the concern of the hon. member is understandable, especially given the fact that his party was the government for many years, that this acid rain problem was well known to them and that we heard nothing about it.


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!


In answer to the hon. member's question, I repeat-


He initiated the study.


Hon. members opposite are obviously concerned that their own inaction is part of the reason this new administration must put in place an agreement with the United States.
I know the hon. member is sincere in asking his question. His suggestion is that we should move unilaterally against pollution emissions in Canada. My specific answer to that is the same as before, that we have chosen the route to work with the provinces, and until there is some indication that that is not going to meet with the agreement we are hoping for, that is the route we will continue.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans. Since the same report states that all forms of life in aquatic ecosystems can be irrevocably affected, I ask the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans what step his department expects to take to protect fishery products for future generations and, in light of the same report which mentions a lower production of sea products, how the minister intends to react.

Hon. James A. McGrath (Minister of Fisheries and
Oceans): Mr. Speaker, I was getting so frustrated over here that I was about to ask myself a question.


Hear, hear!


Why are you in that party?


I am glad to see there is some interest left over there in the very important fishing industry in this country.
I welcome the hon. member's question and I share his concern. I want him to know that we are working very, very closely with the Department of the Environment on this question where jurisdiction is vested. I have every confidence in the ability of my colleague, the Minister of the Environment, to look after the interests of fisheries and all Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the President of the Treasury Board. It relates to the fact that there have been 97 air crashes in British Columbia in the last year, 54 deaths associated with those air crashes, 33 deaths in the last seven weeks, and three in my riding just the other day.
In view of the fact that the flight service centres, the only source of assistance to general aviation for 350 miles along the coast of British Columbia, are now shut in terms of general services because the Treasury Board will not meet with the representatives, I ask the President of the Treasury Board if he would give the House today his undertaking that he will have his department resume negotiations with the radio operators' union.


Mr. Speaker, the answer is yes.

October 17, 1979


Mr. Speaker, I will ask a supplementary question of the Minister of National Defence because the resources are so limited and the results tragic. In light of the fact that there are no dependable primary search and rescue resources for 350 miles along the coast of British Columbia-that is, from northern Vancouver Island to the Alaska border-could the minister tell the House what provisions he is willing to make to provide those resources, in view of the very dangerous situation which exists there?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, 1 believe the question is directed to me. In the short term it is very difficult. We are doing what we can in the way of replacement of smaller vessels. In the long term, we have signed an agreement with the United States and France to supply $13 million in the way of a search and rescue satellite which should be of almost inestimable value in the case of accidents and near tragedies on the west coast, particularly in that long stretch of water between Alaska and the north end of Vancouver Island.
 * *


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Does the minister know that several Canadian pulp and paper companies are refusing to sell to Canadian newspapers the newsprint they need?
Second, is the minister ready to refer that very serious matter to the director of investigation and research on combines and, finally, will the minister take concrete steps to help Le Journal de Montreal, a very important Quebec newspaper which must now restrict its circulation because the large pulp and paper companies refuse to sell.


Mr. Speaker, the whole question of the supply of newsprint is a matter which was brought to my attention very, very recently. I am giving the matter my consideration.
The allegation respecting the specific instance of the newspaper in Quebec is a matter which has not been drawn to my attention before, and I thank the hon. member for doing so.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, last Monday the minister candidly admitted in the House that he found many serious loopholes in the Combines Investigation Act. If he was serious when he made such comments, I would ask him now why there was no reference to that legislation in the throne speech and why there was no reference to amendments to the Competition Act in Canada in the lengthy list of some 90 bills tabled by the House leader last week.


Mr. Speaker, there are many matters to which the government is giving very urgent consideration that were not referred to in the Speech from the Throne.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. What does the minister intend to do through his department to provide Canadians with information about the effect of acid rain on the health of Canadians?
In particular, does the minister propose to address the matter of drinking water in rural areas where the quality of water is not controlled by the municipalities?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member is aware, the matter of acid rain has so far been considered primarily an environmental one. However, I would like to advise the hon. member and other members of the House that my department, particularly the environmental sciences section, has been in contact with the Department of the Environment in respect of this monitoring work that it is doing.
In addition, there is a very excellent study going on now, in New York, by the United States government in respect of which my ministry has indicated an interest in monitoring, and we are doing that as well. This is a concern as it moves from an environmental matter to a health matter, but we find ourselves in good shape in terms of the information and data that is available in North America.


Mr. Speaker, would the minister care to comment on the second part of my question which related to the matter of drinking water in rural areas where the quality is not controlled by the municipality?


Mr. Speaker, that is a matter I have not yet looked into and I am glad the hon. member has raised it. It is a

October 17, 1979
Oral Questions
matter that should be of concern to us and 1 will look into it and report to her.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Transport and is in regard to branch line abandonments in western Canada. What criteria is the hon. minister using to decide whether or not a branch line will be retained or abandoned?


Mr. Speaker, the criteria being used are those that were enunciated during the election campaign; that is, where elevator companies are prepared to provide adequate existing services or improve their services along branch lines, we will be prepared to ensure that transportation services are available.
This review is currently under way and 1 would hope to have a report within the next 30 days in order that these branch lines can be adjudicated on and determined in respect of whether they will be transferred to the basic network or become eligible for abandonment, consistent with our policy.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans who, on August 27, authorized a supplement of 10,000 metric tons to the cod quotas in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and at the same time authorized the entry of ships of 100 feet and over into the gulf, which was prohibited by the former government in 1975. Can the minister tell the House whether to date the 6,000 metric tons of catches authorized for ships over 100 feet long were met and whether he consulted with the provinces before making such a decision?


Mr. Speaker, that decision was taken after scientific advice had come to us that we could take an additional 13,000 metric tons in the Gulf. On the basis of that advice, consultations were held with the Atlantic Groundfish Advisory Committee. There was consultation, and on the basis of that consultation it was agreed that 4,000 metric tons would be assigned the Gulf-based vessels, which left an additional 9,000 metric tons. We decided that on the basis of that new TAC, we would assign 6,000 metric tons to the 100-footers, or the offshore fleet which had fished in the Gulf prior to 1976.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a supplementary, if the minister is saying that there was consultation with the committees, 1 should like to know whether there was consultation with the provincial governments, in particular with the province of Quebec and, if so, whether he is prepared to table in the House all the correspondence in favour or against the decision made by the minister on August 27?


Mr. Speaker, there was consultation with the five Atlantic provinces, including Quebec, which are represented on the Atlantic Groundfish Advisory Committee. They did meet in St. John's, Newfoundland, in mid-July. There was consultation at that time and there was consultation with the deputy ministers.
In line with the open policy of this government, we would be prepared to make all correspondence available provided, of course, that the provinces agree.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have a question for the Prime Minister. Yesterday, the Prime Minister approved a practice whereby the Solicitor General and Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs discussed the laying of charges under the Combines Investigation Act with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport-specifically in the recent case of the Western Transportation Association-which to my knowledge was never the practice in the past, especially when 1 was the minister, when the hon. member for Windsor West was minister, and when the hon. member for Papineau was minister.
Would the Prime Minister explain how he can justify such a practice when the director of investigation under section 15 of the Combines Investigation Act is to have complete independence in referring cases to an attorney general for the purpose of laying charges, without any political influence or consideration? In the circumstance, would the Prime Minister tell the House if the director or his alternate were present at this meeting, and what was his recommendation in this case?


Mr. Speaker, with reference to the latter part of the question, I will have to check to see if the director was present and to see if it is appropriate for us to make known his recommendation on a matter that is still ongoing. The former minister will understand the difficulty that might be involved in revealing the recommendation of an official on a matter that is still ongoing. I think the former minister would not want to suggest that consultation with

October 17, 1979
colleagues necessarily equates with political influence; at least it does not in this government, whatever was the former practice.


Mr. Speaker, all I can say to the Prime Minister is that that sort of consultation never took place when I was the minister, when the hon. member for Windsor West or when the hon. member for Papineau was the minister. In circumstances in which the director is supposed to have complete independence in referring cases for the laying of charges, this appears to me to be a very serious matter, and I would ask the Prime Minister whether he would suspend the Solicitor General and Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs from his functions while he fully investigates this case to determine whether the law and the practice were, in fact, followed in this case.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have no intention of suspending a minister. 1 certainly will look into the question as to whether all of the legalities were honoured, as I am reasonably sure they were.


And the practices?


Yes, and the practices that are appropriate; and I will report to the Elouse.


Mr. Speaker, 1 should like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister a supplementary question. It is evident from his reply in this House at yesterday's sitting that he did not understand either the circumstances that led to the question on Friday and yesterday, or he did not understand the very sensitive role of the Attorney General, to be seen not to be influenced by political considerations at the time he is considering prosecutions under the Combines Investigation Act.
While the right hon. gentleman is investigating the matter, which I suggest he ought to have done on Friday and again yesterday, will he determine when the information that has been collected by the director of prosecutions was, indeed, turned over to the Attorney General for his consideration under section 15 of the Combines Investigation Act?


Mr. Speaker, I would certainly be quite prepared to determine that information and, if it is appropriate, to publish that information and advise the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Employment and
Oral Questions
Immigration. In view of the fact that the Conservatives promised during the election campaign to rescind regulations that restrict unemployment insurance benefits for part-time and seasonal workers, most of whom are women, and in view of the fact that today at a meeting of the Advisory Council on the Status of Women the minister betrayed this promise of action in favour of the usual study, will he please tell the House why further study is needed, and when can the women of Canada who have worked on part-time or seasonal jobs collect their rightful unemployment insurance benefits?


Mr. Speaker, as I indicated to a colleague of the hon. member a week ago, the whole subject of unemployment insurance is under review by this government. That review is comprehensive. It will not be done quickly and decisions will not be taken precipitously.
I can assure the hon. member, as I assured the Advisory Council on the Status of Women this morning-and they were happy, I might add-that the subject of part-time workers and the 20-hour per week regulation imposed by the previous government is very much a part of the current review. I am, quite frankly, looking for alternative suggestions to that rule. 1 would make the offer to the hon. member, as well as to any member of this House, if they have any better suggestions I really would like to hear them, because this is a most difficult subject.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is also for the Minister of Employment and Immigration. In view of the fact that the minister has acknowledged that immigrant women experience a double disadvantage in the labour force, and because it takes longer than three years for immigrant women with young children to learn English and compete in the job market, what does the minister plan to do to extend funding for orientation, training and child care programs for immigrant women beyond the present three-year limit on residency?


Mr. Speaker, I am delighted that the hon. member was able to obtain a copy of my speaking notes from this morning. I only regret she was not in attendance.
I can tell her that, unlike the previous government, the immigrant aid settlement program will be extended where the first priorities of a settlement contract have been met-that is, for immigrants who have been in the country for less than 36 months. Where there are funds that are not spent, they are available for any immigrant settlement group to spend for immigrants in the community, including immigrant women, beyond that 36-month period. My officials have been instructed to draw the contracts accordingly.

October 17, 1979
Ora! Questions


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans. I wish him well in his important responsibilities.
1 know that his government has made a fetish of consultation with the provinces, even in areas where the provinces have little or no jurisdiction. Certainly this is the case in the allocation of quotas between types of fishing fleets.
May I ask the minister if he would inform his colleague from New Brunswick who immediately complained that he had not been consulted. I suspect that those who were consulted and agreed were from provinces where large fleets have dominated inshore fisheries policies for years. Has the minister considered that a lot of small fishermen belonging to fragmented organizations do not sit on the Atlantic Groundfish Advisory Committee, and in fact that he as minister should make sure that their interest is served, and not only the interest of the large fleet based outside the Gulf?

I want to say to the hon. gentleman that I take second place to no one, not even the hon. member, in looking after the interests of the inshore fishermen. I say to him that consultation does not necessarily mean agreement, but there was consultation. On the basis of that consultation, we took our responsibility and made a decision.
I am sorry the hon. member does not agree with the decision taken, but it was made on the basis of updated biological data. I had no choice but to allocate those additional quotas. I was advised, after consultation with the inshore fishermen, that they could only use an additional 4,000 metric tons. After consultation with the non-Gulf fleet, they wanted the remaining 9,000 and we agreed to allocate them 6,000 metric tons because they had been fishing anyway for the same stock off Sydney Bight. That now means they will be, of course, able to fish in the Gulf in November and December at a time when there will be no inshore fishing activity in any event.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. The reason, mainly, why I have to take an interest in the fisheries is my concern about some of the policies that are appearing on the horizon. This is very much one of them.
May I ask the minister if he will reconsider his decision, based on the fact that the large offshore fleet that he is allowing to return to the southern Gulf in fact has been largely served by the resources of the 200-mile limit? Will he check the amount of fish that they have taken, which they did not usually take off northern Newfoundland? Will he look at the amount of fish that they have taken in relation to the small fishermen? 1 am not speaking now of the 65-footers; I am speaking of the 40 and 45 and 50-foot boats which have yet to benefit from the 200-mile limit, including the southern Gulf.


Mr. Speaker, the decision stands for this year. In answer to my hon. friend, I can tell him that it would have been irresponsible on my part if I did not allocate those additional quotas to the offshore fleet in order to provide some additional supplies to the underutilized plant capacity in the maritime region. That would have been irresponsible, and I suspect the hon. member would have been the first one to flag it.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Veterans Affairs. In view of the very welcome announcement, both in the Speech from the Throne and in the list of bills proposed for this session which was given to the House on October 11, to the effect that
October 17, 1979

there will be amendments to all of the statutes affecting veterans, may I ask the minister if one of those amendments will be a provision that will make it possible for widows of disabled veterans to be given prorata pensions in cases where they are now denied any pension because the veteran's disability was below 48 per cent?
While he is answering that question, can he tell us what other measures affecting veterans we may look for in the next little while?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to thank the member from Winnipeg North Centre for his question. If ever the word "colleague" is used properly across the floor of the House, it must surely be between the Minister of Veterans Affairs and the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.


Hear, hear!


As is now well known, I have made proposals to my cabinet colleagues about the various acts covering pensions and other things concerned with veterans.
With respect to the 48 per cent rule, while I have not been able to move as far as the hon. member would like or as far as I would like, I have made a start in moving in the direction we would both like. 1 understand that the proper format for this kind of discussion is not to give away everything that is in a bill before it is presented for first reading.
I can only say that the bill will cure several ills that are there at present and will make a move in the direction that the hon. member would like on the 48 per cent pension.


Mr. Speaker, may I thank the minister for his assurance that we are going to move at least some distance with respect to amendments to the Pension Act. Will he also be bringing in amendments to revise and update the War Veterans Allowance Act in view of the thorough review of that legislation that has taken place during the past number of months?


Mr. Speaker, I will not be bringing in an act that will cover everything that was reviewed, but there will be a mention and there will be some amendments to the War Veterans Allowance Act.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have a question for the President of the Treasury Board.
Last Monday night, during his mini-stop in Hull in his pre-referendum pilgrimage, the premier of the province of
Oral Questions
Quebec invited the 18,000 federal public servants on the north side of the Ottawa River to join the public service of Quebec.
I would like to ask the minister whether he intends to ask certain "Judas Iscariot" federal public servants who have already started a propaganda campaign within the various departments to resign immediately and go to work in that illusionary paradise to which the separatist leader of Quebec has lured them in order to have their votes much more than their services.


Mr. Speaker, it would be very helpful to myself and to the House, I am sure, if the hon. member would name the Judas Iscariots that he is referring to.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the right hon. Prime Minister. Given the Prime Minister's lack of interest in the Quebec referendum question-ranging from helplessness to indifference-can this attitude on his part be interpreted by federal civil servants as being the position of the present government, which would allow them to act as they wish either for the "yes" or "no", without the least legal restriction?


Mr. Speaker, I suggest that we better serve the cause of national unity when we show Quebeckers and all other Canadians that Canada now has an administration which can co-operate successfully with the provinces. This is the way we intend to encourage Quebeckers to support the federalist cause in any vote.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Regional Economic Expansion. Last Friday, the minister stated that he could not see any reason why his department should turn down the $10 million loan application which the Quebec government has made to develop a salt mine operation in the Magdalen Islands. Could the minister indicate to the House whether he has any objection to that now and, if not, when he is likely to make an announcement about this grant?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his

October 17, 1979
Privilege-Mr. S. Robinson
question which is of great concern to his constituency and to the province of Quebec.
As long as this very substantial project, which has capital costs in excess of $60 million, would not have injurious affectations on the whole Canadian salt industry, I would be very favourably disposed to assisting in whatever appropriate way we could do so. On the other hand, there are environmental and business matters which are still under consideration. 1 would be very pleased to acquaint the hon. member with the progress of these assessments as they proceed.


Order, please. I have a notice of a question of privilege from the hon. member for Burnaby (Mr. Robinson).


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a serious question of privilege, of which I did give Your Honour notice earlier today.
My question arises from answers which were given to the House yesterday and last Friday by the Solicitor General of Canada and Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs (Mr. Lawrence), and, in addition, it arises from an alteration of substance in today's Hansard.
On Friday last, Mr. Speaker, 1 asked the minister a question-I note that the minister is returning to his seat- concerning a meeting of a number of cabinet ministers about a possible criminal prosecution under the Combines Investigation Act. The minister's answer to this House at that time was as follows:
I thank the hon. member for his good wishes, and I would inform him that the source of his information is completely and totally erroneous.
1 subsequently learned, and it became clear, that this was not in fact the case. In fact the minister confirmed that the meeting did take place involving the ministers in question and on the subject of the possible prosecution mentioned. While the minister yesterday stated that the Minister of Transport (Mr. Mazankowski), who was present at the meeting, made no representations with respect to the timings of the possible prosecutions, 1 am informed that the minister did indeed express his viewpoint at the meeting with respect to the prosecution in question.
Second, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs indicated to the House that the meeting which took place on Friday was, and I quote from his answer of yesterday:
-one of a series of meetings thal take place quite frequently in regard to various prosecutions recommended by the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs to the Minister of Justice.
I met yesterday with the director of investigation and research in the hon. minister's department who referred the inquiry to the Attorney General for possible criminal prosecution and who, Mr. Speaker, was present at the meeting on

Friday. This gentleman indicated that he did not recall during his five years' tenure as director a single similar meeting taking place discussing a possible prosecution involving himself and cabinet ministers.
I contacted his immediate predecessor. He indicated the same, that he had no recollection of a previous meeting taking place.
Today, Mr. Speaker, we had confirmation from the previous ministers involved that no such meetings had in fact taken place. This directly conflicts with the answers which were given by the minister to this House.
I should also add that I had arranged originally to speak with the gentleman in question, the director of investigation and research, and that 1 had confirmed a meeting with him for Monday of this week for one o'clock. That morning I was informed in this House by the minister that I was not to meet with the director of investigation and research-


Shame!


-until such time as the minister had had an opportunity to clarify the nature of meetings between members of Parliament and civil servants.


Oh, oh!


Finally, Mr. Speaker, I wish to make reference to a substantial alteration in the Hansard reference to this matter.
I received the blues-which of course are green-of the answers to the questions yesterday. I checked the blues and an answer was given-at least was reported by the minister- which did not accord with my recollection of what in fact had taken place. I ordered the tape recording of the question from yesterday, and there is a fundamental and substant