Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43.
Tomorrow, April 30, being an historic day in the life of the Dutch Royal Family and the Dutch people, and being mindful of the special regard Canadians have in their hearts for the Royal Family and recognizing the contribution of the Royal Family to the beautification of our national capital, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Esquimalt-Saanich (Mr. Munro):
That this House convey to Her Majesty Queen Juliana on the occasion of her abdication our sincerest good wishes for many more years of happiness, and to Princess Beatrix on the occasion of her accession to the throne our prayers that Divine Providence may guide her in her reign.


Hear, hear!


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the said motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. In view of the statement in the House of Commons by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance (Mr. MacEachen) on April
22, 1980, that he "tried to reach the financial critic of the New Democratic Party last week to tell him" about the non-budgetary statement made by the minister on April 21, I move, seconded by the hon. member for St. John's West (Mr. Crosbie):
That the Minister of Finance be provided with specific, detailed and non-evasive instructions as to the use of that great Canadian invention, the telephone, together with the telephone numbers, both office and home, of opposition finance critics, to carry with him at all times.


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, 1 rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the current strike by National Harbours Board policemen and the subsequent illegal walk-out by longshoremen in the port of Saint John, New Brunswick, and the severe economic repercussions that the city, province and Atlantic region will suffer as a result of this strike, I move, seconded by the hon. member for York-Sunbury (Mr. Howie):
That the House instruct the Minister of Transport to go immediately to Saint John to show his concern and intervene personally in an effort to end this dispute.


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

April 29, 1980


Madam Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
Since yesterday the Minister of Transport (Mr. Pepin) advised the House that there would be an air service direct from Ottawa to St. John's starting next week, and that he would like all members from Newfoundland to be properly served in terms of transportation from the capital, especially on the outward run as suggested by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance (Mr. MacEachen), and since a spokesman for the minister later yesterday advised the news media that the Minister of Transport "goofed" when he replied to the "Newfs", I move, seconded by the hon. member for St. John's East (Mr. McGrath):
That the minister see that Newfoundland be properly served in terms of transportation from Ottawa by directing Air Canada to commence a service direct to St. John's from Ottawa, or resign, since Canada cannot afford further "spoofs" or "goofs" from the minister who has now angered, alarmed and annoyed transportation users in Canada from Prince Rupert in British Columbia across every province to St. Shott's in the southeast corner of Newfoundland.


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Madam
Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
The Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and Postmaster General (Mr. Ouellet) informed this House that he was willing to increase the maximum allowable limit for rural postal delivery contracts without submitting them to tender. In response to my question yesterday he said "of course we would like to raise the limit as soon as possible". He went on to say that he "would be the first to go ahead with such a measure and have it approved immediately".
Accordingly, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Simcoe South (Mr. Stewart):
That this House direct the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs and Postmaster General to introduce the necessary legislation to Parliament as quickly as possible so that the excellent service of rural mail carriers is not deterred by the further delay of this measure's hasty passage.


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, 1 rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of pressing and urgent necessity.
In view of the fact that the Canadian government's relationship with public servants has deteriorated drastically in recent years, resulting in low morale, antagonistic negotiations, mass demonstrations and strike action, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Saskatoon East (Mr. Ogle):
That this House instruct the government to do the following as initial steps in attempting to improve the situation:
(1)	To immediately reopen direct negotiations with the clerical component of the PSAC and make a more realistic offer than the 5 per cent per annum offered to these low-salaried government employees;
(2)	to grant extensions of the priority status to those former government employees who were laid off in 1978 and 1979;
(3)	to table before this House a government plan to increase government and management efficiency prior to any further lay-offs or staff size reductions; and
(4)	when government lay-offs or staff reductions are planned, to provide an itemized report on the government services that will be affected before any action is taken.


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. In view of the government's failure to aid in relocation of the CPR yards in Winnipeg, and in view of the government's unwillingness to consider financial aid for the Winnipeg Convention Centre, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg-Assiniboinc (Mr. McKenzie):
That the government reconsider its decision of no aid for the Winnipeg Convention Centre and make moneys available to the Winnipeg Convention Centre on the same basis as that given to other cities which have built or are considering the building of convention centres.


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.
April 29, 1980


Madam Speaker, 1 rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the provisions of Standing Order 43.
In view of the fact that many small towns in rural ridings and, indeed, rural areas presently receive delivery of their mail on Saturdays, in view of the fact that this delivery date is an important one for those who have come to depend on it, and in view of the fact that the Post Office is presently considering cessation of this service, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Simcoe North (Mr. Lewis):
That the Postmaster General instruct his department to terminate consideration of the proposed ending of Saturday delivery, which is a direct slight to rural Canada.


Such a motion requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister, who tonight I understand is addressing the all chiefs and elders conference which is meeting in the city.
The Prime Minister will know, with regard to constitutional discussion, that the Conservative government agreed that representatives of the Indian people would participate fully and directly in all constitutional deliberations having an impact upon an identifiable interest in their affairs. Is it the intention of the government to honour that commitment?


Madam Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition will permit me to remind him that his government, 1 believe it was last December, followed up the policy which we adopted in February of last year when at the first ministers' conference on the constitution the federal government put on the agenda the issue of Indian participation and obtained the consent of the various premiers to have that item concluded the way we did.
The conclusion was that we undertook to have the ministers who were discussing the constitution meet with the Indians, and I am very happy that the then prime minister, now the
Oral Questions
Leader of the Opposition, followed up on this commitment. We certainly intend to go in that direction as well.


Madam Speaker, I am sure that hon. members appreciated the brief excursion into the history and background of the question. I wonder if the Prime Minister would now answer my specific question. Will the specific undertaking given by the government which I had the honour to lead be honoured in its specific terms by this government?


Madam Speaker, the purpose of stating the history was to indicate that we gave the undertaking and, necessarily, we will carry it out. In the meantime, I am happy that the Leader of the Opposition had an opportunity to subscribe to that undertaking.


Hear, hear!


Madam Speaker, if the Prime Minister is confused about the matter, I can advise him that the Indian people are not. They know there was a markedly different commitment given by the government which I had the honour to lead from that which was given by his government. It may well be that the Liberal government of the time was moving in that direction.
The Prime Minister could ease concern and clarify the question considerably if he would indicate to the House whether it is the intention of his government to honour in specific terms the commitment given by the government which I had the honour to lead.


Madam Speaker, if the Leader of the Opposition refers to the blues, he will see that I gave that commitment at the end of my first answer.


Madam Speaker, I direct my question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. Now that the revision of the Indian Act has gone through various stages, can the minister state what his target date is for completion of that revision; and is he intending to make any changes in the terms of reference?


Madam Speaker, as the hon. member's leader has just mentioned, the all chiefs and elders conference is being held during the course of this week. They will be deliberating on the Indian Act.
It is perhaps the first time in Canadian history that such a group has come logether to make their views known with respect to how they perceive and, indeed, how they would like the Canadian government to proceed on this matter.
Because of this conference, I am withholding answers to questions of this type which the hon. member has just asked
510

April 29, 1980
Oral Questions
until I have at least had a chance to hear what the Indian leaders of this country say about the matter. I will be in a better position to answer questions of the type which the hon. member has just put in a couple of weeks, after I have had an opportunity to assess the feelings of the conference.


A supplementary question, Madam Speaker. The minister and previous ministers have conducted a number of studies that were to assist in the revision of the Indian Act. All those studies are now in the hands of the minister.
Is it his intention to discuss those studies with the Indian people at this conference, or what impact will they have and what part will they play in the revision of the Indian Act?


As I say, Madam Speaker, if one looks at the agenda, they are going into this question thoroughly. They have asked me to watch their deliberations. After the Prime Minister speaks to them tonight, they have asked me to speak to them on Thursday and respond to some of their suggestions.
I hope to be in a position then to indicate in some concrete fashion the direction in which I think we can proceed with their backing, but I will do so only in the most general terms at that early stage.


Madam Speaker, my question is also for the Prime Minister: it is on the constitution as it pertains to the aboriginal people of this country.
I should like to ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to negotiate with Canada's aboriginal people the entrenchment of certain collective rights for them in any new Canadian constitution.


Madam Speaker, the question is too general for me to do it justice in this particular forum. If the hon. member would indicate what he means by collective rights, we might have a little discussion about them.


A supplementary question, Madam Speaker: Is the Prime Minister willing to negotiate with these people the entrenchment in our constitution of certain collective rights? Those rights could be defined in future negotiations between the Indian people of this country and the federal government and perhaps the provinces.
In principle, is the Prime Minister in agreement with the entrenchment of certain collective rights for the Indian nations of this country in a new Canadian constitution?


Madam Speaker, I apologize to the hon. member, but I repeat: if he is asking me a theoretical question without indicating what he has in mind-


Will you negotiate?


Oh, oh!


There seems to be a bit of worry over there. The position I have always taken on these discussions-but I realize it is perhaps not the forum to do it-is that there are very few collective rights which cannot be protected by reducing them to individual rights. I should like to know more from the hon. member about what he has in mind.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and also pertains to specific rights. In 1977, Mr. Justice Berger of the Mackenzie Valley pipeline inquiry called for a moratorium on major development in the north until native claims had been settled.
On March 24, 1980, application was made to the NEB for a certificate of public convenience and necessity for the building of a $360 million, 12-inch, 560-mile oil pipeline from Norman Wells to Zama, Alberta.


Order.


Application was made-


Order.


My question is, considering the government's recent initiatives to reopen claims negotiations with the Dene people, will the minister endeavour to persuade his cabinet colleagues to instruct all government agencies involved in the decision on this pipeline to postpone any action until Dene claims have been settled in a manner that is satisfactory to the Dene people?


Madam Speaker, I believe I shall be seeing the leadership of the Dene during the course of this week, and we will be discussing that matter. We are responding to their desire to have the land claims question to which the hon. member referred settled as quickly as possible.
Discussions have indicated that we might be able to find an acceptable solution so that all development is not frozen in the meantime. I wanted the involvement of the Dene in the type of solution that I am hopeful we can arrive at.
April 29, 1980


Madam Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Is part of the oil-pricing package that he will be discussing with his provincial counterparts a tax or a levy on all crude oil used in Canada to pay the cost of imported oil which is to be passed on directly to the consumer in the form of higher prices for petroleum products? Is that a proposal the minister is making to the provincial governments as part of his blended price concept?


Madam Speaker, several alternatives are being considered. They will be discussed with my provincial colleagues, and I shall be very happy to inform the House and the hon. member as to developments in those discussions.


Now answer the question.


Madam Speaker, I wonder if the minister, who not very long ago was so anxious to have the full details of the previous government's proposals out in the open, would do us the same courtesy as we did to him by giving the full details.
1 wonder if he could give a commitment now that the price he will negotiate with the provincial authorities, including all taxes and levies, will not exceed the increase of $4 or $4.50 proposed by my colleague, the hon. member for St. John's West, in his budget over the next three or four years. Will he make that commitment now, including taxes and levies that I referred to in my first question?


Madam Speaker, I would like to remind the hon. member that we waited for 6'/2 months before we got from his government an indication of what they were planning to do. When we received that indication, it was not acceptable to the House or to the country. So we will take the time necessary over the next few months to discuss these matters extensively with the provinces, and I hope that we will come up with an acceptable solution for all parties concerned and for the Canadian public.
As to the second part of the question raised by the hon. member, I would like to remind him that the proposals contained in the budget of the previous minister of finance-


Four dollars and $4.50.


-were well above the $4 and $4.50 that were mentioned.


No.


Rubbish.


That is not what you said in the election campaign, Marc.
Oral Questions


We have indicated quite clearly that our proposals would produce for Canadian consumers a price that would be lower than that under the previous budget put forward by that government.
Second, I would like to remind hon. members that the best evidence of this is that this year Canadian consumers have saved $2.6 billion already by the decision of this government not to impose the 18 cents tax of their government.


Hear, hear!


Where did you get the money: from a piggybank?


I would like to ask a question of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. The meeting of elders and chiefs which is going on in Ottawa right now will be very much preoccupied with the whole question of financial accountability, as was the Auditor General and the Treasury Board-not so much the accountability of Indian bands but of the department the minister represents in the House.
With regard to the service agreement on which we had such a problem getting agreement from the Indian bands and the federal government-which agreement the minister has now extended until July 15-could the minister tell us whether he has the concurrence of Treasury Board to make this extension, since there has already been an extension from 1979 to 1980? Furthermore, could he tell us what new information he will use to guide him in reaching an agreement by July 15?


Madam Speaker, I advise the hon. member for Prince George-Peace River that my officials, under my instructions, have had discussions with Treasury Board with respect to the service agreement to which the hon. member referred. 1 am going to continue those discussions in parallel fashion with discussions I wish to undertake over the next few months with the Indian leadership on this very contentious question, with the idea that we can jointly come up with a solution that will be satisfactory to all concerned.
That is my desire, and I hope to get under way with those talks as soon as the all chiefs conference is over. Again, there will be discussions on that question during the course of this week.


Madam Speaker, I take it from the minister's remark that he has not obtained the concurrence of Treasury Board to extend the arrangement that we have had with the various Indian bands throughout the country; in other words, there is no assurance that the bands will receive their financing

April 29, 1980
Oral Questions
in the usual manner, since Treasury Board insisted on the implementation of the service agreement.
Furthermore, could the minister address himself particularly to the question of what his policy will be in the future? Will he rely, for instance, on the Beaver report to establish financial accountability of the bands or the more central associations of native people in this country?


Madam Speaker, certainly I am looking at the Beaver report. But to specifically answer the hon. member's question, financing for the bands will continue during this period under the previous arrangement with the BCRs-the band council resolutions. So that has not changed. It will continue during the period in which we have the consultations.
One of the primary reasons for the July 15 date to which the hon. member referred was that it was my hope that, as a result of consultations, we could come up jointly with an acceptable solution that we could put into operation subsequent to that date. If the talks go well, I still feel that is possible. If not, we will have to look at the possibility of an extension because, as I say, I am sure we can work the matter out.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In view of the startling statement made by PQ minister Marcel Leger to the effect that Quebec will have to pay world prices for oil in a few years because Alberta will apparently have to reduce its oil supplies as of 1985, could the minister tell the House whether that statement of the Quebec minister is based on serious studies of the energy situation?


They are liars.


Madam Speaker, I think that this is another rather irrational statement of PQ ministers on the energy question. I am afraid that Mr. Leger is unaware of the existence of the tar sands in Alberta. He would be well advised to make a visit there. He would realize that the province has various forms of gas and oil supplies which will last for decades and should be used to serve all Canadians, including Quebeckers, of course.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Transport. At a press conference yesterday in Vancouver, Senator Perrault of the other place chopped $2 million from the amount of the infrastructure funds announced by the minister for the Prince Rupert grain port development.
Would the minister confirm to this House that the senator's figures are not correct, and that those given by the minister to this House are in fact the amounts allocated?


Madam Speaker, the figures used by the distinguished leader of the government in the other place are right. However, there is $2 million to be added to the $20 million which I think he referred to, and that is for navigational aid. Therefore, the discrepancy is simply that the leader of the government in the other place did not include that item on top of the $20 million to which he referred.


Madam Speaker, in light of the statements made by Senator Perrault at the press conference, would it not be more appropriate in future for these statements to be clarified by an elected representative of this House making the statements?


Hear, hear!


Madam Speaker, I had checked the written document.


Madam Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. It relates to the number of alternatives which he indicated to my colleague from Saskatoon West he would be discussing with provincial counterparts. One of these alternatives, in addition to a higher excise tax on gasoline, would appear to be a tax at the refinery-or whatever one might call that-which is now the subject of some press speculation.
Will the minister confirm directly if that is one alternative? Will he also confirm that such a tax would impact not only upon consumers of automobile and vehicle gasoline, but upon consumers of home heating oil and other non-transportation petroleum products?


Madam Speaker, first I would like to welcome in the House my hon. colleague and critic who was absent a few
April 29, 1980

weeks due to illness. I hope he will remain with us for many months yet.
In reply to his question, I should point out that press reports to which he referred are, of course, speculative and I do not intend to make comments during the negotiations on all items which will appear in newspapers and all speculations from left and right. They are now speculations and I do not intend to deal with them any further.


Madam Speaker, I do not ask the minister to comment on press speculation. Unless I misunderstood him, he indicated to the hon. member for Saskatoon West that there were a number of alternatives, and he did not rule out a specific tax at the refinery level.
Will he also give the commitment that he will not rule out, in discussions with provincial colleagues, the offsets that will obviously be necessary because of the impact not only on oil consumers but specifically on certain income groups and certain geographic regions? I think particularly of Quebec and Atlantic Canada because of their high dependence on oil.


Madam Speaker, my colleagues will have noticed that I indicated to the hon. member for Saskatoon West that we were considering a number of alternatives, but I did not indicate that the one the hon. member was speculating upon was necessarily one of those alternatives.


Oh, oh!


Say it isn't so.


As far as the point raised by the hon. member is concerned, I can give him the clear assurance that I am not going to rule out any alternatives.


Madam Speaker, I wish to address a question to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. In view of the long-standing need to resolve the problem of the British Columbia cut-off land claims-an injustice that affects some 30 Indian bands in British Columbia-and in view of the fact that the previous government was taking concrete and positive steps to resolve this 60-year old issue, could the minister inform the House if negotiations are presently taking place; and, if so, what is the target date for their completion?


Madam Speaker, with respect to these particular land claims, I hope to have discussions on Thursday with the Indian leadership on precisely how they wish to proceed. I will endeavour to speed up the process if I
Oral Questions
possibly can. Pending those further discussions, I prefer to defer giving a more specific answer to the hon. member until next week.


Madam Speaker, I did mention in my preamble that this problem has been going on for some 60 years, and I think the Indians have laid down very specifically what their claims are. I ask the minister to address this problem as soon as possible. Is he contemplating a meeting very shortly with the Indians on this question?


Yes, Madam Speaker, I most certainly am. As I say, I hope the meetings will get under way this week. This is one of the real benefits of having the conference at this particular stage. We can talk about the process and we can talk about meetings in the very near future to keep the process going in an endeavour to resolve this particular problem.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. In light of the government's commitment to affirmative action, can the minister assure this House that he will support Alberta's policies on native employment, and that the Alsands pricing and taxation agreement will include clauses to ensure the recruitment, training and employment of native people and also ensure business opportunities for native people?


Madam Speaker, I will certainly be pleased to raise this matter with my counterpart, the minister of energy for Alberta, when I see him. As part of the general policies of this government, any steps taken in the area of affirmative action to increase the employment of minority groups and women in the work force will be supported by this government.


Obviously, the minister did not hear the first part of my question. I was asking if he would go along with the Alberta government policies. My supplementary is to the Prime Minister. In light of the government's commitment to Canadian ownership, is this government committed to equity participation by the native people for the development of the tar sands and heavy oil industry in northern Alberta?


Madam Speaker, I cannot answer that we are committed to that, but it is certainly an option that the Indian people might want to pursue.

April 29, 1980
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State for Small Businesses. Considering the rumours that have been spread in the national capital area regarding a possible federal subsidy to the city of Ottawa for its convention centre, can the minister tell the House whether he intends to make a similar subsidy for the convention centre of Hull, a city which, as the minister knows very well, is as much as Ottawa a component of the national capital area?


Madam Speaker, as 1 indicated yesterday, the whole policy on financial aid to convention or trade centres is being revised, and 1 would like to remind the hon. member for Hull of something he knows already, that the financial commitments of the federal government in the area of Hull now exceed $500 million. But in the revision we are now doing I shall certainly take into consideration the representations he has made for the municipality he represents.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. The latest in a long list of reports on the mercury poisoning of native Canadians, entitled "Methylmercury in Canada", was released recently by the minister's department and came to what I and many others believe to be an obvious conclusion, namely, that some individuals have mercury levels which are a health risk, and that one can expect the most sensitive to show early or mild symptoms of Reed-minimata disease.
What new steps are the minister and her department taking to stop the systematic poisoning of residents in northern Ontario and northwestern Quebec?
[ Translation]


Madam Speaker, I am not in a position today to answer that question, for the simple reason that the Quebec health minister, Dr. Lazure, for a reason that I do not understand but that 1 am trying to clarify, does not want me to make public the report prepared jointly with McGill University concerning the Crees in Quebec. That is why I would prefer
to wait until this report is published before saying what we will do.


Madam Speaker, I asked the hon. lady what she intended to do herself, through her department, to stop the systematic poisoning of native Canadians my question was not about Dr. Lazure's or any other report.
What is the minister doing, for instance, to encourage the provincial governments which are involved here to compensate people whose lives have been affected by this poisoning, so that they can return to a state of health, so that alternative economies might be developed-matters of the sort that were dealt with in the report and to which my original question referred?


The hon. member did not understand. 1 will try to explain why I want co-operation and why we need provincial co-operation in this area. Naturally, we are trying to control mercury poisoning in some Indian reservations. On the federal side, that means I have nothing new to add since we are continuing our monitoring, and 1 think that in the end the right solution will be to have health workers from the Indian communities work inside the reservations so as to inform their fellow Indians and improve their eating habits. Moreover, if there are specific instances and industrial or other causes of pollution affecting the environment, we need help from the provinces. That is why, I repeat, 1 want Dr. Lazure's approval or else I will go ahead and publish the most recent study so that we can have an over-all picture of the situation, because this is indeed a very important study.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources.
In view of the recent statements of PQ ministers Landry and Joron, to the effect that Quebeckers should pay the world price for their oil and natural gas, which tremendous increase could be offset by exporting electricity, can the minister give the House the assurance that Canadians, and Quebeckers in particular, because they belong to Canada, should have the advantage of paying a far lower price than the world price for their oil and gas? Moreover, could he say whether the exports of electricity would make up for the high cost of oil in a sovereign Quebec?


Madam Speaker, here again we are dealing with a
April 29, 1980

whole series of statements coming from PQ ministers that are completely groundless. In the last few years, all Canadians, and Quebeckers in particular, have benefited greatly from the fact that our price in Canada has been lower than the world price. This government has clearly indicated that we would arrive at a made-in-Canada price for oil and gas that would be lower and will continue being lower than the international price, which will be advantageous for all Canadians, including Quebeckers, as long as they belong to the country known as Canada.
In answer to the second part of the question, I would say that clearly the exports of electricity mentioned by the ministers would be totally inadequate as compensation for the world price a sovereign Quebec would have to pay. According to the best forecasts, such exports could bring in some $600 million, while oil imports at world prices would cost over $6.8 billion. What we are witnessing here is a bunch of nonsense meant, literally, to hoodwink Quebeckers in the current referendum struggle.


Madam Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. What emphasis, in Canada's over-all energy program and policy, is the government placing on coal?


Madam Speaker, we are placing a high emphasis on coal. Together with the provinces which have a lot of coal, we are carrying out many examinations in this field. The hon. member knows, however, that there are certain problems in connection with coal exploitation in terms of the environment and the cost of production in some areas. These are being examined.
Currently, for instance, discussions with British Columbia are going on concerning the development of whole new areas of that province for the exploitation of coal, some of it for export. If we could count on a sufficiently high demand in Canada, I can assure the hon. member that we would want to examine the coal option very closely as being one which would be added to those arising out of our large resources of gas and other forms of energy.


I appreciate the minister's answer. I wonder if he could outline any steps the government is presently taking to deal with the great issue with regard to coal from the west and from the maritimes, and tell us in particular whether anything is being done about the gasification of coal.


Madam Speaker, the question of the gasification of coal is one which has been examined and which is still being reviewed on an almost constant basis. I must advise the hon. member, however, that it appears at the present time that coal gasification for domestic purposes would result in a more expensive product than the large amounts of gas we already
Oral Questions
have, so it would not appear that coal gasification for domestic purposes is the most economical way of allocating our resources at the present time.
As far as the question of transportation tariffs for coal is concerned, I would prefer to refer this matter to my colleague, the Minister of Transport. Again, it involves the question of cost and such a matter would be reviewed as part of the general question of tariffs for transportation of goods in this country.


Madam Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. In view of the fact that delay and indecision on the part of the government in appointing special land claims negotiators for the Yukon and Mackenzie Delta regions is giving rise to all kinds of wild speculation and rumours, including the possibility of the appointment of Dr. Lloyd Barber for the Yukon and Dr. John Naysmith for the Delta, could the minister, in order to allay the apprehensions and suspicions of the residents of these areas, either confirm or deny that he is considering the appointment of these persons? When does he expect the appointment of special land claims negotiators to take place?


Madam Speaker, in the Yukon and the Northwest Territories one thing became abundantly clear, that is, that the governments of both territories and the people generally-whether it be people involved in the business community, or the leadership of native organizations-indicated that one of the clouds that was perpetually over the territories was the fact that the land claims question was not settled.
I assured them that I would proceed in an endeavour to appoint negotiators as quickly as possible, and that I am doing. These rumours may emanate from the fact that various names were suggested by governments and by other people interested who, they felt in their own wisdom, would be appropriate for the job.


Not in the north, they would not.


Many names were suggested, there is no question about it. So I am endeavouring to find out who is available, who might be prepared to take on the job, and I hope to have an answer to that question within the next week or ten days. But I would advise the hon. member that it is not easy to find a person willing to take the job in terms of the time he will be called upon to give to it in order to do an adequate job. I am sure the hon. member is aware of that.

April 29, 1980
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, the approach of the previous Government of Canada to this question in appointing a member of the Elouse to act in the capacity of a negotiator was apparently favourably received. Could the minister consider that possibility again?


Madam Speaker-


Don't phone Judge Berger.


-I have considered that possibility. 1 think it would be appropriate for members of the House, be it my parliamentary secretary or others who are interested, to act in an advisory capacity to any negotiator. But it became quite clear to me that what everybody had in mind was somebody who would sit down and work at it in a constant fashion and perhaps be involved in negotiations not only taking place in Ottawa but in the territories themselves.
That type of mandate would rule out, it seems to me, any member of the House carrying on negotiations on an active basis. It would not be realistic, and 1 think they understand that. Someone indicated that that was fine, but they certainly did not want a member of the bureaucracy, and I was quite prepared to go along with that suggestion.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of the Environment. Given that the Ontario government has made known that it will soon be making a major announcement concerning measures to abate acid rain-particularly that coming from Inco-and given the fact that this particular initiative will be welcomed, for example, by the Americans who will see it as an indication that at least Ontario is serious about this problem, even if the federal government is footdragging, would the minister tell the House what specific steps he intends to take now to ensure the early completion of an agreement with the United States for the abatement of acid rain on both sides of the border?


Madam Speaker, some of the argumentation of the hon. member is false. It is not the federal government that has been dragging its feet in this matter. Indeed, the action which Ontario is about to take has been helped considerably by studies done at the federal level and on the information provided to it about the situation. It is not a question of our dragging our feet, but a question of Ontario and the Government of Canada acting co-operatively to resolve this problem.
The hon. member may want to refer back to some previous issues of Hansard to see that, indeed, the question of pressing the United States has been discussed here before. I have indicated to the House previously that we are pressing the Americans to reach an agreement. That was the subject of my
discussions with the United States a couple of weeks ago, and the matter was discussed again with secretary of state Vance on his visit to Ottawa, and I believe that substantial progress has been made.


My supplementary question is also directed to the Minister of the Environment, Madam Speaker. He has mentioned research and studies. As he will know, the previous government made a commitment in principle to a substantial increase in funding for acid rain research. This, again, demonstrates that government's concern about the problem whereas the present government seems to be less concerned.
Would the minister indicate, now, whether the commitment made by the previous government to such increased funding for acid rain research will be honoured by the new government, and whether it considers this an area of high priority?


Madam Speaker, I will try to say to the hon. member as politely and forcefully as I can that I have no attack to make on the previous government's record in this direction. But the hon. member is completely off base in suggesting that there has been any reluctance on our part to proceed vigorously in this matter. The facts are exactly the contrary, and the hon. member does himself no credit in asserting the opposite.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In an interview televised last evening, the minister reiterated his view that except in the field of aid there is no need to re-examine or have any public input to our foreign and defence policies, including our NATO and NORAD alliances.
My question to the minister is: Does this mean that the minister does not favour a six months' extension of the NORAD agreement in order to allow a review of that agreement by the Standing Committee on External Affairs and National Defence?


Madam Speaker, the hon. member has not quoted me quite correctly. What I said last night was that I did not see a need for a total review of our foreign policy. I am very happy to have contributions from Parliament and from the public in the area of foreign policy and, in particular, I hope we will soon be able to announce that we are able to have a parliamentary contribution to the question that the hon. member raises with respect to the alliance.
V-thN
April 29, 1980


Madam Speaker, may I ask the Minister of National Defence if he is in favour of a six months' extension of the NORAD agreement so that there can be a critical review of that agreement by the standing committee of the House on a reference from him, or from him and the Secretary of State for External Affairs jointly?


Madam Speaker, without presuming on the decision which will be taken after discussion with different committees, 1 think it would be a logical and reasonable way of doing it.


Madam Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Transport further to a question put to the minister yesterday by my colleague, the hon. member for Hamilton-Wentworth.
Can the minister advise whether he has acquainted himself with the location of the Mount Hope airport, and could he advise us if the expansion of that facility will proceed as announced by the previous government?


Madam Speaker, I do not have anything to add to what 1 said yesterday on that subject. I am well informed of the location of the airport, and particularly well informed of the number of steps which need to be taken-to which 1 referred yesterday- before the runway is reoriented and the terminal extended. I gave the full explanation yesterday.


I take it from the minister's reply that there is no commitment on the part of the government to proceed with the expansion announced by the previous Conservative government.
Could the minister say whether more studies have to be done? Is this what he is saying, that more studies are required before the expansion can proceed? Seventeen studies have been done so far on that airport expansion. They have examined every groundhog and tadpole from Copetown to Tapley-town and back. Surely you do not need more studies.


Madam Speaker, I answered the question yesterday by saying that the past commitment to $100 million or $45 million for that purpose was not what was paramount in my mind. What was paramount in my mind was to do the right thing in this particular instance. I indicated very clearly yesterday that there were a number of obstacles to clear, and I mentioned some specifically.


I like you better when you are serious.
Oral Questions TRANSPORT


Madam Speaker, I should like to direct my question to the Minister of Transport because of the uncertainty caused by conflicting statements made for a number of weeks over the whole question of the port of Prince Rupert.
Can he assure the House at this time that, first, the port will proceed as planned; and, second, that the funding will be similar to the funding set down by the previous Progressive Conservative government, which was acceptable to all parties in western Canada including the consortium, and also the provincial governments in western Canada?


Madam Speaker, I have explained that question a number of times. It is terribly simple.


Oh, oh!


My predecessor referred to $42 million. If one adds the navigational aids to that, one will have $44 million. If one deducts about $8 million, which is the commitment of Alberta and British Columbia to that project, one will have-


It is $36 million.


I am coming to it. If one deducts from that about $14 million, which is the cost of the wharf that will be built on a cost recovery basis, one will have $22 million which is the extent of the federal government's direct contribution to that project.


This sounds like the energy formula.


There have been a number of discussions on the wharf.


That is a good place to have a discussion.


On the wharf, or on the rails?


My understanding is that an agreement has been reached, on a cost recovery basis, between the National Harbours Board and the consortium. There is still one point to be finalized; it has to do with the lease on the land. That is being discussed presently and, hopefully, a conclusion will soon be reached on that also.


Madam Speaker, I have just one short supplementary question. The minister was in the process of alluding to this at the conclusion of his statement. When does he feel that the negotiations will be concluded? Can he indicate that to the House? Also, when does he think construction will start on the proposed terminal? Will it take place in the latter part of 1980, or will it be delayed until 1981?
518

April 29, 1980

Newfoundlanders both in the House and outside the House. I should have checked further the usually reliable information I got.
I have now checked and the answer I received is that Air Canada is of the view that traffic flows indicate that the best use of equipment and schedule-they failed to mention members of Parliament- is to concentrate on westbound in the morning and eastbound in the evening. The present intention is to have flights as follows: departing Ottawa in the afternoon at 1600 and reaching St. John's at 2240; then in the morning a flight from St. John's would be leaving at 7.15 and arrive in Ottawa at 10.32. So members of Parliament would leave in the afternoon of Friday at 1600 and be back here at ten o'clock on Monday, which is not a bad idea, I think.
I have asked Air Canada to review this further, and I will be discussing that with them.


Is that both ways?


Both ways.


Are they to Quebec?


The flights are from Ottawa to St. John's.


They have misled you again.


Point of Order-Mr. McGrath
['Order. I have the honour to inform the House that the Clerk Assistant of the House has laid upon the table the second report of the Clerk of Petitions stating that he has examined the petition presented by the hon. member for Churchill (Mr. Murphy) and finds that it meets the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.']
Madam Speaker, the present development entitles me to believe that the last thing to be clarified, which has to do with the lease, will be clarified in the coming days and that construction will begin in mid-May.


Order. I have the honour to inform the House that the Clerk Assistant of the House has laid upon the table the second report of the Clerk of Petitions stating that he has examined the petition presented by the hon. member for Churchill (Mr. Murphy) and finds that it meets the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.


Madam Speaker, I wish to rise on a point of order. It arises out of a reply to questions asked in the House yesterday by the hon. member for Humber-Port au Port-St. Barbe (Mr. Tobin) and the hon. member for St. John's West (Mr. Crosbie). A question was directed to the Minister of Transport (Mr. Pepin) referring to the recently announced decline in service by Air Canada between the city of St. John's and the national capital, to which the Minister of Transport replied, as reported on page 454 of Hansard, as follows:
But my very recently acquired information is that there will be such a service direct to St. John's, and that will be announced next week-or start next week.
That is the end of the quotation. I am sure the hon. minister, whom I know and respect, does not want to mislead the House deliberately or otherwise. But in today's paper there is a quotation from his office to the effect-to quote one of his officials-"We goofed; there is not to be such a direct service announced."
1 realize how anxious the hon. minister was to accommodate his supporter in the back benches, the hon. member for Humber-Port au Port-St. Barbe, but if I may paraphrase the hon. member for St. John's West and indeed the minister's officials, I am sure the minister would not want to deliberately "goo