Madam Speaker, whereas the consumer price index for June was 12.8 per cent higher than one year ago, which is the highest rate of increase in 33 years, and whereas the government for the first time in history has invoked closure to shut down Parliament in order to divert the attention of Canadians to the glories of international summitry and away from the government's appalling economic failures, national divisiveness, and cartel scandal at home, 1 move, seconded by the hon. member for Cambridge (Mr. Speyer):
That this House condemns the government for pretending international triumph when in fact it has produced tragedy in Canada.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, previously visiting heads of governments of Canada's closest allies have been invited to address joint sessions of Parliament. Canada has a close political, cultural and economic relationship with the Federal Republic of Germany, one of our NATO partners. In not inviting the head of West Germany, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, to address Parliament the government has slighted our esteemed guest, the people of West Germany, and the Parliament of Canada. Therefore I move, seconded by the hon. member for Kingston and the Islands (Miss MacDonald):
That this House protests the decision of the government not to have our reliable friend. Chancellor Schmidt, address Parliament during his current state
visit to Canada, and that this House extends its heartfelt welcome to the head of the government of one of our closest allies.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, there are times when I realize more than ever how valuable I feel this institution is, and I must say that I deplore it when anything is done which does damage to it. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Vancouver East (Mrs. Mitchell):
That this House calls on the government to show respect for Parliament by withdrawing its announced intention to invoice closure under Standing Order 33 on the adjournment motion now before the House.


Hear, hear!


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, in light of the fact that the tourist season in the country is in the midst of its peak period, and because of the potential of the tourist industry to assist in generating extra income for all sectors of the economy, and because thousands of tourist operators are experiencing severe financial hardship due to excessively high interest rates in Canada, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Fundy-Royal (Mr. Corbett):
That the Minister of State for Small Businesses and Tourism take immediate action on behalf of the people he represents, and establish a program of financial assistance to aid tourist operators now when they need help and not after many have gone bankrupt or deeply into debt.

July 17, 1981
5.0.	43


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, whereas proposals to reduce VIA Rail passenger service are before cabinet and a unilateral decision without public input could result in the cancellation of the Atlantic Limited, the only passenger train which serves New Brunswick's three largest cities and all of southwestern New Brunswick, and whereas the government appears to be prematurely reversing the 1979 CTC decision taken after extensive public consultation and remarkable progress by VIA on the shortest and most widely used route between Halifax and Montreal, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Fundy-Royal (Mr. Corbett):
That the government be directed to refer the whole matter of VIA Rail service, CN and CP charges to VIA, and the question of the VIA corporate structure to the CTC for public input.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


5.0.	43
Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity to the barley growers of western Canada who now find that their select barley has been rejected, and find themselves unable to deliver it because of the arbitrary April 30 deadline for quota re-assignment of the Canadian Wheat Board. In view of the fact that there is presently a 100 bushel per acre quota on barley, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Saskatoon West (Mr. Hnatyshyn):
That the Canadian Wheat Board allow those producers to re-assign immediately their select barley acres or move to an open quota on barley, which would make re-assignment unnecessary and allow those producers to fill the Canadian Wheat Board's need for barley that is indicated by the present high quota.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, I rise on a matter of urgency under the provisions of Standing Order 43. Since the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Clark) has drawn attention to the ongoing service of Priority Post during the postal strike, this service, along with many private couriers, has been picketed by striking postal workers. In view of this further example of interference in the postal strike by the Conservative party, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Lambton-Middlesex (Mr. Bloomfield):
That this House pass the adjournment motion so that the new postal mediator. Judge Gold, is not sabotaged by the Leader of the Opposition in his attempts to end the postal strike.


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, the Atlantic Limited is the most highly used train linking Atlantic Canada to the rest of the nation. Its use has increased significantly since VIA's inception of the service. Today, on checking availability of space, I have been informed that the train is sold out. This train of some 15 cars is usually sold out. I move, seconded by the hon. member for York-Sunbury (Mr. Howie):
That, as it is the stated intention of the government to eliminate poor ridership routes, and as it is obvious that the Atlantic Limited does not fit this criteria with passenger miles continually increasing as well as revenues, the Minister of Transport assures the tens of thousands of people who use this train annually that they will not have this vital transportation link discontinued.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.
July 17, 1981

[DOT] (mo)


5.0.	43
Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. Whereas the government recently introduced by order in council sweeping measures which give the cabinet broad powers to direct arbitrarily and manage all aspects of Canadian life, and whereas this was done without the knowledge, assent or consideration of Parliament, and whereas there are serious dangers inherent in this arbitrary assumption of powers in the event of vaguely defined emergencies, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Vancouver East (Mrs. Mitchell):
That this House opposes the imposition of order in council 1981-1305 giving the Solicitor General the responsibility to establish civilian internment camps, and directs government to bring the emergency planning order before this House in a bill which can be debated by the people's representatives instead of imposing these measures in secrecy behind cabinet's closed doors.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


5.0.	43
Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. The budget of the government is in a shambles. The cost of living has gone up 38 per cent since this government took over. Therefore, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Simcoe North (Mr. Lewis):
That this House demands that the Government of Canada prepare a new budget which will propose an anti-inflation policy to protect consumers from the double whammy of inflation and high interest rates.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. The Trudeau government, at great expense-


Order!
Oral Questions


-to the Canadian taxpayer, has provided the national and world media with a slick package of briefing material for the forthcoming Ottawa Summit. Included in this material is a backgrounder on the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) in which he allows himself to be described as possessing "a keen, biting intellect", as a leader with world prestige, and as one who places party and country ahead of his personal desire to resign from the leadership of his party. For the sake of completeness, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Malpeque (Mr. Gass):
That the House calls upon the government to add to the backgrounder that the same man now has the distinction of being the first Canadian Prime Minister ever to invoke closure to close down Parliament to muzzle opposition criticism of his government's economic incompetence and cover up the uranium cartel scandal.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43. Whereas Prime Minister Trudeau-


Order!


-has become a great dictator with his clones carrying out his every wish-closure again-with this the First time in Canadian history that a Parliament has been adjourned in order to give the Liberals a holiday; and with the laying on of the Prime Minister's hands on Jim Coutts with instructions for Coutts to be named the Liberal candidate, etc., etc., I move, seconded by the hon. member for Ontario (Mr. Fennell):
That this House deplores the actions of this dictatorial Prime Minister and his majority government who are betraying the people of Canada, particularly the Canadians who died in foreign lands fighting against dictatorship.


Hear, hear!


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


No.


Madam Speaker, my question, in the absence of the Prime Minister-

July 17, 1981
Oral Questions


Louder!


-is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. At a time when Parliament is being shamefully gagged by this government, we now face the highest increase in the rate of inflation since the immediate postwar period. It stands today at 12.8 per cent. That represents an increase of 38 per cent since this government took office.
My question to the Minister of Finance, or the Acting Prime Minister is: since we are about to close Parliament by the invocation of closure, can he tell this House and can he tell the Canadians what relief they can expect to get during the months ahead, when Parliament will not be sitting, from these rising prices in food, cost of living, high interest rates-the whole critical factor?


Madam Speaker, we are sorry that the figure is that high, but the hon. member is asking what we expect as relief in the next few weeks and months. Of course the increase in the month of June had been principally caused, in the case of food, because of fresh vegetables and all these items which, beginning in July and August, will not be imported to Canada any more. We will have the benefit of the produce being produced in Canada. Therefore, in terms of fresh fruits and vegetables, the prices are likely to decrease during the summer months, so that will help.
The second aspect of the increase in the price index was caused by the rapid increase in the price of energy. Of course I think that at least we will not be following the advice of the opposition party-to increase energy prices rapidly to the world level-because otherwise the increase on that factor would be even worse.


Higher, higher!


Tell us about the cartel.


That is a lie. That is a lie.


So there will be no more increase.


You are a liar.


There were some in the spring, due to special circumstances, which will not be there in the summer.


Increases in the price of produce have gone up by 37.6 per cent over June of last year. The Acting Prime Minister cannot blame that on the farmers. There is only one culprit, and that is his government, and he knows it.


Hear, hear!


We now have the worst rate of inflation, with the exception of Italy, of any of the seven western industrialized countries which are meeting in Ottawa. There may be a
problem at the Summit, but there is a crisis in this country. I believe that the low income earners, the unemployed of this country, and the old age pensioners have a right to expect some relief from the policies of this government.
I want to ask the Acting Prime Minister, in his capacity as Minister of State for Social Development, given the fact that the government's only response to date has been a $30 increase in the GIS, what relief can the poor, the unemployed and the old age pensioners of this country expect in the next three months when this Parliament will not be sitting?


Madam Speaker, I think I said earlier that, on the contrary, I am not blaming the farmers. I said that the farmers of Canada will be helping us, because we will have their fresh fruits and vegetables to eat, come July and August. Therefore, the farmers will be helping us, not hurting us. I do not blame the farmers. I said that, unfortunately, the prices of imported food increased very rapidly in the month of June, and we had to face that problem; but because of the Canadian farmers the problem will not be the same in July and August, because we will benefit from the work of our farmers. Therefore, the hon. member was wrong when he made that accusation.
The opposition is asking the government to spend even more money at this time, but it is the same group of people who complain because the deficit is too high. The hon. member is asking us to add to the many increases that we have put into the social programs over the last 18 months. In many instances it was to re-establish some payments which had been cut off by the hon. member's party when it was in power.


Hear, hear!


The minister makes a very unattractive Marie Antoinette because what he is saying to the people out there is that during the month of June he let them eat cake because they were faced with high produce prices.
I should like to put my next question to the Minister of Finance, or the Acting Prime Minister in his capacity as Minister of State for Social Development. Since this government took power the misery index that comprises the unemployment rate, the interest rate and the inflation rate, has gone up by a whopping 250 per cent. That represents misery. I want to ask the Acting Prime Minister, since the government has now taken the responsibility of invoking closure to close down this Parliament in the face of this crisis in the country, what measures we can expect-


Joe is in trouble.


No, my friend. You are in trouble and your leader, and you know it.
July 17, 1981


Order, please. The question, please.


I apologize, Madam Speaker.


Ask the question.


Groucho Marx always seems to speak from his seat.


Order, please. Order. We will have the question right away, or we will not have it.


Thank you, Madam Speaker. Surely, Madam Speaker, we are entitled to expect some indication from the government, since their monetary policies are not working, since they gave an undertaking that they would not-


Order. Order, please. The hon. member will ask the question immediately. One sentence, leading to a question, with a question mark-that is a question. He has had several preambles and I cannot be more patient with him.


Does the Acting Prime Minister shamefully intend to adjourn this Parliament by closure, without doing anything about inflation in this country?
[ Translation]


Madam Speaker, I should like to point out to the hon. member in the first place that the unemployment rate in Canada is the lowest in five years and is therefore less than the rate that prevailed when he was a minister in the previous government. Secondly, when the Progressive Conservatives were in power economic growth was at an absolute standstill in our system. Since our return to power we have managed to increase the economic growth in Canada. Unfortunately, there is an aspect which we deeply deplore, and that is more inflation than we had anticipated. That is why the Minister of Finance is determined not to allow the government deficit to increase at the present time, which would only make inflation much worse. It is a situation we are now trying to deal with as quickly as possible, and this is no easy task, but I think that of the three factors I have mentioned, two of them are most significant. We have the lowest unemployment rate in five years. We are now in a period of economic growth, and I think that the policies of the Minister of Finance will succeed in the medium term in checking inflation.


Madam Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Finance I want to direct my question to the Acting Minister of Finance. I would say to him, or to her, that the government is doing nothing while Canadians out there are hurting. I want to ask the Acting Minister of Finance about the case of a single parent, a mother, with three children, who is working but cannot quite
Oral Questions
make ends meet. This mother is without her family allowance cheque this month.


That is not true.


Yet she has to go to the supermarket today. She has to go to the supermarket and she does not have her family allowance cheque. She finds that the price of vegetables is up by more than one third, and the price of dairy products is up by 15 per cent. Since the Minister of Finance said that he would not fight inflation on the backs of the poor, which is what he is doing, I would ask the acting minister what effort he is going to make on behalf of this single mother who may have to cut back on dairy products and fresh vegetables for her children, because of the government's lack of action?


Madam Speaker, it is always very moving to single out an exceptional case and then try to appeal to emotions. If one wants the people to understand the policies and fully appreciate the current situation of the country, one should refrain from resorting to lowly demagoguery and make an effort to appeal to reason instead.
The hon. member said that the Minister of Finance has shown no compassion for the most underprivileged people in our society. I might remind the hon. member that when the budget was announced last September, her leader, herself and other members of her party were saying how imperative it was to maintain the indexation of the income tax schedules so as to shelter low income earners from inflation. The Minister of Finance did just that and therefore the people to whom the hon. member has referred ended up with $1.6 billion more in their pocket so as to be able to cope with soaring prices.
I should like to add as well that, when consultations were being held about the budget, we received many representations to the effect that certain social measures no longer be indexed. Indexation has been maintained for old age benefits, family allowances and all social assistance payments made by the government so that the most underprivileged Canadians were cushioned against the impact of rising prices.


Madam Speaker, obviously the minister does not care about those many Canadians who have to cut back on dairy products and fresh vegetables for their children. He mentioned the Minister of Finance. In May the Minister of Finance boasted that the rate of growth in the CPI had slowed down from 1.3 per cent to 0.7 per cent that month. Referring to the slowdown, as reported in Hansard at page 9631 he went on to say the following:

July 17, 1981
Oral Questions
If that trend continues for the rest of the year, certainly it would register an appreciable drop in the over-all inflation rate.
That trend has not continued nor has there been an appreciable drop in the rate of inflation. Therefore what plans, projects or programs does the minister have in mind to take into consideration a situation that he did not foresee just two months ago?


They have nothing, and that is why they are running from Parliament.
[ Translation]


To
answer that question, Madam Speaker, I think we must go further than a review of the current figures which represent the increases between June 1, 1980, and June 1, 1981, and analyse them. As the Acting Prime Minister said a moment ago, roughly 34 per cent of that increase is due to the higher costs of energy, fruits and fresh produce. As the Minister of Justice pointed out earlier, thanks to the efficiency of agricultural producers and, of course, to the current season, deliveries of fresh fruit produced in Canada will appreciably lower the price of such foodstuffs so that the people about whom the hon. member expressed concern will find it easier to buy them at more moderate prices. If we want to follow a policy under which Canadians will be increasingly relieved, we must continue to support the gradualist approach of the Minister of Finance as well as the policy adopted by the government with respect to energy prices.


Madam Speaker, a very interesting motion was moved earlier under the provisions of Standing Order 43 about sabotage. The only sabotage going on here is that of the incomes of low and middle-income Canadians by the government.
My question is for the Minister of State for Finance, and I am hoping for an answer to it today.


You won't get one.


The CPI is up, the bank rate is to be sustained for many months to come, and as a result all of us will be facing many hardships. The minister falls back continually on the fact that we gave $35 to an already inadequate pension base and that we have indexed pensions. That is not an acceptable answer.
What consideration has the government given to alternatives that we might produce if we stayed on a little longer? What consideration has the government given to tax reform legislation, a cost of living tax credit, the setting up of a fair prices commission, and a reduction or an offsetting of interest rates? What other alternatives does the government have that may help Canadians?


Madam Speaker, the kind of measures mentioned by the hon. member are, of course, of a fiscal nature and are normally announced in a budget. Since the Minister of Finance has indicated that there will be a budget in the Fall, various measures are now being considered by the Department of Finance to cope with the economic situation. However, I would like to remind the hon. member that measures have already been taken and implemented, such as the Small Business Development Bond, which will be of great benefit in the present situation of high interest rates and which will greatly help the small business sector. There are also many other measures. The hon. member could refer to the last budget to see what has been done.


Madam Speaker, these measures have been very helpful to the banks. So has the government's interest rate program. Its energy policy has been very helpful to the oil companies. The only segment the government has not been helpful toward is low and middle-income Canadians and pensioners. The minister mentioned that food prices are going up. Possibly he can tell us how farmers will be able to produce lower-priced food when energy prices and interest rates are going up? We are not going to see reduction in the cost of living.
There were questions about bank profits. What is the government doing to prevent the windfall of bank profits that is occurring under the interest rate program? Is the government considering using that money as a possible offset against high interest rates, and attempting to ameliorate the cost of living?


They are trying to run away from Parliament, that is what they are doing.


Madam Speaker, in his preamble the hon. member has referred to the lack of concern of the government for certain groups of people. In a previous answer I indicated that the basic concern of the government is precisely for those members of our society who need assistance the most, such as the senior citizens. The hon. member says that the increase in the guaranteed income supplement has been minimal, but it still amounted to $420 a year, plus the various increases provided by indexation. The child tax credit this year has reached about $238 per child. These are substantial amounts which apply to the neediest and the most disadvantaged in our society.
July 17, 1981

The hon. member would like the government to panic and implement such programs haphazardly whenever there are worrying signs in the economy. I must say that this is not how this government intends to manage the Canadian economy, because we want to take medium and long-term action which will bring back stability and not cause any upheaval in our economy.


Madam Speaker, the only panic in this House is indicated by the minister's tone of voice and by his lack of an answer. Maybe I can shift to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs because there does not seem to be much coming from the other direction. If that is care, 1 would hate to see contempt.
One factor, especially in food prices, is the degree of corporate concentration in this country and what appears to be absolute control over prices, with no competition. The taking over of Dominion Stores by Provigo is an example of concentration in the food industry. It is the same situation whether it is fish on the west coast or food in Ontario. Will the minister indicate what his department is doing to see that prices and the consumer price index are being held in line and that Canadian consumers are not being gouged by the government's failure to act positively for years on the degree of corporation concentration in this country?


Madam Speaker, the issue of corporate concentration in the food industry in Canada is of course a source of concern for the officials of my department and for government as a whole. That is why we have indicated our desire to introduce legislation in the new session to amend the competition Act and specifically to restrict take-over operations in Canada.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Justice. It has to do with the desperate attempt by the government to cover up any evidence of possible ministerial involvement in an illegal cartel. We learned yesterday that not only is the Bertrand report to be hidden from Parliament, but also the Henry report. Now the government wants to throw members of Parliament out of the House of Commons so that we cannot
Oral Questions
continue to ask questions about the possible illegal activity of ministers of the Crown.
My questions have to do with what the government knew in 1972. 1 would like the Minister of Justice to confirm the accuracy of the uranium cartel minutes of a meeting held April 10, 1972, in the boardroom of the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources at which was present Mr. Jack Austin, then deputy minister of energy, subsequently principal secretary to the Prime Minister and now, for his pains, a senator, in which Senator Austin is quoted in the minutes as affirming that the uranium cartel "could later become illegal if orders have to be declined by Canadian producers as a result of the arrangement". Will the minister confirm that Senator Austin gave that advice in 1972, and confirm that the advice which Senator Austin gave in 1972 was correct?


Madam Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition has again spoken about illegality. Some years ago this government asked Mr. Bertrand to look at the possible illegality of a cartel operating in Canada. He took four years to complete that inquiry. He hired some outside lawyers on his own to look at all the files and to make recommendations. They looked at thousands of documents and listened to hundreds of witnesses. Mr. Bertrand and his lawyers looked at all aspects of the legality of the situation and made recommendations to the Attorney General of Canada that six companies should be prosecuted.
I received a report from them which I have accepted. I accepted that recommendation, and I am prosecuting the six companies that had been recommended to be prosecuted. I repeat, I have received a report. I hired the same lawyers who advised Mr. Bertrand, to advise me. They gave me that same advice which they gave Mr. Bertrand, and I followed that advice. All those who, according to the four year inquiry, supposedly committed illegalities, are being prosecuted. There is nothing that I can add now that the matter is before the courts.


Madam Speaker, the minister once again refuses to answer the question. That indicates why he wants to throw members of Parliament out of the House of Commons. We ask questions which he is afraid to answer.


Hear, hear!


Since he refuses to answer, we must assume that the quote attributed to Mr. Austin was correct, that Mr. Austin knew, that the ministers knew, that the government knew in 1972 that this would be an illegal act. We must assume that. Let me ask another question about the same minutes of that meeting in 1972 in the boardroom of the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources, a meeting of the cartel.

July 17, 1981
Oral Questions
Mr. Austin, according to the minutes, stressed that the cabinet was in favour of the arrangement. That is what Mr. Austin said. Will the Minister of Justice stand in his place and tell us whether that statement by Mr. Austin as deputy minister is correct, and whether it is true that in 1972 the cabinet was in favour of an arrangement which it knew would have illegal consequences? Will the minister confirm that?


Madam Speaker, the Prime Minister replied to these questions the other day. At that time the government wanted to establish an international agreement with many nations to protect Canadian producers against the activities of the American government which was shutting out Canadian products from its market. We wanted to ensure that workers in Uranium City and northern Ontario were able to keep working.
The international agreement was known. It had been discussed and agreed to. It was completely legal. The point was, as indicated by the Prime Minister, that this did not give companies in Canada the right to fix the price in the Canadian market. That aspect was referred to a commission. The commission looked at the fixing of prices by Canadian companies in the Canadian market. This was illegal, and that is why I decided to prosecute the six companies which tried to fix the price in the Canadian market.


Madam Speaker, the other day the Prime Minister said he did not know until 1975, and he did not act until 1977. This evidence by Mr. Austin, which the minister cannot deny-and will not deny because he knows it is true-indicates that the Government of Canada had the knowledge that this arrangement could be illegal three years before the Prime Minister admitted he knew.


Madam Speaker, let me ask the Minister of Justice whether there was another opinion by the Canadian Department of Justice, again in 1972, which indicated that the arrangement approved by the cabinet would lead to a possible offence under the Combines Investigation Act by 1977 at the latest. Can the minister confirm that such a report was received in 1972? Can he confirm that the Department of Justice told the then minister of justice and the Government of Canada as early as 1972 that the course upon which they were embarked was a course which could break the law of Canada?


Madam Speaker, I would like to repeat again that when the Canadian government decided to establish an international agreement to make sure that the Canadian producer of uranium would keep producing uranium in Canada, it was to protect the Canadian product against the actions of the American government at that time. That was
done. It was acceptable to everybody because it was the goal of all the people who were producing uranium to make sure we were not shut out completely from the international market because of the action of the American government. This was the problem of the international cartel or the international agreement, but it did not give permission to the companies to try to fix the price in Canada.
It was exactly this problem which was inquired into by a commission for four years. The commission had access to all the government documents it needed. Mr. Bertrand at one point asked to see cabinet minutes, and later on he declared he did not need them, so he had all the documents he wanted. He said that not long ago and, after four years of looking at all the aspects of the illegalities, he made a recommendation to me which I accepted. After four years of inquiry he found that six companies should be prosecuted. I accepted his report. The matter is before the court, and it is up to the court to decide.


Madam Speaker, what Mr. Bertrand in fact said to The Toronto Sun-


Oh, oh!


-was that having access to the cabinet documents would help to confirm his suspicions.
Yesterday I asked the Minister of Justice for the assurance that he would not invoke the doctrine of Crown privilege to block testimony concerning the cartel, or to block the production of papers concerning the cartel in the court case, a doctrine which has been invoked in previous instances relating to the cartel. The minister refused.
In view of the fact that the government is today using its majority to padlock Parliament, will the minister give this House the assurance that under no circumstances will he invoke the doctrine of Crown privilege to frustrate the attempt of courts to get to the bottom of this incident?


Madam Speaker, one of my colleagues established very well some weeks ago that when the source is The Toronto Sun it should not be relied upon too much.
The second thing is that I said yesterday-and I will repeat it for probably the sixth time-that in terms of Canadian courts dealing with Canadian laws and Canadian problems there has been a decision of the appeal division of the Federal Court which says that these documents would be available. I am facing a hypothetical question. I am the Attorney General of Canada. The case is before the court. I have no request from any court or any judge about documents at this time. I do not deal with hypothetical questions, but I would like to say that when we are dealing with Canadian problems before Canadian courts, the documents cannot be prevented from being produced in court because the rule was that foreign
July 17, 1981

tribunals were not to force Canadians against their best interests.


Madam Speaker, the minister is attempting to confuse the issue. The issue does not relate to the gag order. The issue relates to the doctrine of Crown privilege which was invoked by the minister of energy, mines and resources previously to prevent testimony by his officials before provincial government inquiries relating to energy. The issue relates to Crown privilege. The minister refuses to give any assurance that he will not invoke it again.


Madam Speaker, in view of the fact that there are some 40,000 documents Gulf has locked in a safe at McCarthy & McCarthy in Toronto, the release of which the federal government attempted successfully to block so that Gulf could not use them in its cases in the United States, and in view of the fact that the rationale used by the government was on the ground of national sovereignty, which does not apply in cases in Canada, will the minister give the House the assurance that he will take no action, including a re-amendment of the gag order or any other action, to frustrate the production of those documents or any other relevant documents which would be valuable to the defendants in this case?


Madam Speaker, I said earlier-and I have answered this question many times-that there is a ruling of the appeal division of the Federal Court on that. I do not have to answer a question about a situation I do not face. Nobody has asked me any question in any court about it. The case will be before the court. I do not want to have the trial in this House of Commons. There are some companies which are accused. They have rights under Canadian law. They will be before the court. They will make requests of the judge and, if I am faced with some problems at that time, I will cope with them.
1 have given an indication that, in my view, when we are dealing with Canadian problems before Canadian courts in relation to Canadian documents, there are some rules which apply. The gag order will not apply in those circumstances because the gag order was in relation to the intrusion of foreign courts into Canadian affairs.


Madam Speaker, my question is also to the Acting Prime Minister. It concerns another disaster which really must be dealt with before this House closes for the summer. There are tens of thousands of home owners who are very worried and are
Oral Questions
experiencing increasing tension because they insulated with urea formaldehyde foam insulation. Their families have health problems. Their homes are worthless. Their life savings are gone, and the government has persistently refused to help.
In view of the fact that health officials in British Columbia, Alberta and Ontario have now agreed that testing is unreliable and inconclusive and the only solution to this disaster is to remove the foam from these homes, does the minister not agree that the government, which encouraged the use of this foam in the first place, should now have a responsibility to assist home owners to remove it?


Madam Speaker, the answer is no, because we are not as sure as she seems to be. Testing will be done over the summer and the Government of Canada has established a centre which is already operating and which satisfies the needs of many Canadians. An inquiry under the Hazardous Products Act is under way and I think we will have to wait for its findings before making any inferences, despite the hon. member's eagerness to do so.


Madam Speaker, I do not think the minister listened to the reference about health authorities in three provinces having proved that this will not do anything to solve the problem.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Minister of State for Finance. I know that in times of difficult financial restrictions it is difficult for the government to find money to help home owners in the face of a real disaster like this. Therefore, I would like to ask the minister to take a proposal to the cabinet which would not cost extra money but would use funds which are already allocated.
Would the minister propose to cabinet, and particularly the Minister of Finance, that they re-allocate the $5 million budgeted for useless testing of UFFI homes, and will he also propose that they designate the $330 million recently approved for home insulation programs for use in solving the problem the government itself created, the poisoning of the atmosphere in homes?
[ Translation]


Madam Speaker, the answer is no, since the programs and the funds allocated for such programs were fully justified.

July 17, 1981
Oral Questions COMBINES


Madam Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Justice. The minister is aware that the terms of reference of the Bertrand investigation were quite narrow. Mr. Bertrand, for instance, could not consider whether there had been violations of the Criminal Code provisions pertaining to conspiracy by individuals and corporations. Is the minister aware that Mr. William McKe-own, a former director of the combines investigations branch, stated that the only way to deal with the involvement of the government and ministers of the Crown in the cartel is through a special inquiry under the Inquiries Act, and is the minister ready under the circumstances to launch a special inquiry?


Madam Speaker, it is my view that Mr. Bertrand was in a position to make a full investigation of the matter. He stated publicly that he had obtained all documents needed for his investigation. He hired the best lawyers available under the circumstances. Those same lawyers are now working for me as Attorney General, with a view to securing convictions, and I am satisfied that the work done by Mr. Bertrand and his lawyers was quite complete. Further, I have no intention of recommending that a new investigation be conducted by anyone. I will leave it for the courts to decide.


Madam Speaker, the answer demonstrates that the minister is one of the most pleasantly incompetent and naive justice ministers in history. He will say nothing of substance in either language.
My supplementary to the same minister, Madam Speaker, is this. Mr. Bertrand could not consider whether there were violations of the Criminal Code. Will the minister have the courage to turn over the Henry report, the Bertrand report, and all other relevant documents to the Attorney General of the ripped-off consumer province, namely, Ontario, to see whether or not any person or company has violated provisions of the Criminal Code for which the Attorney General of Ontario is responsible, not the Minister of Justice and not Mr. Bertrand?


Madam Speaker, I would like to say that I am the Attorney General of Canada, and if there was an offence in that matter, it was against laws which come under the jurisdiction of the Attorney General of Canada. I have fulfilled all my obligations in accepting the report of Mr. Bertrand and taking legal action against the six companies.
Of course some of the comments of the hon. member do not impress me. I am not at all afraid to compare my record in this
House to the nasty little comments he can make, once in a while.


Bravo, bravo!


Madam Speaker, my question is also to the Minister of Justice. He will remember that on May 26 last he told this House, quite properly, that the final decision to prosecute was within his domain. Subsequently he said that he has acceded to the recommendations of Mr. Brown. The thrust of my question has to do with the recommendations given to the minister by Mr. Brown.
The minister is aware that a conspiracy is nothing more than an agreement between two or more people to commit an illegal act. Mr. MacNabb and Mr. Runnalls were named parties to this agreement, and there must have been a reason. I ask the minister a very plain and simple question. What was Mr. Brown's advice to the minister in recommending that Mr. MacNabb and Mr. Runnalls be named as parties to this illegal agreement, but not the deputy minister, Senator Austin, in circumstances where he was the president of Uranium Canada Limited during the formative years of the cartel?


Madam Speaker, the recommendations of Mr. Brown were very clear.


And confidential.


He recommended that I take legal action against six companies, and he named a certain number of people and companies as unindicted co-conspirators. This is not unprecedented. In previous answers I gave to the House the precedents where, in three different cases of a similar nature, there were unindicted co-conspirators. It is a technique used to give them special status in court in order to help make the case against those who have conspired.
These people are not accused because they did not commit an offence. Mr. Brown's advice to me is the same that he gave to Mr. Bertrand. After four years of work on that file he concluded that there are six companies which shall be prosecuted, and nobody else. I have accepted his recommendation.


My supplementary is to the same minister. We certainly know what he has done; the questions we want to ask pertain to why he has done it. I ask the minister is it a matter of legal technique or a matter of policy that this agreement between Mr. MacNabb and Mr. Runnalls-because that is exactly what it was according to the indictment, an agreement to conspire to commit an unlawful act-is it just a matter of evidence and legal technique that they were named? Is that the only reason?


July 17, 1981

Hon- Jean Chretien (Minister of Justice and Minister of State for Social Development): Madam Speaker, I do not want to start the case here.


I guess not.


I said I have accepted Mr. Brown's recommendations.


Why?


I have hired him as a special prosecutor in this case. He will have all his documents in front of the court and he will use them in order to have the six companies found guilty. His best judgment, accepted by Mr. Bertrand, was that the six companies should be prosecuted and no one else. I have accepted that recommendation, both from Mr. Bertrand and Mr. Brown, and I hope they will be successful in proving in court that the six companies involved are guilty of conspiring to fix prices in Canada.
According to Mr. Brown and Mr. Bertrand, the others were not part of it. After four years of hard work on that matter, I have no reason not to accept their recommendations, or change them.


Madam Speaker, one thing the minister cannot deny is that the Bertrand report recommended the prosecution of Uranium Canada. The minister will know that Uranium Canada is a shell company. I have the letters patent and certificate of continuance with respect to that corporation, which indicate that anything that company does is done under order in council. It is not run by a board of directors, it is run by the cabinet.


By ministers.


The minister has attempted to avoid taking any responsibility in this matter. Will he not now do the honourable thing, stand in his place and not let two public servants wither on the vine? Will he stand up and admit the fact that the Government of Canada, the cabinet in fact, was involved directly with Uranium Canada, and in fact was aware precisely of what was going on and stands convicted in this House of Commons?


Madam Speaker, I would like to say I have done the honourable thing.


Oh!


1 have accepted the recommendations of Mr. Bertrand and Mr. Brown. Not only that-


But you will not publish them. You hide them.


-I have asked Mr. Brown to be the special prosecutor in the case. On top of that, I took that on my own
Motion to Adjourn
responsibility. I did not discuss that in cabinet with my colleagues. I faced all my responsibilities as Attorney General and it was only after the charges were laid in Toronto that I informed cabinet of the action I had taken.
I felt it was my duty as Attorney General to take the best advice I could get in this matter, which was from the people who did the inquiry. In fact I did not seek the opinion of the Department of Justice; I relied on the opinion of the lawyers hired independently by Mr. Bertrand. And I accepted the advice of Mr. Bertrand, too.


I have the honour to inform the House that the Clerk of the House has laid upon the Table the sixty-first report of the Clerk of Petitions stating that he has examined the petition presented by the hon. member for Vancouver East (Mrs. Mitchell) and finds that it meets the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.


Madam Speaker, under the order of motions, and because I am deeply disturbed over what the government plans to do today, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Regina West (Mr. Benjamin):
That the House do now adjourn.


Hear, hear!


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion, the nays have it.

July 17, 1981
Motion to Adjourn
And more than five members having risen:	Madam Speaker: I declare the motion lost.


Call in the members.	Motion (Mr. Knowles) negatived.


Althouse
Benjamin
Biaikie
Cossitt
Appolloni
(Mrs.)
Axworthy
Bachand
Baker
(Gander-Twillingate)
Baker
(Nepean-Carleton) Beatty Begin (Miss)
Berger
Blaker
Blenkarn
Bloomfield
Bockstael
Bradley
Breau
Burghardt
Caccia
Campbell
(Miss)
(South West Nova) Campbell
(Cardigan)
Cardiff
Chenier
Chretien
Clark
(Yellowhead)
Clarke
(Vancouver Quadra) Collenette Cook Cooper Corbin Cosgrove Cote (Mrs.)
Cousineau
Crouse
Cullen
Darling
Dawson
de Corneille
Deniger
Dingwall
Dion
Dionne
(Chicoutimi)
Dionne
(Northumberland-
Miramichi)
Dubois Dupont Dupras Erola (Mrs.)
Ethier
Evans
Fennell
Ferguson
Fisher
Fleming
de Jong Ittinuar Knowles Kristiansen
++NAYS
Messrs.
Flis
Foster
Fraser
Frith
Garant
Gass
Gendron
Gimaiel
Gingras
Gourd
(Argenteuil-Papineau)
Gourde
(Levis)
Gray
Guilbault
Gurbin
Halliday
Hargrave
Henderson
Herbert
Hnatyshyn
Hopkins
Howie
Hudecki
Huntington
Irwin
Jarvis
Jelinek
Johnston
Joyal
Kaplan
Kelly
Kempling
Korchinski
Kushner
Lachance
Lajoie
Lamontagne
Lang
Lapierre
Lapointe
(Charlevoix)
Lapointe
(Beauce)
Lefebvre
Lewis
Loiselle
Lonsdale
Lumley
MacBain
MacDonald
(Miss)
Mackasey
MacLaren
MacLellan
Malone
Maltais
Marceau
Masse
Masters
Mayer
Miller Mitchell (Mrs.) Skelly- II.
Mazankowski
McCain
McCauley
McCuish
McDermid
McGrath
McKinnon
McKnight
McMillan
McRae
Munro
(Esquimalt-Saanich)
Munro
(Hamilton East)
Murta
Neil
Nicholson
(Miss)
Nowlan
Oberle
Olivier
Ostiguy
Ouellet
Paproski
Parent
Penner
Pepin
Peterson
Pinard
Portelance
Prud'homme
Regan
Reid
(Kenora-Rainy River) Robinson
(Etobicoke-Lakeshore)
Roche
Rompkey
Rooney
Rossi
Roy
Schroder
Scott
(Hamilton-Wentworth) Simmons Speyer Tardif Taylor Tessier Thacker Tobin Tousignant Towers Turner Vankoughnet Veillette Watson Weatherhead Wilson
Wright-160.
Madam Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I have just had an opportunity to read the "blues" for earlier in the day, and 1 note that during remarks by the Minister of Justice (Mr. Chretien) in an exchange between the Minister of Justice and the hon. member for Saskatoon West (Mr. Hnatyshyn) I am quoted in Hansard as saying, in reference to the comments of the Minister of Justice: "That is a lie. That is a lie". Later I am quoted as saying to the Minister of Justice: "You are a liar".
Whatever I might think about the conduct and probity of the Minister of Justice, those remarks are unparliamentary and I would like to withdraw them.


Hear, hear!


That point of order is well taken.
* *
*


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Madam Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: Nos. 901, 1,977, 2,288, 2,514, 2,608 and 2,614.


1.	For the fiscal year (a) 1978-79 (b) 1979-80, what was the number and total value of contracts let