Madam Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. Whereas ten first ministers representing and reflecting the diversity of Canada were able to put aside their personal, political and sectional interests in order to reach a compromise which will provide Canadians with a patriated Constitution containing a flexible amending formula, a Charter of Rights and Freedoms, and includes equal rights for men and women, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Nepean-Carleton (Mr. Baker):
That this House reaffirms its faith and commitment to the Canadian federal principle of compromise and consensus which has served this country well for 114 years.


Is there unanimous consent for this motion?


Agreed.


Madam Speaker, I am pleased, on behalf of our party, that the members of this House have accepted this motion in the unanimous spirit which we have just seen displayed.
We believe that it is important to serve notice that this House believes the federal principle can work. Over the last number of weeks we have seen demonstrated, despite the acrimony that has prevailed and surrounded the constitutional question, that in fact compromise, consensus and agreement can be found.


Hear, hear!


Over the past year many Canadians must have begun to wonder whether the federal system to which this House has just reaffirmed its commitment could, in fact, work. The atmosphere surrounding federal-provincial discussions was one which often appeared to be without those traditional Canadian virtues of mutual trust, moderation and compromise.
As has been said so often by our leader, the federal system can work if those of us in it want to make it work.


Hear, hear!


It is important, in view of that working ability which the federal system has again demonstrated, that we review what has in fact happened through compromise and through agreement. First, we have seen that the first ministers of Canada are willing to make the federal system work for the benefit of all Canadians. They have reached an agreement on contentious issues such as an amending formula and a Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The first ministers should be congratulated for their flexibility and also for the fact that they abandoned antagonistic stands, and made significant concessions.
What they have produced is a document which has been called typically Canadian. Certainly it was drafted within the fine Canadian tradition of compromise and consensus. A Charter of Rights and Freedoms and amending formula now reflect and represent the Canadian federation in all its diversity.
As has been mentioned, Madam Speaker, we should be able to expect in this country that diversity should not only be fostered but that it should, in fact, be encouraged.
We often say in this House that diversity is our strength. So often, on the other hand, we see legislation or approaches taken which in fact violate that very diversity. After those initial steps taken toward a new Constitution, I believe that the later additions to the accord have further demonstrated that agreement can be found. What are some of those agreements?
First, it is important to remember that Canadians were anxious that the Charter of Rights and Freedoms should apply equally to men and women. That is a position which has been unanimously adopted by this House. As well, special groups and individual Canadians applied pressure on the government and on Members of Parliament, as well as using gentle, persuasion on those who had some contacts with Members of Parliament who were to make a decision.
Canadians were also anxious that the aboriginal and treaty rights of native people should be preserved under the new Constitution, and again everyone played his or her role in trying to alter the agreement which was reached by the first ministers.
There was criticism that, by suggesting amendments, our party was in fact going to break the accord. That was never our intention or our purpose. However, it was our purpose and

November 24, 1981
our belief that the accord itself could be improved through this Parliament.
Through intergovernmental negotiation and compromise, ten Canadian governments have responded to these concerns and have now expressed their willingness to change their original agreement in order to ensure that the final constitutional accord will truly reflect Canadian society. Again the first ministers have proved that the federal system can and does work, and that they are willing to make it work for the benefit of all Canadians.
Traditional Canadian virtues of trust and moderation inherent in our federal system, of which we have spoken earlier, have now been reasserted and reconfirmed. The last 114 years have not been a failure. The last 114 years have seen the growth of a country and the inclusion of additional provinces to make it the ten we now have, and many of us have the fond hope that to those ten will be added the Northwest Territories and Yukon at some future date.
The last days have also taught us one other lesson, and that is that, in the new era of federal-provincial discussions, Canadians must be vigilant. And governments should be aware of this new vigilance on the part of Canadians and that what is going on behind closed doors cannot be left behind closed doors. Somebody mentioned yesterday that if women should ever have been in the kitchen, they should have been in the kitchen when the accord was drafted.
I say to Your Honour, and to all members of the House, that this accord should lead to a more open and tolerant view not only of our differences but also in the discussions of those differences as they lead to the accords we all seek. Given the events of the past year it is important for this House to reaffirm its commitment to the Canadian federal tradition of compromise and consensus, and I thank the House for accepting the motion.


Madam Speaker, I too would like to speak to this motion under Standing Order 43 and to thank the House for giving its unanimous consent. I applaud the ten first ministers who finally saw the light. If it had not been for the unity of women across Canada, whether they were in the kitchen or out of the kitchen, we probably would not have the inclusion of Section 28 in the charter. This has been a progression starting way back, probably with the Royal Commission on the Status of Women.
During the past weeks the minister responsible for the status of women, and all the women in this House, have worked on this in one way or another. There have been efforts put forth by provincial and federal advisory councils-


Question.


I am sorry. There are still a few seconds left. It might hurt hon. members opposite, but certain things need to be said in this debate.
The Advisory Council on the Status of Women-


Question.


Oh, oh!


Order, please. Oral Questions.


Shame!


Madam Speaker, we on this side of the House have known for many months the havoc that the government has created with the urea formaldehyde foam insulation problem. We are now seeing the magnitude of that problem. Now it is no longer just a health problem. It is no longer just a problem of corrosion and a resulting fire hazard. It is a problem which means potential economic disaster for 80,000 to 100,000 home owners who have UFFI in their homes. Therefore I have a question for the minister responsible for CMHC.
Mortgage lenders, trust companies, banks and financial institutions are refusing to guarantee mortgages to people whose homes are insulated with urea formaldehyde foam insulation. What can these home owners do?


Madam Speaker, Canada Mortage and Housing Corporation is involved in the insurance of mortgage funds, as well as the financial institutions mentioned by the hon. member. In fact CMHC is probably the major insurer of that type of funding in the private residential sector. I say to the hon. member, and to others who may have seen some press coverage earlier today, that Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation policy is not changed. It will continue to insure homes insulated with this material. There is nothing different today from what there was yesterday in the insuring operation of Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, which is the major insurer in this country.


Madam Speaker, there is absolutely no question that the minister's department and CMHC have been involved with this and that the government has been a co-conspirator in the whole UFFI mess from the beginning. In the meantime we are concerned about those people whose mortgages come up for renewal today, tomorrow, and next week. What instructions did the minister give to CMHC appraisers if they run into local buyer resistance when a mortgage is up for renewal-not when the house is up for sale but when the mortgage is up for renewal?


Madam Speaker, I guess I should repeat my answer. Possibly the hon. member did not get the significance of it. There is nothing different in the operation of CMHC as an insurer today with respect to homes that have UFFI than pertained yesterday or at any time. Nor is there any difference in the way CMHC is dealing with homes with this material or with any other home. No instructions were given to the contrary, or anything specific dealing with this substance.


Madam Speaker, just so that people will be absolutely sure, if they have installed urea formaldehyde home insulation in their homes, thanks to this government, just so they can be reassured, and before the government comes up with a decision to remove the foam and compensate people who have a problem, has the government considered guaranteeing mortgages to all home owners with UFFI and, if not, why not?


Madam Speaker, I welcome the interest of the hon. member and his party in this issue. It is unfortunate that the question was not directed to the minister responsible for the government response in this area, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, who is not here today but has been here for months, available to answer questions of hon. members opposite.


Oh, oh!


Madam Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the minister responsible for housing. He was given notice of this question and will know that the question arises today because of press reports that his department is warning its appraisers not to accept the risk of houses with UFFI insulation. That is why the question is being raised today.
It has been four years since CMHC approved UFFI under the CHIP program. It is one year since it was banned by the government. Does the government intend to provide assistance, in the form of compensation, for the 100,000 Canadian householders who have been made the lepers of the housing industry, the untouchables, because of the negligence of this government?


Obviously I would be wasting the time of the House to repeat the answer 1 have given twice to the hon. member's colleague when I indicated that there were no instructions or anything different given to CMHC officials from what pertained yesterday, no instructions that set UFFI in a different category from any other. If the hon. member did not hear that I will say it
Oral Questions
again, and I apologize to all other hon. members in the House for saying it.
Again, Madam Speaker, I guess if the hon. member cannot hear what I say today, although he has taken the opportunity of giving notice of his question, obviously he has not done any research because that question was asked before in this House. The answer is that the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs is the lead minister, the government is considering this matter, and it is close to making a decision on it. We are awaiting the decision of the special appeal board on the question of whether the government's decision to ban will stand or not. I admit it is a matter that has some long history. It is a history, Madam Speaker, by the way, that pertained at the time that his government was in power for nine months. He might reflect on the actions of his government during that period of time.


Madam Speaker, the fact is the minister is right. No instructions are forthcoming from this minister or this government, and hence 100,000 householders in this country have been hung out to dry. That is the problem.
On September 22 the minister of state from Quebec, his seat-mate, said, and I quote:
The government is not excluding the possibility of considering various types of technical and financial assistance.
That was a press release, Madam Speaker. Since last June we have been waiting for the report of the hazardous product review board.
My question to the minister is very simple and straightforward, and I ask it on behalf of these 100,000 Canadians who cannot sell their houses and now, because of his negligence, they cannot get mortgages on their houses. Given those circumstances, and given the government's culpability and responsibility, does the government intend to provide any form of compensation or financial assistance to these 100,000 unfortunate Canadians?


Madam Speaker, I would recommend that officers under your direction who are responsible for the audio provisions and audio services of this House-


Why do you not answer the question?


-check the audio available to the hon. member, because for the fourth time I have to say to him that the provisions of Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation and its policy with regard to insurance for homes that have UFFI are no different today than they were yesterday. I have to take issue with that misstatement. Perhaps the hon. member did not mean to say it, or he has not heard my answer three times previously. There is no difference in the underwriting practices of CMHC that pertain to UFFI today from what

November 24, 1981
Oral Questions
there was yesterday. Such a house is not any different from any other home that has any other insulation in it.
I guess the hon. member again has not done his research and he does not know that the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs will be reporting to the House not only on the results of the special committee that is reviewing it but on the results of 2,400 homes that have been studied, on the results of the National Research Council which is looking into it, and on the advice and expert opinion that we will be receiving from other countries. That will be before the government and the House shortly.


Madam Speaker, my question again is for the minister responsible for CMHC. The press today mentions Donald Munro as the assistant underwriting official in his department. He gave some very extensive quotes in the newspaper article about how they would not even handle these mortgages, period, but then reconsidered and asked that the matter be seriously downgraded. We are asking the minister, Madam Speaker, who is in charge over there? Obviously it is not he.
We have done our research. It has all been very carefully worked out. We have noticed that we really do now know who is in charge over there. They keep passing the buck down to health, up to consumer and corporate affairs, and over to the minister. It is really a device to obfuscate on this. My question has been put several times. You have 100,000 Canadian homes, half a million Canadians, with one of the most serious problems this country has ever faced, and the government is doing absolutely nothing. What will the minister or the government do? What is the minister prepared to do on this issue?


Madam Speaker, I am prepared to repeat my answer for the fifth time.


Oh, oh!


Madam Speaker, obviously that is an inadequate answer, and typical. There are thousands of people in the city of Vancouver and on the coast of British Columbia who have experienced this. We have turned in many petitions. People in those communities asked to meet with the Prime Minister and to meet with a senator in cabinet responsible for that, and they have been clearly turned down. Will the minister explain why officials in cabinet or in government are not prepared to meet with people who are experiencing the problem?


Madam Speaker, many members on this side-and as the hon. member says on the other side-have received representations, not only
from industry but from home owners, from one side of the country to the other. I assure the hon. member that there are dozens of members, including myself, who have made submissions, to the members who are on the committee with the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.


Madam Speaker, the minister who occupies the seat beside the minister responsible for CMHC, again as it was pointed out, made certain statements about government commitments, financial and otherwise. This is a serious health problem. The government has ripped off the equity of many Canadians. Could the minister basically tell the House what was the background, or for what reason did he make these commitments to people that there would be financial assistance to Canadians who suffered from this problem?


Madam Speaker, the hon. member began his questioning by saying that he had done his research. Obviously he has not researched that question, it having been asked earlier in the session, nor did he research the answer which was given.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. The minister probably knows that the Shoe Manufacturers' Association of Canada announced that since September, 1981, 2,800 workers have lost their jobs in this industry. In view of the minister's statement this morning concerning the new policy for the next three years, and assuming that the minister has had his new policy carefully researched, could the minister tell the House how many workers, out of the 2,800 who lost their jobs, will be able to get their jobs back in the footwear industry, considering the projections made in his statement this morning?


Madam Speaker, I believe that many of these lay-offs have occurred because the Canadian footwear market is soft, and not only as a result of the pressure created by imports. However, in the policy announced today, we have introduced a quota system that will apply to all imports of non-leather footwear. This would prevent the present pressure from increasing at the same rate, and I feel that with this quota system and the modernization plan I have announced, the situation for employees in this important industry will improve; I hope that will be the case.
November 24, 1981


Madam Speaker, 1 am truly appalled by the minister's reply; in fact he was absolutely unable to tell us how many of these 2,800 workers, who are in the same circumstances as so many others who were laid off temporarily during the last few months, will be able to get their jobs back in that industry, in view of his new policy. From the proposals the minister made in his statement, it is clear that a number of these employees will not be able to go back to jobs in the footwear industry. It is important that Canadians should know the facts. I shall ask my question again. Could the minister tell the House-in fact 1 think he could-what percentage of the 2,800 workers will be able to get jobs again in the footwear industry, and how does he expect us to believe there is a possibility, when imports this year will take about 60 per cent of the market, which is exactly what caused lay-offs in the first place, also considering last year's rate of 61 per cent.


Madam Speaker, the policy we announced this morning follows the broad outlines of a report prepared by the Anti-Dumping Tribunal. It is something the footwear industry has wanted for some time. In my opinion, Madam Speaker, the quota system we announced today, especially since it applies to non-leather footwear, will somewhat relieve the pressure on our industry in the non-leather footwear sector, because most of these lay-offs are occurring in that sector. That is why I feel the quota system could improve the situation.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce who gave the footwear manufacturers their final breakfast today when he announced the lifting of the quota covering leather footwear, and establishing a global quota on all non-leather footwear and canvas footwear much higher than is being imported at present. Why would the minister give another Canadian industry, at a time when we see all kinds of lay-offs, a kick in the teeth with a frozen boot just when it was getting back on its feet? This means that 15,000 jobs will be affected by the policy that the minister announced today. Why would he announce the lifting of a quota at a time when jobs need to be preserved in Canada instead of the industry being faced with lay-offs?


Madam Speaker, we announced today a balanced program with two basic elements. The first is a substantial program with a budget of $17 million to assist in the modernization and the restructuring of that industry to help preserve jobs and strengthen job opportunities. This program will be administered by the Canadian Industrial Renewal Board. In order that this program has an opportunity to work, we also announced a new program involving global quotas on imports from all countries of shoes which are manufactured with a
Presence in Gallery
covering other than leather. We have included something in that quota that the industry asked for, and that is shoes made of canvas. That was not covered in the original quota system. It is not correct to say that we have set a base figure higher than the existing one, because the existing one does not cover canvas footwear.
In announcing the program today we were responding to the broad lines of the report of the Anti-Dumping Tribunal which said that our industry is now in a position to meet competition from developed countries, including state trading countries. These are the main source of imports of leather footwear. We are following the recommendations of this major report which received the enthusiastic support of many members opposite. In addition to that, we are putting in place the major program to assist in the modernization and strengthening of the Canadian footwear industry.


Madam Speaker, that program is going to help Mitsubishi which has 125 employees in Canada and is the forty-ninth largest company in Canada, with sales of $1.25 billion. Mr. Ted Rowe, chairman of the Canadian Shoe Manufacturers Association, has stated that it is a "$17 million sham." If the minister thinks this is going to create jobs, why is he giving money to communities to diversify because of the effect of this policy, and also providing early retirement benefits to affected workers with lengthy work records in the industry?


Give them a gold watch and a pair of shoes!


Madam Speaker, we are putting forward a modernization program to strengthen job opportunities through having a more efficient and up-to-date industry. To the extent that there are companies not able to modernize, I am sure my hon. friend would want us to work to ensure alternative job opportunities. I gather from what my hon. friend says that he would prefer people to be out of work. That is not our position.


Shame!


I should like to draw the attention of the House to the distinguished presence in our gallery of Mr. Lengema Dulia Yubassa Makanga, Vice-Prime Minister and Secretary of State for International Co-operation of Zaire.


Hear, hear!

November 24, 1981
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, it has always been a position of the federal New Democratic Party to support the Crow rate. My question is to the Minister of Transport. I understand that at a recent meeting of the Manitoba Wheat Pool Elevators he announced that a bill will be coming before Parliament shortly to change the Crow rate. In light of the statement the Prime Minister made earlier this year in the House that there would be no change in the Crow rate until there was consensus in western Canada, and now that the province of Saskatchewan and also the province of Manitoba support retention of the Crow rate, what is the government's position with regard to the Crow rate at this time?


Madam Speaker, I answered a question on the same subject last week at which time I indicated that, following the budget which assigns $1.3 billion to western transportation, the government was going to decide on which way to spend it. I said the other day that there were two broad possible approaches. One was a comprehensive approach which would include the Crow rate modernization, and the other was a special project approach. This debate is before cabinet now and I will advise my hon. friend when a decision is made.


Madam Speaker, I understand that there is a rally in Regina today in support of the Crow rate. The minister in charge of the Wheat Board, who has been a great advocate of retention of the Crow rate, was supposed to have been addressing that rally in Regina at this very hour. From a phone call to his office I have found out that he is not at that meeting in Regina but is in his office in Ottawa. I would ask the minister, if he has not already made a decision on the Crow rate and if he does not have his tail tucked between his legs here in Ottawa, eating Crow, when that decision will be made.


Madam Speaker, both the Minister of State responsible for the Canadian Wheat Board and myself are due to address the Saskatchewan Wheat Pool in the coming days. I think he does so tomorrow and I do so on Thursday. Both of us will have ample opportunity to express our views on that subject at this time.
But there is one thing about which both of us agree enthusiastically and strongly, and that is that measures have to be taken now to make sure that western Canada will have the best possible transportation system. That means enhancing very substantially the main line capacity of that railway system. That will be done.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Justice, whom I wish to congratulate on the agreement reached on equality of women and aboriginal rights. Starting today and during the next few days, the Quebec National Assembly will be debating an important resolution containing basic principles for the future of Canada, that is, the principle of Canadian duality and special status for Quebec. Although he is not now considering this resolution, is the minister prepared to give the House the assurance that the constitutional process will not end once the resolution has been passed here in Ottawa, and second, that the contents and the basic principles of this resolution will be discussed at a future constitutional conference?


Madam Speaker, I can assure the hon. member that the constitutional process will not end after the vote to be held shortly on the resolution. This is the first stage in developing a new constitution for Canadians. There will be other conferences. In fact, one is to be held some time during the next few months, in order to discuss, with the provinces, how yesterday's agreement on aboriginal rights is to be implemented. There will be further stages in the discussion on the Constitution and obviously, if the Government of Quebec wishes to continue the debate in order to amend more specifically the three elements with which it cannot agree at this time, we are always prepared to discuss these issues. I regret it has not been possible to have discussions on this matter during the last two or three weeks, because according to my information at this time, the provinces would have been prepared to consider various amendments that might have been satifactory to the government of Quebec. But in any case, I can give the hon. member the assurance that we are prepared to make changes later, since then we will finally have the Constitution here in Canada, with a mechanism for amending the Constitution in Canada, without going through the British Parliament. Therefore if the government of the province of Quebec does not make a decision within the next few days, the door will still be open and attempts to improve the situation can still be made. I am sure that the other provinces will be willing to consider any reasonable proposals.
November 24, 1981


Madam Speaker, Bill C-43, the access to information bill, a government bill which has been accepted in principle by this House, would restrict ministers of the Crown from denying public access to certain documents. Contrary to the spirit and the terms of that bill, an affidavit which has been executed by the Solicitor General and which was presented to a Montreal court this morning, prevents the production of 33 documents required for the defence of 17 RCMP officers who have been charged with various criminal offences.
My question to the Solicitor General is simply this: when this trial relates to events which occurred over ten years ago, what possible harm-except, perhaps, to the political credibility and embarrassment of some who are still here-would occur if these documents were used in court as a defence for those who are charged?


Hear, hear!


Madam Speaker, all of the documents in question, which were the subject of my certificate this morning, are documents to which the McDonald commission had full access in its work. The McDonald commission made public certain portions of those documents and recommended that other portions not be made public. I followed exactly that recommendation and, of course, have not withheld any documents which were made public in that process. However, I would remind the hon. member that the McDonald commission made a decision very recently concerning matters of national security and cabinet confidence. The decisions which they made are simply expressed in the certificate that I signed this morning.


Hear, hear!


I remind the Solicitor General that none of these documents have been produced by the government as of yet, and none have been produced in that Montreal court case. Second, of course, we are not dealing with the judgment of the McDonald commission. We are dealing with the liberty of individuals who are charged with a criminal offence.


My supplementary question is directed to the Solicitor General. Because the taxpayers of this country are footing the bill for the government lawyers who are objecting to the release of this documentation and, at the same time, because public funds are being used in the defence of these officers who want to produce these very same documents, does it make sense that the
Oral Questions
taxpayers are paying for both of these contradictory arguments?


Madam Speaker, I hope the hon. member is not suggesting that the Mounties should not be provided with defence at public expense, because I think they should.


No; I am saying call off those objecting.


Produce the documents.


The hon. member knows, or should know, from the office that he held in the previous administration, that there were matters before the McDonald commission and documents produced to the McDonald commission which were not appropriate to be made public. The McDonald commission did examine those, and hon. members are aware of the findings which were made on the basis of that very full examination. The subject of my certificate is simply an implementation, an acceptance of the classification and declassification decisions which were recommended by that commission.


Hear, hear!


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. I would like to ask the minister whether he could confirm that he intends to meet soon with the minister of transport of Ontario to finalize arrangements because of the dual purpose of the Toronto-Havelock line, the VIA portion of which was cancelled, and that, because of the dual nature of that line, there will be an arrangement for joint financing of that line so that this line can continue.


Madam Speaker, I would like to remind the House of what was said. It was said that some commuter-type routes might be taken over by the provinces. We assigned a longer period of time to make this possible. On a number of occasions, privately and quite publicly, Mr. Snow has expressed the wish, which I find to be very logical, that the federal government should give to the provinces the same kind of financial status that the federal government has by way of VIA, in operating these lines at present. That is a reference to costing order 63-13 of the CTC. In recent days CNR has offered that regime to the city of Montreal in the province of Quebec with respect to the operating of commuter type lines in Montreal. I am not sure about the CP, but the CN would surely be quite willing to offer the same advantage to the province of Ontario should it decide to operate those three-Stouffville, Barrie and Havelock-in the Toronto area.

November 24, 1981
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, I thank the minister for the answer, as far as it went. But surely if there are circumstances which define the Havelock-Toronto line as unique because of being intercity or commuter, the same reasoning could apply to other parts of the VIA Rail service which were cut out, such as the Atlantic, which is interprovincial and/or commuter and/or out of Edmonton, which is the only way to get to the coast. If help is being offered to the Havelock-Toronto situation, with funding from the federal government, surely the minister will offer the same help to other portions of the VIA Rail service which have been eliminated at the moment. Would he confirm that he would?


Madam Speaker, the situation to which the hon. member refers is not the situation existing in the Toronto area or, for that matter, in the Montreal area. The situations there essentially involve routes which were previously inter-city and which, de facto, because of growth of metropolitan areas, have become commuter type routes. That situation is entirely different, and that is why the treatment of it is quite different too.
In the first case we proceeded to elimination and reduction right away. In the second, we gave ourselves a longer period of time in order to discuss the matter with the provinces. However, I believe that agreement will be reached. It may be that the Havelock route will not be completely maintained, but some of it will be maintained because it has a commuter type of operation.
 * *


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Communications. In view of the uncertainty in many areas of northern Canada as to the legal status of receiving signals from United States TV satellites, can the minister clarify the arrangement which will apply to communities receiving TV from the CanCom satellite? Will these local cable TV systems in northern Ontario and in other parts of northern Canada receiving the CanCom signal be permitted to receive signals from the U.S. TV satellites as well?


Madam Speaker, as the hon. member points out, during the course of the past year we have proceeded with the extension of services to every part of Canada and delivery via satellite. The answer to his question is that the CanCom licensees are authorized to receive the signals that the CRTC has authorized them to receive.
Concerning the wider question of access to U.S. programming, I believe it is, indeed, in the interests of all Canadians that we come to some situation where there is an equalization of viewing opportunities across the country. We are presently
looking into the matter within the Department of Communications.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State responsible for small businesses. Since the Liberal government budget of November 12, the Royal Bank of Canada, the Bank of Nova Scotia and the Toronto-Dominion Bank have ceased to accept applications under the Small Business Development Bond. I am sure that the minister is aware of this. Could the minister explain to the House what incentives there are for the banks to loan money to small businesses in financial difficulty?


Madam Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his question because it gives me the opportunity to clarify that the chartered banks, as mentioned by the hon. member, have indeed indicated to their various branches that they would impose a temporary moratorium on the implementation of the program in order to consolidate their criteria, as there are changes in the program. A meeting will be held early next week between the officials of Revenue Canada, Finance and the Small Business Secretariat in order to redefine the criteria of the new program as announced by the Minister of Finance, and by the end of November all chartered banks should be implementing it.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the same minister. If, after the meeting, the criterion which is established does not satisfy the lending institutions or does not give the required incentive to the lending institutions, is the minister for small businesses prepared to make representation to the Minister of Finance to change the budget so that it will, indeed, help small business as the Small Business Development Bond was intended to do in the first place?


Madam Speaker, I think there is a hypothetical aspect to this question. I want to indicate to the hon. member that instead of pressuring the Minister of Finance into changing his budget, it is the banks that should be pressured, if they refuse to implement this program. But all the information that I now have indicates that-if I could finish my answer, Madam Speaker, perhaps, members would understand the situation better-as I was saying all the infor-
November 24, 1981

mation I have received from the banking community and the financial institutions indicates that they are in agreement.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare who, I understand, has now come into the House, and it concerns a recent report by the Ontario Status of Women Council which found that nearly half of all female senior citizens scrape by on a yearly income of less than $5,000 a year. Members on all sides of the House know that many women at this very moment are going hungry. Will the minister take immediate action to relieve this reprehensible situation by increasing pension benefits so that all senior citizens are guaranteed incomes above the poverty line?


Madam Speaker, I would like to confirm that we did request funds as a first priority of the government as soon as the economy is a little better, because we are talking about a sum of $730 million to bring single pensioners, most of them being women, just above the poverty line. Of course nothing prevents the provincial government of Ontario from adding a "top-up" immediately to help the particular situation that the Council defined as one of great concern to all of us.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is addressed to the same minister. As the minister is aware, part of the reason older women are poor is that as homemakers they accrue no pension benefits in their own right. Now that the minister's surveys have shown that most women who work at home cannot pay into the CPP, what measures is she prepared to take to ensure that women at home raising children will be able to accrue their own pension benefits?


Madam Speaker, I can suggest to the hon. member what I will be most probably proposing, but I would have liked to hear what his party is proposing. I am still looking for some text on that. The only idea we have received in about ten years, since the report of the Royal Commission on the Status of Women has been published, is that the Canada Pension Plan should be opened up, either on a voluntary basis or in a compulsory fashion, to all women at home, so-called housewives, for contribution. They would make them in a way similar to a self-employed person. The reason this was not done earlier is, of course, because that would amount to some $30 or more a month, and women in the lowest income
Oral Questions
bracket, those most in need, would not have that money available.
I have finally accepted the idea to push, promote and discuss with women the options by which a majority of middle-class housewives could contribute, using a different means to help those with the lowest incomes.


Madam Speaker, I have a supplementary to the question asked by the hon. member for Jonquiere, also directed to the Minister of Justice. If I understand correctly, the minister said that the constitutional debate does not end now and that new developments will be possible at a future stage. I should like the Minister of Justice to explain two things to me and to the Canadian people. First, how can he guarantee the Canadian duality to which he refers, and second, with the proposed amending formula which requires the consent of seven provinces and 50 per cent of the Canadian population, how can he explain to francophones outside Quebec that at the present time, three provinces will guarantee the rights of francophone Canadians across Canada, but that in seven provinces they will be restricted as to their legal and legislative rights?


The answer is very simple, Madam Speaker. First of all, to everyone's surprise, the nine English-speaking provinces agreed to protect the education rights of francophones outside Quebec, which is a tremendous achievement and one which has given me great cause for rejoicing. There is still the matter of the courts and the proceedings in the legislatures. The Constitution of 1867 already provides for the use of both languages in the courts and legislatures in two cases, and this year we have made some progress because the government of New Brunswick has committed itself even further under Section 133, which provides francophones with better guarantees than those enjoyed by anglophones in Quebec. I do agree that it is unfortunate that Ontario has not decided to make French one of the languages used in the courts and in the Ontario legislature. However, in our charter and in our constitutional resolution, we have provided for a mechanism that will enable the provinces to make such changes through bilateral agreements, and I would ask the provinces to consider such action as soon as possible. In any case, we have made considerable progress by entrenching in the Constitution, here and now, that the Parliament of Canada and federal institutions shall always be bilingual.

November 24, 1981
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Veterans Affairs. The Standing Committee on Public Accounts yesterday tabled its report on the Auditor General's audit of the Department of Veterans Affairs. That report made a number of very incriminating condemnations of the serious ongoing problems within the department. The report calls on the government to make legislative changes to the present antiquated and archaic legislation so veterans would have their pensions processed within 180 days instead of the present four to five years. Will the minister assure this House that he will co-operate with the Pension Commission in drafting the new veterans affairs legislation as recommended by the Auditor General, the Public Accounts Committee, and the Conservative Party?


Madam Speaker, the hon. member is well aware that the administrative and adjudicative processes of the Pension Commission are now being reviewed. I can tell him that the new chairman of the commission has already undertaken a massive reorganization of the commission and we have seen fairly rapid results in that the backlog has now been reduced by over 500 in a little over a month, and it has also reduced the time period for phasing. Until such time as I can satisfy myself that it is necessary to introduce new legislation, I would like to have the review process completed prior to indicating to the House a commitment on that basis.


Madam
Speaker, the former chairman of the Pension Commission has said he was hamstrung by the present legislation and could not process the pensions any faster. The Public Accounts Committee has asked the Pension Commission to report before the committee prior to the end of March next year with a full recommendation on what type of legislation should be drafted, so we no longer will have this four to five-year processing period. Is the minister saying he will not comply with the Public Accounts Committee wish that the commission have this all completed by the end of March?


No, Madam Speaker, that is not what I am saying. What I am saying is that the review process is now going on. I anticipate receiving reports from Mr. McCracken within a month to a month and a half. Also, the commission itself is reviewing the recommendations of the Public Accounts Committee and will be responding within the established guidelines.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. Recently the Harbour Castle Hotel in Toronto, Campeau property, was sold to wealthy Hong Kong interests, more particularly interests controlled by Mr. Canning Fok. Will the minister advise the House how long it took to obtain FIRA approval for this action?


Madam Speaker, 1 think it is well known that there are confidentiality requirements in the law-


Oh, oh!


-regarding the administration of FIRA. I can assure my hon. friend that the full process was followed and the decision that was announced about the transaction involved significant benefit for Canada, as stated in the relevant press release.


Would the minister tell the House what the average time is to gain approval through FIRA, because I can assure him that this approval only took a fraction of the average?


Well, Madam Speaker, the time does vary, but I know-


Oh, oh!


-at least 50 per cent of the applications to FIRA are dealt with in three weeks or less.
* * #


Madam Speaker, I rise on a point of order concerning House business. My question is directed to the government House leader. We had discussions this morning which led to the arrangements that are being made for today. I am asking him to confirm those arrangements.
As I understand it, the member for Vaudreuil who now has the floor will be concluding his remarks. Next will be the member for Kingston and the Islands, who informs me that her contribution will take approximately 15 minutes. She will then be followed by one speaker from the New Democratic Party, immediately following which we will have a recorded division and, following the division, presumably the Minister of Justice or another minister of the Crown will introduce a
November 24, 1981

motion with respect to the restoration of aboriginal rights in the resolution.
I would ask the government House leader to confirm my understanding of those arrangements and, while doing so, perhaps he might indicate what the business will be for the remainder of the week.


The statement made by the hon. member for Yukon is almost perfect. Indeed there will be a recorded vote if required. As I understand it, after the hon. member for the riding of Jewett has spoken on the amendment concerning women, Mr. Speaker will put the question to the House and if all members agree there will be no recorded vote. If, however, as indicated by the hon. member for Yukon, the Progressive Conservatives ask for a recorded vote, of course we will be here to vote and support the motion of the Leader of the Opposition in that respect. As for the rest, the statement of the hon. member for Yukon reflects the agreement we reached this morning.
As to the House business for tomorrow, contrary to what I announced last Friday, we will go on with the constitutional debate so as to enable more members to express their views and, consequently, the fifth day of the budget debate is postponed until Friday this week.


I did not hear the government House leader specifically delineate that the Constitution would be continued on Wednesday and on Thursday and that we would move on to the fifth day of the budget debate on Friday. Is that correct?


We simply cannot hide anything from the hon. member. That is exactly what I have just said, and I am sure the hon. member for New Westminster-Coquitlam will forgive me for failing to remember the name of her riding, something which is very important.


Madam Speaker, I just want to make one minor correction. The House business as set out by both the House leader for the official opposition and the President of the Privy Council is correct. I know the House would be delighted to again hear the words of wisdom of the member for New Westminster-Coquitlam, whose knowledge of women's affairs is undoubtedly unparalleled. However, she spoke yesterday and we think that perhaps we will have the member for Vancouver East speak today.
[ Translation]


Madam Speaker, we fully agree that the hon. member for Vancouver East be allowed to express her views today, and that was the object of the agreement we have reached.
Order Paper Questions


Madam Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 41(2), it is my pleasure to table in both official languages a copy of the Agreement on Social Security, that is to say on pension reciprocity, between the Government of Canada and the government of the United States.


Madam Speaker, I have the duty and responsibility to present a petition on behalf of my constituents as a method of expressing through direct representation the anger and frustration that they feel at the prospect of losing their homes. The purpose of this petition, signed by another 324 citizens of the Vancouver lower mainland, is to indicate that in spite of the budget, in spite of climbing interest rates, banks are still floating 18 per cent to 18'/. per cent mortgage interest rates. The purpose remains, therefore, substantially the same, as these petitioners, along with thousands of other Canadians, find themselves day by day, more and more in dire straits.
The nature of this petition is to demand that the government lower interest rates and allow mortgage interest rates to become tax deductible. These petitioners realize that the vac