Madam Speaker, the restaurant and food service industry has become a large and dynamic sector of the Canadian economy with sales of $15 billion, or 4.5 per cent of Canada's GNP, and 600,000 employees, or 5.7 per cent of the national labour force. In addition, it earned $1 billion in foreign exchange last year from visiting tourists.
In 1982, a recession year, employment in the food service industry actually increased by 2,000 jobs. When one considers the unemployment situation in Canada, surely the service industries are part of the solution, and the largest sector, the food service industry, deserves encouragement for job creation and business growth.
At present the industry lacks the schools and standards necessary to educate the skilled technicians who make this industry grow. Our colleges graduate good cooks but not world-class chefs.
This shortage of skilled trades is becoming a major bottleneck in the expansion of this industry, and it is an area where the Government can help by upgrading training facilities and by designating some of the food service trades as national occupations under the National Training Act.
In addition, consideration must also be given to revising the tax system to stimulate these labour intensive industries.


Madam Speaker, there is no shortage of work to be done in Canada. As well, there is no shortage of willing labour. All that is required is the funding and organization. 1 believe these are some of the reasons we have a Department of Employment and Immigration. I would like to suggest to the Minister of Employment and Immigration (Mr. Axworthy) that plans exist for many long term projects involving conservation and improvement of transportation facilities which would keep many people employed for a long time.
In my constituency of Erie two such projects have been on the drawing board for many, many months. These are very worth-while endeavours involving flood control in the City of Port Colborne, and modifications to the old Welland Canal to accommodate mooring of ships. The total cost of these two projects is roughly $9 million.
If the current administration were willing to sponsor either or both of these projects, which would cost but a small fraction of the $1.5 billion bailout of Canadair, the benefits to the environment and the local economy would be tremendous. Federal funding would be put to good use in assisting with these projects, especially in light of the fact that over $5 million was granted in the neighbouring constituency for creating parks and doing landscaping.


Madam Speaker, I rise today to bring to the attention of the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) and his Government 1,500 letters individually signed by residents of the Prince Albert area, who ask for Crow rate retention. These letters, which are addressed to the Prime Minister, were gathered by the Prince Albert Chamber of Commerce and reflect broad based public opinion which continues to support retention of the Crow rate.
These 1,500 letters, together with 3,400 petition signatures and 2,100 signed endorsements of the New Democratic Party's Crow retention policy, add up to an extremely significant statement of public opinion. I will send these letters across to the Prime Minister and I ask him to answer my written question involving public representation of the Crow retention.
A similar question to the Minister of Transport (Mr. Pepin) produced 38,713 signatures favouring Crow retention, and only 69 for Crow change. That is a 99.8 per cent vote in favour of Crow retention. This kind of public response clearly demonstrates why New Democrats continue to oppose Bill C-155 and propose an alternative policy which will upgrade the railways and keep the Crow rate for western farmers. We want to ensure that western voices are heard by the committee on transport, and we urge that the committee travel throughout the West in its examination of Bill C-155. I have those letters here in my hand, Madam Speaker.


Hear, hear!

June 23, 1983


Madam Speaker, some two weeks ago I made representation to the Minister of Transport (Mr. Pepin) with regard to the possibility of having a partial or complete ban on smoking in all aircraft whose flights originate in Canada. My colleagues will be interested to know that since that time I have received over 150 letters. Just this morning I received support for that proposal from one group which spoke for 34,000 Canadians.
1 realized that my colleague, the Member of Parliament for Restigouche (Mr. Harquail), asked a question yesterday. I believe the Hon. Member for Hamilton-Wentworth (Mr. Scott) also brought this to our attention. The purpose of my statement is to encourage Hon. Members, and to say that if they are also getting this kind of response for a ban such as this, perhaps we should be moving to institute such a ban, in view of the fact that it is for the safety of Canadians in the first instance, while also adding to the comfort of people who are travelling. 1 encourage those who hear me to write to me, to my colleague from Restigouche, or to the Hon. Member for Hamilton-Wentworth. Together we will try to determine if we can get this instituted into law on flights originating in Canada, on behalf of all the people of Canada.


Madam Speaker, according to our rules the House does not sit tomorrow as we celebrate St. Jean Baptiste day to honour one of the two founding peoples of Canada.
I wish to bring to the attention of the House the fact that tomorrow is also an important holiday for Newfoundland. June 24 is Discovery Day in Newfoundland, and it is especially significant this year as Newfoundland celebrates its four hundredth anniversary.
On August 5, 1583, Sir Humphrey Gilbert read a proclamation in St. John's, which was then a settled community, formally claiming sovereignty in the name of Queen Elizabeth I, and thereby establishing Britain's first colony. Today, her direct descendant, Prince Charles, and the Princess of Wales, are in St. John's to inaugurate the four hundredth anniversary celebrations officially.
1 am pleased to bring this national historic event to the attention of the House in the absence of my colleagues from St. John's East and St. John's West who are in St. John's to participate in the official ceremonies. I am sure all Hon. Members will want to join me in saluting the proud people of Newfoundland on the occasion of their four hundredth anniversary.


Hear, hear!


Madam Speaker, recently a commentator on CKVU-TV in Vancouver topped his own reputation for promoting poisonous prejudice by stating, "It is my hope that Media Watch and its army of snoops will be found in the front lines where they can be raped by the Russians." I am sure that all Hon. Members of Parliament abhor such an obscene statement from a professional broadcaster on a station which is licensed by the CRTC.
Media Watch is dedicated to informing the public on issues surrounding the portrayal of women in the media and the detrimental effects of sex role stereotyping and pornography. This incident shows the need for such a service.
CKVU-TV, by refusing to apologize or demand a retraction from its commentator, has condoned hatred and violence against women generally. Media Watch appropriately refused an opportunity to rebut on CKVU because "the question of whether or not women should be raped by an invading army is not debatable."
As in the case of First Choice Pay TV, the CKVU incident makes a mockery of the unenforceable human rights policy of the Canadian Association of Broadcasters. Since the broadcasting industry is not policing itself, legislative action is imperative. I urge the Government and the House to give priority to the Private Members' Bill proposed by the Hon. Member for Broadview-Greenwood (Ms. McDonald), which would amend the Broadcasting Act to prohibit such abusive comments.


Order.


Madam Speaker, almost all Members of the House will be aware of the important work of the Block Parent Program. From its humble beginnings in London, Ontario, in the Fall of 1968, the Block Parent Program has grown to the point where it now encompasses 800 plus communities of all sizes. There are Block Parent communities in all ten Provinces and in both Territories. All of the 800 plus Block Parent communities in the national Block Parent Program use the same national symbol and house sign, thus enabling children to move from one coast of Canada to the other and still find their sign of safety, the national Block Parent house sign, in windows of houses in their new communities.
The Block Parent Program has provided a service of untold value to lost or frigthened children and their families throughout Canada. However, there is some concern that national Block Parent communication needs to be strengthened through a national advisory committee and the opportunity for Block
June 23, 1983

Parent organizations from the various regions of Canada to meet face to face in personal dialogue. Toward that end a national Block Parent advisory committee meeting has been proposed for October of this year. The cost of such a meeting would be $7,000, a small price for a meeting of such an important national organization, but one which its voluntary members will find difficult to raise. In the interest of preserving the national Block Parent Program and its important work, I would hope that the federal Government, perhaps through the Solicitor General's Department, can provide some financial assistance to bring a national meeting to fruition.


Madam Speaker, yesterday the President of the Treasury Board and the Minister of Justice held a joint press conference at which they announced the dawn of a new day for openness of government. I would like to give the President of the Treasury Board the opportunity to demonstrate his seriousness when he talks about access to information. Will the President of the Treasury Board undertake to table in Parliament a copy of the Anderson Report on Consolidated Computers, which chronicled how that Minister presided over the $125 million loss on Consolidated Computers?


Madam Speaker, 1 will have to check into the status of the document and see whether it is a cabinet document-


Oh, oh!


I will be delighted to get back to my hon. friend on this.


Madam Speaker, if the Minister has a hard time finding it, I will give him my copy.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary is directed to the Minister of State for Multiculturalism who, last week, in response to a question I put on the legality of his proposals for the newspaper industry, replied, "As to constitutionality, the advice of the Department
Oral Questions
of Justice ... ", which I take is the Minister, " ... is that our proposal will be quite within the constitutional parameters." In keeping with the spirit of freedom of information, will the Minister table all materials he has received from the Department of Justice, or other Departments, with respect to the constitutionality of his proposals?


Madam Speaker, I expect when this legislation does come forward, is tabled in the House and reaches debate, that that discussion can be held in committee. Surely that is the more proper procedure.


Oh, oh!


I do not understand how that is hiding anything, if we are prepared to follow the proper course in public debate and discussion. I do not know why, ahead of the event, Hon. Members would imply that. I am not trying to conceal anything. I feel that is why we have these officials, to give us advice. Their advice is that it is legal.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. In keeping with the spirit of the new Access to Information Act, will the Government now be providing answers to the 412 unanswered questions placed on the Order Paper since the beginning of the Thirty-Second Parliament by the former Hon. Member for Leeds-Grenville?


Hear, hear!


Or is the Government still afraid to expose itself to the complete public scrutiny for which the Act provides?


Madam Speaker, since this session commenced we have answered 4,151 questions on the Order Paper, which represents 82.9 per cent. I can assure the Hon. Member that the former Hon. Member for Leeds-Grenville was, in fact, the person who had more questions answered than anyone else. We are continuing to answer those questions standing in his name as I am provided with the answers by the various Ministers.


The questions are being answered very slowly, Madam Speaker. It is obvious that the Government only intends to pay lip service to the new freedom of information act.


Hear, hear!

June 23, 1983
26714_______________________________________
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Transport. Question No. 30, which has been on the Order Paper for over seven years, asks for the names of all those individuals who hold free Air Canada passes. This question still remains unanswered. Is the Minister now prepared to give us a specific date when he will provide the information requested? Or does the Minister not intend to answer that question?


Madam Speaker, I will try to do better in the future than I have in the past.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. I would like to congratulate him for being so elegantly dressed today in his blue conservative jacket. His recovery is obviously well under way.
A group of Members of Parliament met recently with some Canadian and American Congressmen and Senators. We were told that the Americans were not going to get their deficit down and that all the Congressmen had other priorities, the Democrats with social programs, the Republicans with defence programs, and that there would be no compromise. Therefore the American deficit would continue and we would have upcoming high interest rates. This is a very serious matter for the Canadian economy. Would the Minister tell the House what steps he recommended to Cabinet, or he is prepared to take, to prepare against this eventuality, that is, to make our interest rates independent of American ones? Is he now prepared to bring down Canadian interest rates so that we will have some real sustained recovery as we all want?


Madam Speaker, I will not pass any comment on the blue shirt worn by my colleague, but I will address the more serious aspect of his question.
I should like to remind him that today interest rates on Treasury bills and on Government bonds extending up to seven years are lower than American rates. My hon. friend remembers that over the last two years there were times when Canadian rates were up to 5 per cent and 6 per cent above American rates. We have pursued a very appropriate monetary and fiscal policy. We are seeing the very beneficial effects of that policy at the present time in terms of lower inflation, a high rate of growth, and interest rates that are now even lower
than the American ones. All of this is taking place while we enjoy a stable dollar.
I think the policies the Government has followed in the last year and a half have certainly been appropriate for the situation I hope that for the rest of this year and also in 1984 the Canadian people will reap the benefits of all the sacrifices which all of us have been asked to carry in the last year.


Madam Speaker, as a supplementary question let me ask the Minister about the benefits people are reaping. Supposedly we have a recovery, about which the Minister has been crowing in the House of Commons. Would he agree that we have high rates of unemployment, that he has been going around the country attacking consumers because his budget will put a lot of taxes on them later, and that he has been attacking labour, because he is now speaking of wage controls?
I would like to know what are the Minister's policies. Will we face another six and five, say a four and three program? What does the Minister mean when he attacks labour, and wage increases? What will he do to lower the rate of unemployment? We cannot have a recovery if we still have so many unemployed people in the country. This is a profits recovery, not a people recovery.


Madam Speaker, my hon. colleague has some very strange information sources. I would remind him that not only were we successful in bringing down inflation to 5.4 per cent this May, compared to last year, but since 1982, we have also managed to create about 330,000 new or additional jobs in Canada. Employment has been rising regularly and consistently during the last six months, and during the last two, we were able to bring the unemployment rate down from 12.8 percent to 12.4 per cent. The unemployment rate is still very high, too high, and we must keep on trying to bring unemployment down. In any case, we shall be successful in doing so if we bring down inflation, which will keep our interest rates at a fairly low level, and our prices competitive on world markets. When I criticized certain wage settlements, one in particular, I was not criticizing the workers or union leaders specifically. I merely said that employers and workers, or rather their union leaders, has not acted responsibly.
I am happy to see that at the present time, collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated in a very responsible manner, since the average wage settlement amounts to about 6.5 per cent in the private sector, if we exclude the construction industry. However, we shall have to try and avoid situations in the construction industry that would touch off another inflationary spiral, which would affect the workers themselves first of all.


Order, order!
June 23, 1983


Madam Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Employment and Immigration I will direct my question to the Minister of Finance because it involves priority in the allocation of funds to employment programs.
The Government has a program called PED for the employable disadvantaged people. Fundamentally it is a wage subsidy program to subsidize the wages of people who would be otherwise on welfare, or prisoners coming out of prison as they get jobs in the private sector. The Program works providing employment-


Order, please. 1 wonder if the Hon. Member is conscious that he is describing a Program which all Members know. He should go directly to his question. We do not need that.


I am glad that all Members are aware of the Program. I will get straight to the question. Why is the Government putting this Program in the deep freeze for the summer? The funds are exhausted. Summer is the high point for this Program. Why not put additional funds into it, as this Program is working for the disadvantaged, rather than leaving them out to dry with no money to keep the Program working?


Madam Speaker, I thank the Hon. Member for the promotion which he is giving to that Program and, I hope, other Government programs in the area of employment as well. I am glad to see the NDP supporting all of our efforts in the area of employment creation.


Oh, oh!


Some Members are not supporting our efforts at creating jobs, but at least one NDP Member is reasonable and has the proper appreciation of what is taking place. I want to indicate to the Hon. Member that I appreciate his support for that Program. 1 will examine, with my colleague, the Minister of Employment and Immigration, whether it is true that the funds are exhausted and whether the Program will be able to expand during the course of the summer. I am sure the Minister will want to examine this situation very carefully.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. It arises out of recent events with respect to Cast, the possible loss of 400 or 500 jobs, and the possibility of the creation of 7,000,
Oral Questions
8,000 or 9,000 new jobs in Canada. Has the Minister been briefed by Dr. Maurice LeClair, the President of Canadian National Railways, any of their officials, or any of his officials, with respect to the winding down of the operations of EuroCanadian Shipholding Limited? If so, with respect to those briefings, has he contemplated any further action?


Madam Speaker, I had the same briefing the Hon. Member received in camera in committee. The gist of it is that there are still disagreements between members of Cast and CN. A number of these were listed to the Hon. Member in committee. My present position is to leave the Order in Council on the table for a short while, until we find out what is going to happen. It may be that the difficulties can be resolved in the future. Some are hopeful, some are not, but I have decided to let the situation develop for a little while.


Madam Speaker, I hope I do not have to ask a third supplementary. I wish to ask the Minister a very specific question. As a result of any initiative that the Minister or any of his officials may have taken, or as a result of any initiative taken by either the Royal Bank or the Bank of Montreal, did the Minister have meetings today, or will he have meetings later today or tomorrow with that group, with respect to this issue? May I ask a third supplementary, because I realize the afternoon is waning. As a result of any briefings which the Minister may or may not have had, has he had any reason to consult with any of his colleagues in Government with respect to any further investigative action?


Madam Speaker, the answer is no to the two parts of the question. I have not had a recent report from the President of the CNR and I have not had any discussion with my colleagues on this subject since the Order in Council was passed.


Madam Speaker, returning to the subject of freedom of information, in view of the Government's commitment yesterday to abide by the spirit of the Access to Information Act, will the Prime Minister promise to provide answers to Order Paper Questions Nos. 2,158, 2,159 and 2,160, standing in the name of my colleague, the Hon. Member for Okanagan North, since February 24, 1981? These important questions deal with Mr. Joel Bell's contractual relationship with Petro-Canada, his participation in the preparation of the National Energy

June 23, 1983
Oral Questions
Program with Energy, Mines and Resources officials, and possible serious conflicts of interest on the part of Joel Bell, Mr. Bill Hopper, Senator Jack Austin and other senior Government officials. Will the Prime Minister now give the Canadian people access to the truth of this matter?


Madam Speaker, if that is all that the Hon. Member can think of, I will be happy to take notice of the question.


Madam Speaker, I presume that means that the Prime Minister is prepared to answer these important questions.


Madam Speaker, further to the Government's new informative spirit, will the Prime Minister give his undertaking to release all public opinion surveys conducted at taxpayer's expense since 1980 on such important subjects as the Constitution, the energy policy, and economic issues? Will the results of these costly polls be released on a timely basis, meaning as soon as possible, to Members of Parliament and to all the people of Canada, who paid for them?


Madam Speaker, the Act is coming into effect incessantly and I would think that the Hon. Member would want to use the provisions of the Act.


Incessantly?


I would ask the Hon. Member to look up the word "incessantly" in the dictionary.


Madam Speaker, 1 would like to commend the Prime Minister for bringing this important legislation, the Access to Information Act, forward at this time. In the spirit of this Act would the Prime Minister now permit his Departments to release the 1981 and 1982 task force report on Canadair prepared by government officials, so that the standing committee can intelligently deal with the future of the Challenger aircraft?


Madam Speaker, the last two questions have referred to the spirit of the Act. The legislation is there. It says what it says. Why does the Opposition not use the Act to get the documents it is asking for?


Madam Speaker, that speaks well for access to information.


Madam Speaker, I will direct a supplementary question to the President of the Treasury
Board. In view of the provisions of the Access to Information Act, will the President of the Treasury Board table in the House the salaries of all executives and the remuneration paid to all directors of Crown corporations that are responsible to the Government of Canada?


Madam Speaker, that information is in the hands of the responsible Ministers. That is the type of question which, if placed on the Order Paper, generally elicits a complete and fair response. If my hon. friend is so serious about the spirit of the Act, perhaps he could also respect the spirit of the rules of Parliament in that regard.


Hon. Warren Allmand (Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine
East): Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State. In the past week I have learned of an ugly incident that arose in Montreal when a downtown cocktail lounge, known as Le Club Calgary, refused entry to several black citizens and the owner stated that he would close his doors before admitting any black faces. While the Government has agreed to set up a special committee to deal with racism, can the Secretary of State say whether any immediate action can be taken to deal with this issue to assure just treatment for the black community of Montreal?
Madam Speaker, I was appalled when I read in the news the report that the Hon. Member has just mentioned. In a free and civilized society anyone should be able to enter any commercial establishment and not be barred on mere grounds of race, colour, or any other forms of discrimination. It is my strong intention to ensure that the agenda of the next federal-provincial conference on human rights, that is to take place on September 8 and 9 of this year, will include an item on implementation of a human rights act, either provincial or federal, and that that be a topic of discussion and action for all the Ministers who have accepted the invitation to attend the conference.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs who will note that the most intensive independent
June 23, 1983

investigation ever undertaken of Canada's foreign aid program has just been completed by the North-South Institute which today published two reports dealing with Bangladesh and Tanzania. The over-centralization and excessively complex approval procedures of CIDA have been criticized, along with the lack of direction toward clear and practical goals.
Given that the new president of CIDA, Mrs. Margeret Catley-Carlson, has just been appointed, will the Government produce what has been seriously lacking, a comprehensive development strategy for the eighties, so that Canadians can be assured that our aid will proceed in the smoothest way possible to help the poorest people in the least developed countries?


Madam Speaker, that very question is under consideration by myself at the present time.


Madam Speaker, it certainly has been under consideration by the Secretary of State for External Affairs because the question has been brought up by myself in committee several times. I wonder if the reason for the lack of strategy is that the strategy for 1975 to 1980 was rated by the North-South Institute as a failure on 15 out of 21 points.


Madam Speaker, I direct my supplementary question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs as well. The two reports in question today put only part of the blame for underdevelopment in Bangladesh and Tanzania on the respective Governments of those two countries for not giving a high enough priority to ensuring that their own people become more productive. How does the Government intend to re-gear Canada's aid program so that it will reduce aid dependency and increase self-reliance in those countries. Since aid is only a small part of the development process, will the Canadian Government now support the calling of an international financial conference to enlarge the facilities of the international financial institutions, which would resolve the debt crisis that is impairing the least developed countries today?


Madam Speaker, I agree with the Hon. Member when he says that international development is a much broader subject than is the question of aid. It applies to many other aspects including the question of debt.
The Hon. Member asked specifically about an international monetary conference. He will have noticed that in the Williamsburg Declaration there is an intention subscribed to, that the Ministers of Finance, in co-operation with the International Monetary Fund, will examine the circumstances under which the holding of an international monetary conference might be feasible. I believe that a very important recognition
Oral Questions
was made by the Summit leaders that the monetary situation requires constant monitoring.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans and is in regard to the Amax mining operation at Alice Arm in British Columbia. I am sure that by now, the Minister is in possession of the study made by EVS Consultants of British Columbia, which has determined that 57 per cent of the species and 51 per cent of the individual organisms within five and one half kilometres of the mine's outfall are dead. Since groups representing an absolute majority of Canadians support a full public inquiry into the mining operation, and since the mine is close, will the Minister indicate whether or not he will call a full public inquiry into the subject? Will he comment in the House on the fact that, after dumping less than 5 per cent of the allowed tonnage, over one half of the marine life is gone within five and one half kilometres of the mine's outfall in one of the best fishing grounds in Canada?


Madam Speaker, as the Hon. Member knows, a scientific committee has studied the question and I do not think that the assertions made by the Hon. Member reflect all of the facts.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Mines. I am sure the Minister must be aware of the fact that a federal Government study has determined that safe on land tailings could be constructed at the Amax Kitsault operation for about a 2 per cent difference on return on investment to Amax Corporation. Since there are still workers at the closed mine site, would the Minister undertake to make use of Section 38 of the Unemployment Insurance Act, as she has for other closed mine sites, and any other measures that Cabinet might propose at this time, to ensure that safe on land tailing ponds are constructed during this period while the mine is closed? Studies that have been provided to the Government indicate that over half of the life in the first five kilometres of the inlet is dead.


Madam Speaker, I should like to inform the Hon. Member that we are looking at job-creation proposals from Amax using Section 38. The 2 per cent which the Hon. Member referred to, however, translates to $23 million. Given the current situation and the cash flow problems of the company, $23 million is a fair amount of money. In addition, I should like to point out that all environmental studies indicate that the procedure being used now is a safe procedure.

June 23, 1983
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Hon. Minister of Finance, and with your permission, I would like to get back to the economic situation in Canada. According to the statistics, the present inflation rate is 5.4 per cent, the lowest in 10 years, and unemployment is dropping as well. It would therefore seem that the Hon. Minister of Finance made the right decision at the right time, and he is to be congratulated. However, I would like to know whether the Minister believes the economic situation will continue to improve and if so, what does he recommend Canadians should do to achieve this?


Madam Speaker, the results achieved by the Canadian economy in recent months are due to joint action taken by all levels of government in Canada and all citizens who supported the 6 and 5 program. To answer the Hon. Member's question very briefly, I think it is extremely important that we should continue to act in the same spirit of solidarity and self-discipline with respect to the demands we make on the economy, both in terms of prices and wages. I am convinced that after the experience of this past year, all Canadians will be in favour of strongly supporting the policy that has been the Government's during that time.


Madam Speaker, 1 have but one question for the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, and he has had previous notice of it. It concerns Newmac Manufacturing Incorporated which has plants in Nova Scotia and Ontario. The company has a dire need for an immediate loan guarantee. I am sure that Minister is aware of the viability of the company. In the last seven years of operation it has had six years of profit, and has forecast sales for this year of over $8 million, $2 million of which are for export. At the moment $1.5 million worth of orders are waiting to be fabricated and sold by the end of July.
Could the Minister indicate if he is prepared to assist this company with a loan guarantee? If he cannot give immediate approval, would his officials be willing to meet with company officials in Ottawa in the immediate future?


Madam Speaker, my officials have already met with officials of the company this week. As the Hon. Member knows, the
Government of Canada through the FBDB already has substantial financial exposure with the company to date. It is highly unlikely that we will be able to give financial assistance in the short time frame that the Hon. Member requests.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice. At three o'clock this afternoon the Minister will table what are called the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code relating to obscenity, and soliciting for the purposes of prostitution. The mayors of various cities and municipalities across the country have been calling for a considerable period of time for some firm action to overcome the "pressing and persistent" requirement imposed by the Supreme Court of Canada on the provision that covers soliciting for the purposes of prostitution.
Will the proposed amendments that the Minister will table be sufficient to deal with the complaints that have been received by citizens across the country, particularly those represented by the mayors and municipalities?


Madam Speaker, it is a little difficult to discuss this in advance of the tabling of the document to which the Hon. Member refers and of which I have given him advance notice. I think I can say that it is because I am not satisfied that the amendments I will propose in either of the areas of pornography or prostitution are in themselves sufficient, that I will also announce an additional step later this afternoon. I will certainly keep the Hon. Member informed of that.


Madam Speaker, the matter of soliciting for the purposes of prostitution has been before the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs for 18 months. That Committee issued a report with very specific recommendations about amendments to the Criminal Code designed to deal with the problem presented to the Government by the decision of the Supreme Court of Canada.
Why is the Minister delaying further any action with respect to the Criminal Code, having regard to the fact that through the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs the House has spoken very clearly and has made specific recommendations which should be taken to heart by the Minister, since they were supported by Members of his own Party?


Madam Speaker, again it is very difficult to debate this before the documents are presented. The Hon. Member quite correctly refers to the report of the Standing Committee on Justice and
June 23, 1983

Legal Affairs. It was not unanimous support, however, Madam Speaker; three of the four women on the Committee dissented from that report. I think that is an indication of the lack of consensus that exists in Parliament and in the country on this issue. I would be very happy to discuss this more fully after the documents are in the public domain.


Madam Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the President of the Treasury Board which becomes relevant because of the proclamation on July 1 of the Bill with respect to information and privacy. For some time there has been concern in the House about which Committee the Bill would be directed to. I have made suggestions, as has the Hon. Member for Wellington-Dufferin-Simcoe, that the Government might consider the Joint Standing Committee on Regulations and Other Statutory Instruments as the appropriate Committee through which the Bill would report to Parliament. I know that the Minister has been consulting with the Minister of Justice on the matter. Has a decision been made with respect to this?


Madam Speaker, I have been consulting with my colleague, the Government House Leader. There has not been a decision as yet. 1 note the suggestion made by my hon. friend, but another possibility is the Justice Committee. 1 will endeavour to have a decision available and communicated to my hon. friend as soon as possible.


Madam Speaker, I have one other question with respect to the Act. So that Parliament may know the depth of the commitment of the Government in terms of man years and other assets that are important to the two Commissioners, would the President of the Treasury Board table a list of the particular public servants who are to be employed specifically in the offices of the two Commissioners who are reporting under that Act, as soon as possible. Could it include the man years that are to be allowed for the two Commissioners and whether those man years will be increased as time goes on? Could it contain, particularly, the initial man years so that Parliament may know the commitment of the Government to the two new Commissioners.


Madam Speaker, 1 can go beyond what my hon. friend is requesting and provide the information right now. We will be proposing to Parliament, in a supplementary estimate to be presented in the fall, an interim level of 46 person years and a budget of $2.8 million for these offices. We are willing to consider proposing to Parliament higher resource levels for
Oral Questions
future years when there has been some experience with the work load. We hope the House will support the supplementary estimates to cover these resources which we are asking for on an interim basis.


Madam Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. Is the Minister now prepared to change the plan announced last November to tax certain northern benefits which had not been previously taxed?


No, Madam Speaker.


['1 have the honour to inform the House that the petitions presented by Hon. Members on June 1983, meet the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.\nTabling of Documents\nThe petition presented by the Hon. Member for Kindersley-Lloydminster (Mr. McKnight) does not meet the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.']
That being the case, Madam Speaker, may I ask if the Hon. Member for Nunat-siaq was in error on April 13 when he said that the Minister of Finance promised to deal with the taxation issue once the budget debate was concluded?


Madam Speaker, the Hon. Member for Nunatsiaq has been very active on this issue. He has done an excellent job and has been very devoted to the interests of his voters. In meetings that I had with him and some of his constituents I indicated that I would be ready to review the situation. As I indicated in my previous answer to the Hon. Member when he asked me if I was ready to announce anything, the answer is no.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. As he is no doubt aware, Chile is on the eve of a general strike led by copper workers, bus drivers and taxi drivers, who are heading up a wide, disciplined, non-violent coalition of Chileans demanding restoration of the democracy that Chile maintained for several decades before Pinochet's coup in 1973. Pinochet's dictatorship has responded with increased government violence, beatings, killings, kidnappings and jailing of union leaders.
In light of this grave unrest, fueled by 21 per cent inflation, almost 30 per cent unemployment, and the bankruptcy of several banks and mutual credit funds, will the Minister explain to this House why Canada recently chose to assist in
26720

June 23, 1983
Oral Questions
the sale of oil to the Pinochet regime, and why Canada chose to renew the Export Development Corporation's line of credit to a Government apparently collapsing because of its brutality to its own people?


Madam Speaker, 1 gather the Hon. Member is raising in a general way the relationship we should draw between forms of economic assistance and collaboration with countries which have a record of less than full respect for human rights. The Hon. Member knows this is a rather complex question but it was fully addressed with respect to Central America by the subcommittee of the Standing Committee on External Affairs. I found their conclusions reasonably acceptable, namely, that in all cases it would be wrong to deny economic collaboration or assistance to a country because of human rights violations. Certainly where the violations are so gross that it is impossible to implement appropriate programs to assist people, then that ought to be a conclusive factor.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Solicitor General. When RCMP divisional headquarters was moved from Victoria last year the Minister said the negative impact would be minimal since employees would be given top priority for other federal jobs in the Victoria area. But top priority has not helped many of these employees, especially in the CR-4 and CR-5 categories. Other Departments have sloughed them off as being unsuitable or untrainable. They face permanent unemployment because Government Departments refuse to recognize the priority system.
Is the Minister aware that the system of priority placements is not working for these employees? Will he personally look into the Victoria situation and make representations to the Public Service Commission to ensure that other Government Departments give proper priority to former RCMP employees?


Madam Speaker, first of all I would like to assure the Hon. Member, and through him the people of British Columbia, that the move of the regional headquarters from Victoria to Vancouver has been an excellent one from the point of view of effective law enforcement, which has been considerably enhanced in British Columbia by the rationalization involved in that move. As I indicated at the time, those members who wanted to remain in Victoria, and civilian staff who did not want to move to Vancouver, would be given priority for alternate federal employment in the Victoria region. I will certainly look into the allegations of the Hon. Member and try to ensure that priority is being respected by other Government Departments.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Veterans Affairs. The battle of Dieppe in 1942 undoubtedly saved countless lives in the D-Day invasion two years later. Six thousand soldiers and eight RCAF squadrons participated at Dieppe. Given the fact that there were more than 3,000 casualties, including 907 Canadians killed and 1,946 taken as prisoners of war, I am wondering when the Government of Canada is going to strike a medal, or at least a ribbon, for these courageous Canadians.


Madam Speaker, traditionally medals are struck to commemorate participation in campaigns, not usually for participation in specific battles. It is for this reason a medal was not struck for Dieppe.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Hon. Minister of Transport. Since the freight assistance program is considered to be essential to the maintenance and development of the regional economy in Atlantic Canada, and the removal of the present subsidy could result in rate increases of as much as 50 per cent, what steps does the Minister plan to take to preserve Atlantic Canada's industrial capability?


Madam Speaker, I have answered this question a number of times. The first point I made was that we are having a study done now. Similar studies were done in the past of the 1927 Maritime Freight Rate Assistance Program. The decision is not made; we just want to know what purpose these subsidies accomplish now. In knowledge there must be some value.
The second point is that I have read articles from the Maritimes, some of them by prestigious organizations, to the effect that these subsidies do not play the role they possibly used to play in the past in the Maritimes. Third, in recent years I have developed what I call the Maritime envelope under which, when the federal Government makes savings in the Maritimes on subsidies, we put them in that envelope and use them for other transportation purposes. I think that makes sense, does it not?


income, and reduced employment opportunities. Therefore, will the Minister encourage the retention of the freight assistance program which all Governments in Atlantic Canada have indicated is essential to the maintenance and development of Atlantic Canada's regional economy?


Madam Speaker, my hon. friend is a very experienced politician. Would he not be surprised if the provincial politicians in the Maritimes did not endorse a federal subsidy in the Maritimes? Would he not be surprised? I would be very surprised.
We have a federal-provincial memorandum of understanding, under which both they and we are committed to the kind of study we are making now. It seems to me all of that makes sense. Anyway, the decision will not be taken in camera, it will be an open one following discussions with the interested parties. At the moment the consultant is consulting with some of them, and federal and provincial officials will be in communication with different groups, too. So, the decision will be a public one, not secretive.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Can she share with the House any plans she has for the new Canada Health Act which would affect the issue of comprehensiveness? Specifically, in the new Canada Health Act will there be an expansion of services to include groups such as nurses, physiotherapists, psychologists and so on?


Madam Speaker, in May of last year, at the annual meeting, certain proposals were made to the provincial Ministers regarding the entrenchment in the new Canada Health Act of basic health services that now exist in all ten provinces, so that once and for all, all Canadians will know that they are entitled to certain essential services throughout the country. As far as I know, there have not yet been any positive reactions. Some provinces are wondering whether or not it would be risky to do so, and all this will be discussed again when 1 show them the new Bill as soon as it is ready.


1 have the honour to inform the House that the petitions presented by Hon. Members on June 1983, meet the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.
Tabling of Documents
The petition presented by the Hon. Member for Kindersley-Lloydminster (Mr. McKnight) does not meet the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.


It is my duty to inform the House that an objection signed by the Hon. Members for Verdun-Saint-Paul (Mr. Savard), Shefford (Mr. Lapierre), Laval (Mr. Roy), Saint-Denis (Mr. Prud'homme), Montreal-Sainte-Marie (Mr. Malepart), LaSalle (Mr. Campbell), Saint-Jacques (Mr. Guilbault), Saint-Henri-Westmount (Mr. Johnston), Louis-Hebert (Mr. Dawson) and Ottawa-Vanier (Mr. Gauthier) has been filed with me pursuant to Section 20 of the Electoral Boundaries Readjustment Act, Chapter E-2, Revised Statutes of Canada, 1970, to the Report of the Electoral Boundaries Commission for the Province of Quebec.
If the House agrees, 1 would suggest we follow past practice and print the text of the objection as an appendix to this day's Votes and Proceedings. Is that agreed?


Agreed.


Madam Speaker, in accordance with the provisions of Standing Order 46(2), I wish to table, in both official languages, two copies of the Report on the Status of Branches of Foreign Banks.


Madam Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 64(1), 1 wish to table, in both official languages, a Notice of Ways and Means Motion with respect to the interpretation of Canada's international conventions relating to income tax and the Acts implementing such conventions.

June 23, 1983
Tabling of Documents CRIMINAL CODE


Madam Speaker, I am pleased to table a draft Bill to amend the Criminal Code concerning the subjects of obscenity and solicitation. I will be making a further statement later outside the House, Madam Speaker, on these subjects.


Oh, oh!


Point of order!


Point of order!


I recognize the Hon. Member for Saskatoon West on a point of order.


Madam Speaker, I rise on a point of order with respect to this most unusual, unprecedented practice on the part of the Minister of Justice (Mr. MacGuigan), by which he stands in his place and tables a document which is not legislative in nature but, rather, a paper which is referred to as being a proposed Bill to amend the Criminal Code. This impinges upon the rights and privileges of Members of the House of Commons inasmuch as the Minister is tabling a document on which we have no opportunity to comment or question but, rather, he runs across the street to the Press club theatre to make a statement, outside of the House of Commons.
My point of order is simply this. When the Minister stands up and abuses the privileges as a Minister by tabling a document which is not parliamentary, not legislative, and prevents us from making any comment or observations in the House of Commons, I say that my privileges and