That Bill C-163, entitled "An Act to establish the Canadian Aviation Safety Board and to amend certain Acts in consequence thereof', be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Transport.
He said: Mr. Speaker, all Members of this House will agree, I am sure, without my having to demonstrate it, that air transportation safety is important. By approving Bill C-163 on the establishment of the Canadian Aviation Safety Board, Parliament will have taken a long step toward achieving the goal of safe aviation. Obviously we are not the first to involve ourselves in this area. Some Hon. Members will remember perhaps that in 1972-73 the government asked Brigadier-General McLearn to prepare a report on methods used to investigate transportation accidents in general. This report served as the basis for other consultations, which led in 1979 to the introduction of Bill C-40, the Transportation Accident Investigation Act. I would like to point out that at that time the proposed legislation covered three modes of transportation and not just aviation as this Bill does. Bill C-40 having died on the Order Paper, and public opinion having become alerted to certain alarming situations in the aviation sector, the following government, and more specifically the Hon. Member for Vegreville (Mr. Mazankowski), the then Minister of Transport, set up the so-called Dubin Commission to look into aviation safety. The main recommendation of Volume I of the Dubin Report, which was tabled in May, 1981, was precisely that a Canadian Aviation Safety Board be set up.
1 would like to say a brief word on existing aviation safety measures. The current system was drawn up under the provisions of the Aeronautics Act of 1927. It provides for the establishment of safety standards and of measures making it possible to guarantee and ascertain compliance with these standards.
For many years now successive Ministers of Transport have been concerned about the worth and the effectiveness of this system. The Dubin enquiry attracted the attention of the public to the system's deficiencies, a certain number of which
will be corrected by Bill C-163. The reform of the Aeronautics Act, which I expect to present in the fall, will correct other deficiencies. And some of them can be dealt with, and in effect are being so dealt with at present, by simple administrative and budgetary measures.
One element in the existing system has attracted special attention, and that is accident investigations. But I must point out that this is obviously only one of the elements in a much broader system. At the present time, when an accident occurs, an investigation is carried out by the Aviation Safety Bureau, which as you know comes under Transport Canada's Air Administration. It is however also responsible for setting standards, for drawing up the regulations that affect safety in the aviation sector. There is thus a risk of conflict of interest between these two responsibilities, which have hitherto been exercised by the same people.
Mr. Justice Dubin recommended, and I quote:
-the establishment of a tribunal unconnected with any federal department.
And that is just what Bill C-163 provides for: the creation of an aviation safety board independent of Transport Canada, so that the functions related to regulation and those related to investigation will be disassociated from each other.
Once Bill C-163 has been passed and implemented, and the new Aeronautics Act as well, as I hope it will be this fall, I believe that Canada will be endowed with a first-class aviation safety system.
S)

This is only the first of two pieces. The next instalment, if I can call it that, will come in the fall when I am sure we will all be here. In the second "tranche" of this reform there will be important material, for example, the appeals tribunal hearing appeals against the decisions of the Minister, the fines he could impose, or the taking away of licences.
The Bill was drafted so as to set out clearly the Board's objective, jurisdiction, and power. It includes provisions aimed at ensuring that the Board co-ordinates its activities with those of other parties such as the RCMP and coroners who have related mandates. The objective of the CASB is to advance aviation safety, and I emphasize this. It is not to assign guilt; it is not to pass judicial judgment on who has done it right or who has done it wrong. It is just to advance air safety.

June 28, 1983
Canadian Aviation Safety Board
The principal activities of the Board will be as defined in the Bill; first, to identify safety deficiencies as evidenced by aviation accidents and incidents, or by situations or conditions which, if left unattended, could induce accidents or incidents; second, to conduct independent investigations and, if necessary, public inquiries by itself or by other individuals, into aviation occurrences-and the word "occurrences" is the generic word which encompasses accidents, incidents, and situational conditions or hazards-in order to make findings as to their contributing factors and causes; third, to report publicly on its investigations and inquiries and to make general recommendations. These are the three objectives of the Board to be created.
Structurally the CASB will consist of three members, one of whom must be a full-time member appointed by the Governor in Council, as usual, for a term not exceeding seven years for full-time members and five years for part-time members. The Board will be required to report annually to Parliament, to ensure its independence, through a responsible Minister who will be designated by the Governor in Council. Presumably in the committee this afternoon there will be some generous views expressed on this as to who should be the Minister responsible for the Board. There are arguments on all sides.
Under its mandate set out in Clause 12 of the Bill, the Board will be able to investigate, as I already said, any accident, incident or situation associated with the operation of aircraft.
You will have noticed, Mr. Speaker, that the Board's mandate is restricted to aviational occurrences. It is a unimodal board and consequently excludes occurrences in the other transportation modes, rail, road or water. There is no dispute that conflict of interest between regulators and investigators can equally be alleged to occur with respect to the other modes as recognized by a former Bill, C-40, and brilliantly by the Private Members' Bills introduced by the Hon. Member for Dartmouth-Halifax East (Mr. Forrestall) in past years. However, a unimodal board can be established more quickly- I am being very practical-and it is easier for the investigation of air occurrences than for those in the marine and rail modes, partly because of the proselytizing work done by Justice Dubin and others.
We also know that different procedures and practices have been developed in each mode. There is not the same degree of dissatisfaction in the other modes, rail and marine, as on the air side. Consequently, there is more urgency, I suggest, to do it now on the air side than on the other modes. Attempts to move to uniform procedures for consistency could meet with resistance at the present time.
Mr. Justice Dubin has recommended the establishment of a unimodal air board. 1 do not know if he meant first, but that was his recommendation. Let me emphasize that the establishment of the CASB in no way precludes the future establishment of a multimodal board, or unimodal boards, with jurisdiction in the other transportation modes. To that effect, the experience with the CASB will be a valuable guide.
You will also notice, Mr. Speaker, that I am not being theoretical in this matter. I am being purely practical. Work is now being done in the other modes, on the marine side for example. This is an exercise that will last some time, although not too long, and in due course this exercise will come to a conclusion as to the other modes.
Let me enumerate some of the powers and duties of the Board. Investigators will be given a wide array of powers, including the right to enter, inspect, and seize. The powers are limited, however, to those necessary to enable the investigator to obtain all the information required to carry out the purposes of the Act. In keeping with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, appropriate safeguards have been laid down, including the requirement for the investigator to obtain a search warrant before entering a private dwelling.
The Board will be required to prepare a report on its findings in every investigation and that report will, whenever possible, include general recommendations, as I said before, on its findings. All reports will be made available to the public.
The Board will be required to give other parties opportunities for comment during and after the preparation of reports. For example, before a report is issued, parties with a direct interest must be provided with a draft of that report to comment on. The Board will also be required to provide its report to any Minister whose area of responsibility is affected by the recommendation. That Minister will, in turn, be required to reply in writing within 90 days as to his intentions regarding the implementation of the recommendations. As the Minister's reply must also be made available to the public, the entire sequence of events, including the Government's response, can be examined by the public.
I would like to stress the fact that all of these things were recommended by Dubin. In some cases we have partially amended the recommendations, but never have we gone against what Dubin had recommended.
What about privileged information? The Board in its investigation will obtain evidence of various sorts. For some of those documents there is a good reason to claim privilege from disclosure. The reason is to encourage the evidence to be made available by persons involved. Again the purpose of the inquiry would be to advance aviation safety, not to assign guilt.
Let me give you three examples of this, Mr. Speaker. First, the Board might receive in evidence a cockpit voice recording. Under the terms of this Bill, that document will be privileged and the Board will be prevented from releasing it to anyone or producing it in any proceedings other than as specifically set out in the Bill. There are some provisions in the Bill for cockpit voice recordings to be made available to other parties.
Second, the use of air traffic control recordings obtained by the Board will be prohibited, but only for use against air crew and controllers in criminal or disciplinary proceedings. In
June 28, 1983

other words, there are different degrees of privilege ranging from a degree that is nearly absolute in principle to one that is quite limited. Every situation is described in the Bill so as to avoid misunderstanding.
The third type of document is witnesses' statements, and those will not be allowed to be used against a witness in any legal or other proceeding except civil or perjury proceedings. All of this is defined in some detail in the Bill because the subject is obviously a very difficult one, and a ticklish one as well.
The privilege provisions in the Bill have been developed as a set of compromises after long consideration of the arguments on both sides, the individual and the public interest. I believe that they strike the balance required to provide adequate protection to ensure that evidence is forthcoming while, at the same time, respecting the general principle in favour of public disclosure and the over-all policy thrust of the Access to Information Act.
Again, 1 stress the fact that nothing in the Bill contradicts the Dubin Report. Some of the provisions go further than recommended, but nothing contradicts the recommendations of the distinguished Justice who gave his name to the report on air safety.
What about incident reporting? In 1981 a study of a comprehensive aviation incident reporting system was undertaken. That was after the Dubin Report. As a result of that study the Bill includes a Clause to enable the Board to set up mandatory and/or voluntary incident reporting systems. There is room for justification of a mandatory system for some big commercial transportation systems, and a voluntary system for smaller carriers, smaller planes, individual pilots et cetera. In the first case the situation is more or less institutionalized. There is a pattern of reporting. In the second, we want to entice people to come forward so it is done on a voluntary basis. All of this is debatable and those who prepared the Bill again attempted to do a balancing act, which is the only "Act" Parliament has never passed, but obviously is the most important of them all.
[ Translation\
The Bill contains clauses obliging the Board to co-operate, as far as possible, with other federal and provincial government bodies such as provincial police forces and coroners. These clauses are there because of concerns expressed by the provincial Attorneys General in the course of discussions surrounding Bill C-40 in 1979. For example, Bill C-163 contains a special provision guaranteeing peace officers and coroners access to the information they need to carry out their own investigations, and requiring that if necessary the Board shall communicate its preliminary conclusions to the coroners.
The preparation for Bill C-163 began a long time ago. The government had the advantage of expert advice in all fields, and particularly from the conclusions of the Dubin Report as well as the many presentations that were made within the framework of the Dubin Commission enquiry. I believe that we took full advantage of all the advice we received and that
Canadian Aviation Safety Board
its high quality is reflected in that of the Bill we have before us at the present time. It only remains for me to express the hope that my fellow Members will consider that the Bill deserves their support. I would especially like to thank for their cooperation the Hon. Members for Prince Edward-Hastings (Mr. Ellis), Dartmouth-Halifax East (Mr. Forrestall) and Comox-Powell River (Mr. Skelly), who are, I believe, going to speak on the Bill. I want to thank them for their co-operation because it is thanks to them that the House will be able to pass this Bill fairly rapidly this morning, on second reading.


Mr. Speaker, Bill C-163, an Act to establish the Canadian Aviation Safety Board, has finally made it to the floor of the House of Commons and frankly, Mr. Speaker, it is damn near time.
Before I deal with the substance of the Bill I intend to take a few moments to deal with the timing of this very important piece of legislation. It is intriguing that in introducing the Bill-and I have not discussed what was to be said-the cadence of the Minister's remarks ties in with mine so that I can discuss them as I speak.
The July issue of the Canadian version of the Reader's Digest has as its lead story and article entitled "Air Safety- The Shocking Record". In that article of five pages, condensed in the manner of Reader's Digest, are a number of statements guaranteed to give the millions of readers, and especially those who are regular fliers, a very real fear of flying in general, and of flying in Canada in particular. The article speaks of an accident in Vancouver Harbour in which 11 people were killed, stating that the investigation was confused and delayed. The last sentence of the paragraph is, "Still no preventive action was taken".
The article goes on to discuss the actions of Mr. Justice Dubin, stating:
He encountered a shocking record of neglect and cover-up in the Canadian Air Transport Administration, the very agency charged with air safety.
After a series of sensational statements such as this, the article concludes by saying that the Parliament of Canada must act in this matter.
The Parliament of Canada has been prepared to act for a long time, Mr. Speaker. The Minister mentioned the Aeronautics Act which will be put before us for changes in the fall. Recently, that Act has been universally condemned by many aviation authorities. The amendments are very necessary. I hope the second part of this dual set of legislation will not be so hard to get started through the House.
The Bill we are discussing today was ready in late 1982. The Transport Committee, through its Chairman, the Hon. Member for Northumberland-Miramichi (Mr. Dionne), and others, is more than willing and has been more than willing to deal with the matter on a priority basis.

June 28, 1983
Canadian Aviation Safety Board
The time and effort put into the whole matter do not warrant the delay we have experienced over the past seven months. At the Dubin Commission there were 116 hearings, 350 witnesses gave testimony, there were 26,000 pages of oral testimony, and 30,000 pages of exhibits and other evidence.
Given the accidents of an extremely serious nature in air transportation over the last few weeks, this may be one of the more important pieces of legislation that Parliament will deal with in this session. The Minister called it a giant step. I think any nomenclature of that nature we could give to the Bill could not over estimate or over state the importance of the matter. Yet for the last seven months the Liberal House Leader has refused to bring the Bill before Parliament. Now, in the dying days, we are told that only two hours will be allowed for debate in the House. It must go through committee today and be reported back to the House tomorrow without debate. Is it any wonder that Opposition Parties balk at the heavy-handed, inconsiderate, partisan, and highly political way in which legislation is dealt with by the Government?
The aviation community wanted this Bill dealt with earlier. It did not want the ministerial advisory committee with members of the Canadian Air Transport administration on it taking the slower steps that were taken to hold the legislation up before it got to the House. In an unprecedented show of unanimity ten aviation associations told the Minister of Transport to implement Volume I of the CASB when it was released in May, 1981. Those bodies were the Air Transport Association of Canada, the Canadian Air Line Pilots Association, the Canadian Air Traffic Controllers Association, the Canadia Air Line Flight Attendants Association, the Canadian Air Line Dispatchers Association, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the Canadian Owners and Pilots Association, the Royal Canadian Flying Clubs Association, L'Association des Gens de l'Air du Quebec, and the Aircraft Operations Group.
There will necessarily be a number of bodies such as these which will want to speak on the Bill in committee. I am delighted to report that these associations, given the very short notice, have made a real effort, either to attend this afternoon on the assumption that, as we have agreed, we will put the Bill through the House this morning-they have agreed to attend, or have already submitted very interesting comments on the Bill.
Let me deal for a moment with the background of the Bill, Mr. Speaker. It is the result of the continuation of the Progressive Conservative Party's 1979 election campaign promise and its implementation by the former Minister of Transport, the Hon. Member for Vegreville (Mr. Mazankowski). He probably contributed more to the competent government of Canada in that short time than any Minister of the Crown. He certainly accomplished more in the Department of Transport, prorated, than any Minister before or since. He was able to convince the Cabinet of the Right Hon. Member for Yellowhead (Mr. Clark) to appoint Mr. Justice Charles Dubin to a commission of Inquiry on aviation safety.
While he took definitive action and from that action came this legislation, he was not alone in recognizing the need. The Minister spelled out in some detail those who had looked at this matter before and indicated the need for this type of legislation. There were discussion papers from the Air Transport Association of Canada in 1977, and the Bill that the Minister mentioned, Bill C-40, which was not passed by the House.
I have to mention, as did the Minister, my colleague, the Hon. Member for Dartmouth-Halifax East (Mr. Forrestall), who has long advocated a multi-mode safety board. I know he is particularly concerned with this Bill and I trust that he will speak on it. Like myself he is happy that we finally have a piece of legislation.
The question that obviously arises is whether we must wait for a Royal commission of inquiry on each subject, or a major catastrophe in each mode of transportation, before we finally get a similar body for marine and surface transportation.
The first report of the commission of inquiry headed by Mr. Justice Dubin, was tabled in May, 1981. The 63 recommendations in Volume 1 of that report dealt with the establishment of an independent Canadian Aviation Safety Board. A year later, in March, 1982, a leading editorial in the Toronto Globe and Mail dealt with the matter, and I quote from that editorial:
It is all the more necessary to create, as Justice Dubin recommends, an independent body, the Canadian Aviation Safety Board, to investigate aircraft accidents and safety practices.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, two years later, the legislation is being dealt with in this House. It is indeed a sorry record of this Government. In fairness here, I must point out that the fault lies very heavily on the Government House Leader, since I know that the present Minister of Transport (Mr. Pepin) tried repeatedly to have this matter brought forward in the past seven months. Indeed, he showed the courtesy to the members of the Standing Committee on Transport to apprise us of the steps he had taken, and to keep us posted along the way on what was happening.
Let me briefly deal with the substance of the Bill, Mr. Speaker. The Board will have jurisdiction over any aviation accident or incident within Canada. I define the word "incident" roughly as a situation which could or may have led to an accident. In addition the Board will have the right to cooperate with other jurisdictions where Canadian aircraft are involved in accidents or incidents outside Canada, and with the Department of National Defence in Canada. The Board will have the right to conduct public inquiries for the purpose of finding the causes and making recommendations, but, as the Minister said, not to apportion blame.
The Board will have the right to enter, inspect, seize and protect, and all of those things which the Minister mentioned, as part of its ability to carry on a proper investigation. I am a little upset that we have no idea of what the regulations will be. Obviously, much of what will happen will be carried out
June 28, 1983

within the regulations. I fully agree that the members of the Board should be given the full opportunity to participate in the formulation of those regulations. Elowever, I would have like to have seen some draft outlines of regulations, because there are a few matters in the Bill which are not as clear as I feel they should be.
In my opinion, and I am sure in the opinion of a number of my collegues, it would have been a much better piece of legislation in this instance had the Government followed more closely the recommendations of Mr. Justice Dubin. For example, the recommendations of Mr. Justice Dubin specifically included that certain present functions of the Department of Transport be transferred to the Canadian Aviation Safety Board, including the Aviation Safety Bureau, the Aviation Safety Engineering Division, the Aviation Safety Analysis Division, and the Aviation Safety Promotion Division, none of which are explicit in the Bill. When Canadians read articles such as that which I quoted a few moments ago from the Reader's Digest, I am sure that they would want to expect an independent body to have charge of these functions, given the lack of care taken by the Canadian Air Transport Administration in the past.
I am delighted to see the Minister nodding his head as though, in a sense, there is a good rapport between the Minister and myself. Perhaps that will happen. If it does, I would be delighted.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, the Dubin Report recommended that a Minister, other than the Minister of Transport, be responsible in the House of Commons for the new safety board. Once again, that Minister is not named in the Bill. The Bill also states that the Board shall send a draft report of accidents or incidents to that Minister on a confidential basis. While 1 can certainly appreciate the need for confidentiality with regard to cockpit tapes and other pieces of information which may, in fact, he vital to any subsequent criminal or civil trial, nonetheless, there was never any specific recommendation of confidentiality in the Dubin Report, and I doubt that there is quite the need for confidentiality as is outlined in the Bill. It will be very interesting to see exactly how this is dealt with in the regulations. I appreciated the remarks of the Minister a few moments ago when he spelled out in his three examples the possibility of making available certain information in certain instances. However, we will have to see how that works.
I fully understand, Mr. Speaker, that for a Board as important and as new as this one, there will necessarily be a breaking-in period during which the Board will have to proceed very carefully and cautiously, because, obviously it will be breaking new ground in the area of the administration of air safety. It does, however, Mr. Speaker, follow the Government's penchant for secrecy. It is interesting, in light of the freedom of information legislation which is with us right now, that some of these matters are included in this Bill.
An editorial in the Winnipeg Free Press a little over a week ago stated:
Canadian Aviation Safety Board
There is no reason why it has taken ten years for appropriate legislation to be acted upon in Parliament. The number of accidents in which the present investigator, the Ministry of Transport, was itself involved in its dual role of regulator of the aviation industry, has been growing at a rate which demands prompt action to create an independent board.
This, Mr. Speaker, is just one of many examples of the growing cry within the community for the Board with which we are asked to deal today. The editorial went on to say that the Bill, having been introduced as it was about two weeks ago, left only two weeks in the spring session of Parliament, and again quoting the editorial, "There is some suspicion that the Bill has surfaced not so much on its own merits but as a matter so desired by responsible Members that they may be willing to ease up on the more controversial legislation."
I can tell the House, Mr. Speaker, and the Minister knows this, that the Bill has surfaced because the Hon. Member for Dartmouth-Halifax East, the Hon. Member for Comox-Powell River (Mr. Skelly), myself, and others have been hammering at the Minister. In fairness to him, he has been trying for lo these past few months to get this Bill before the House. It is an important piece of legislation and we all recognize the necessity for it. It is only because of the major importance of this piece of legislation that those Hon. Members I have mentioned, and myself, are bending the regulations and the rules in order to deal with it as expeditiously as we are.
I have already in my possession, as I said earlier, recommendations and suggestions from those air associations which I have mentioned. Their comments must, of necessity, be given a major priority and, indeed, this afternoon we will deal with them at some length. I am purposely making my comments brief, Mr. Speaker. I know others want to get involved in this debate. Everyone involved in air safety is bending over backwards to accommodate this particular piece of legislation.
A committee meeting is tentatively called for this afternoon on the assumption that the Bill will pass. The witnesses who wish to come before the committee are in place, again assuming that the Bill will pass. We are prepared, all of us, to deal with it expeditiously. There will not be major changes made in the Bill, if any. Frankly, we do not like the idea of having this Bill pushed on us in this second or third last day of the sittings of the House of Commons before the summer recess. However, as the Minister has said, it is a giant step. It is a most important piece of legislation and, because of that, we are going to deal with it as expeditiously as possible. The tragedy, Mr. Speaker, is that we are having to go about it in this manner when it has been sitting idle for the last seven months.


Mr. Speaker, I am speaking today with some very mixed feelings about the particular legislation before us and the way in which it is being handled. I would like to comment particularly on some of the remarks made by the previous speaker.
I returned from my constituency late last night to find this Bill was in fact up for debate today. I was absolutely astounded this morning to come into the House and find it to be the

June 28, 1983
Canadian Aviation Safety Board
intention of the Government to push the Bill through committee, report stage, and final reading tomorrow. Let me say at the outset that I have no part in this and I totally disagree with this approach, and I will elaborate why.
One of the comments that Mr. Justice Dubin made as a result of his investigation concerned interference by the Ministry of Transport in the activities of the air safety investigation group. One of the primary thrusts of this Bill is to separate those two groups. Therefore, the public is in no way in jeopardy if we continue this process through to the fall and the investigation units are allowed to conduct their competent thorough investigations and report them in a fair and open manner. If that happens, serious accidents, which happen from time to time in aviation, can be investigated and the important points brought to light. But I would like to re-emphasize that the public would be in no further jeopardy if we maintain this same procedure until the fall. The Bill should go through second reading today, be referred to committee, and then all parties who presented material to the Dubin inquiry should have an opportunity to comment on this Bill.
It is not correct to say, Mr. Speaker, that the people who were so instrumental in bringing out critical information before the Dubin Commission have had a chance to peruse this Bill. I am speaking today without having had an opportunity of perusing the Bill in the way I would have liked, to compare it with Mr. Justice Dubin's recommendations, work through some of the details, and have a chance to think about them. Concerning the groups that have been contacted to appear in committee, some have attempted to put together a brief quickly, but certainly I suspect they have not had any greater opportunity to think about the Bill. I am pleased that someone managed to produce for me briefs from two organizations which will attempt to appear tonight. I have had telephone conversations with other organizations which have spent thousands of dollars and put in thousands of hours in an attempt to enhance air safety in Canada.
One group were approached and asked if they would like to appear, but the notice was too short for them to be able to prepare anything suitable for the committee, so they will not be attending the committee meeting. They have had no opportunity to examine the legislation in the kind of detail they feel is necessary. They have itemized two serious problems they want to have more time to look at before they come forward. Their final comment is that this is too serious a matter to stuff through in an afternoon.
My research assistant is in the lobby this afternoon trying to run through a group of organizations to get their response to the jamming through of this Bill.
As I said, Mr. Speaker, it was my understanding that this legislation would pass through second reading, and I would like to see that happen. We could then move to committee with an opportunity to talk about the Bill, and talk to the Minister about possible changes or further clarification of questions we have. Then we could use the summer to solicit input from organizations responsible for making the Dubin Commission the successful inquiry it was. We could give them a fair chance
to examine the Bill, something this whole country would benefit from because of their expertise. But unfortunately that is not being done. I think the Government is just being totally and completely irresponsible in doing this. It is more concerned about the House Leader's scorecard than aviation safety.
It might be interesting, Mr. Speaker, to examine this material in the context of the Government's proposal for changes to the Aeronautics Act. I appeal to the Minister to release the draft of those changes as soon as possible so that people can have a reasonable opportunity to comment on and look at this particular legislation in conjunction with those changes.
The Dubin Commission has to be one of the most successful Commissions ever undertaken in Canada. First, it was not this Government which appointed the Commission. It was in fact the Opposition when they were in Government. I think that had a nice touch to it in that it was slightly more open and comprehensive than it might otherwise have been. But that is only speculation. However, many people were very impressed with the product. It might be useful to consider having a variety of input into the appointment of such commissions in order to round out the various points of view.
Another interesting thing I found in going through the Commission's material is that many employee groups were involved. It was the unions, organized labour, and the Government's own employees who came forward with information. There were attempts by the Government to stop them from testifying before the Commission. But they made a very great contribution, and I would go so far as to say that had they not made that contribution we would not have had the report before us today.
There were senior officials within the air transport administration who attempted to rewrite accident reports or have accident investigators modify their reports. That was a major reason for the lack of confidence in the procedures; it was not the air accident investigators, it was the senior officials. On page 25 of the Commission's report there is reference to a memo to a regional controller which says, "You are to fully consider the possibility of embarrassment to the Minister and any other potential political implications which may result from suspensions". This is absolutely astounding.


You have given it a special meaning.


What I am suggesting, Mr. Speaker, is not to point the finger of criticism, because we have to recognize that there are changes being made. But given the fact that some of the soundest recommendations in Mr. Dubin's report came about because of the commitment of hundreds if not thousands of hours of time by the Government's own employees, perhaps there is some room in this legislation for a permanent advisory body made up of selected individuals representing employee groups. The Minister might consider that in order to facilitate their input.
Another thing to note, Mr. Speaker, is that probably some of the worst examples of labour relations in Government are
June 28, 1983

those between the air administration employees and its management. Hopefully restructuring of that organization will result in better employee relations and a better opportunity for employees to have meaningful consultation with management on matters which affect air safety and that of transportation in general. Those relations must be improved, and there is really no visible public indication at this point in time that that kind of improvement is under way.
It is critically important that along with this legislation air transport administration, employee relations and the mechanisms for providing advisory input be strengthened and improved. 1 would just use an example of one area of which the Minister and many others are aware. It stems from the Cran-brook crash which has been discussed at length by government and involves a litany of errors. 1 think that maybe even Mr. Justice Dubin erred in recommending that positive control of vehicles on the runway be given to flight radio operators. These people are dealing with vehicles on runways at remote airports. They could be hundreds of miles away. They are also faced with controlling vehicles in areas where they cannot see the runway. Individuals have come forward and reported errors and in some places disciplinary action has been taken. They have asked for provisions in their contract that would protect them, and if the tapes are searched and errors found, that they be used for improving operational standards rather than disciplinary action. At some point in the day, I think the Minister should comment on these peripheral matters that are important to air safety.
Just before I conclude I would like to comment on some of the other occurrences in general aviation that disturb me. I wonder if this is not part of the mechanism by which the Government is trying to improve air safety, and that is by driving people out of aviation. I am very concerned about the move that I see toward dramatically increasing costs and restrictions on flying which I do not think will particularly increase safety. It is incumbent upon the Government to show where its proposals will increase safety.
I recently had an opportunity to peruse a document released by a senior official of the Department of Transport which listed a number of recommendations about restraining private and general aviation. The rationale for so doing was the Dubin Report. In all honesty, some of the recommendations were solid but in other areas they were not. The additional restrictions and constraints would simply result in driving up the cost of aviation and driving people out of the business.
I would like to give some recent examples. Parking fees have become absolutely astronomical. The Government argues that it is doing a cost recovery program, but it drove virtually every private aircraft out of the Port Hardy airport. They have all moved away and people have sold off their aircraft and have ceased becoming involved in flying any more. What revenue there was has been lost. My thought is that maybe it is simply
Canadian Aviation Safety Board
reducing the number of people flying and therefore the potential for accidents is being removed.
There is also a monopoly involving fuel costs at airports. It is time there was an inquiry into how ordinary 80-octane and 100-octane gas for airplanes, which is virtually the equivalent to regular unleaded gas at the service station, can cost in excess of 60 cents a litre. It is just ridiculous. Maybe we should be considering the manner in which those concessions are granted and those prices arrived at airports, because it is driving people out of aviation. It will certainly reduce the number of accidents if people do not or cannot fly.
Radio licensing, a complete aggravation, has increased 100 per cent with absolutely no rationale for so doing.


Was it the six and five?


No, the six and five is a matter with which we can deal later.


That's before six and five.


Concerning occupational training, there are many people who are still interested in becoming pilots, air crew and whatnot. However, the cost of occupational training is astronomical. To obtain a private licence costs in the order of $3,500. God knows what a full 200 hours of flying time to obtain a commercial licence is worth. If one wants 40 more hours for an instrument rating or one wants to obtain an ATR or senior commercial licence, it is beyond the reach of most people, yet the Government moved not too long ago to restrict the claiming of a deduction on income tax. It is quite prepared to put up student loans and facilitate, to whatever degree, other training programs, but it does not provide a reasonable opportunity for the people who want to pursue a career in aviation. The expense is beyond belief and simple assistance with income tax to bona fide individuals pursuing that field would be useful.


Some of those fees have not been increased for 30 years.


Some of those fees have not been increased for 30 years, the Minister says, but there have been dramatic increases. If there is any doubt about it, I would be more than pleased to show him concrete examples of where the increases in fees have driven people out of aviation, and these increases are simply not justified.
I would simply be very cautious to ensure that there is a great deal of consultation about the way in which restrictions are placed on the flying public, because I am certain that it is not the intention of the Government to drive people out of aviation. There is an argument for cost recovery. There is an argument for restrictions on certain kinds of activities. However, this must be carefully considered because people are being driven out today in, I would say, record numbers.


The total cost recovery is 5 per cent to 10 per cent.


I hope the Minister has a chance to respond just before the Bill goes through. There have been some very
26848

June 28, 1983
Canadian Aviation Safety Board
serious aviation accidents. Maybe we in the House are a little bit guilty of blowing them out of proportion at times. It is unfortunate that we must do that in order to catch attention and gain a freer flow of information on matters that concern us and the people we represent.
It still strikes me that the most dangerous part of flying, as the old adage says, is driving to the airport. Per passenger mile, we should probably be spending much money and effort on highway safety, or at least the equivalent, where costs for damage, death and injury are astronomical. Nevertheless, air safety is vitally important. More and more people fly. The Bill before us today is a start in the right direction. It is extremely unfortunate that the Government has chosen to move in this manner and that it is intending to push the Bill through all stages today without allowing consultation with other affected groups which would provide very valuable input.


Mr. Speaker, when I first raised, in this Chamber, the question of separating the departmental regulatory responsibilities from those of its investigative arm back in 1967, some 16 years ago, 1 thought that perhaps the wisdom of simply removing any potential reason to believe conflict of interest might arise or could arise would in fact occur to Government and to Members of Parliament and that very shortly we might resolve the matter. But by 1968 or 1969, nothing had happened. By 1970, nothing had happened.
Therefore I took it upon myself to consult with the transportation industry in Canada. Without exception, as the Minister is aware, everyone agreed that there should be our a priori independent commission to consider transportation occurrences. I remind the House of interprovincial transport of gas and oil, the possibility of moving grain by pipelines, all the way through to the operations of ferries in our country, air transport, trucking-the whole range of transport that falls under or is touched upon one way or another by federal regulation. It still needs the attention of this Chamber. Thirteen years is too long to achieve one-third of the required independence that will not only aid transportation so it is seen to be safe but to in fact be safe. The surface mode and marine mode remain to be dealt with.
I accept the work of Justice Dubin because it was necessary. His report was very much to the point and told Canadians of the horror story in flying. While pilots occasionally tell us that flying involves hours of boredom, the beginning of these flights hold moments of terror and there are always moments of terror at their end. The same is quite true for passengers except they are not quite as aware of the terror. That same terror still exists in the minds of people who travel on our trains, highways and ferries and in those who work on our ships.
If it has taken us 13 years or longer to achieve an independent commission with respect to air travel, I must ask if we must wait another 13 years for marine transport and then another 13 years for similar commissions with respect to surface transport. The Minister is correct that this new body
will provide a good learning experience for us in this country. However, we have had 13 years to learn. Indeed we have had 100 years to learn about transportation.
As far as removing any question of conflict of interest is concerned, we should be taking action today on the three primary modes of transportation in this country. I accept the fact that this legislation represents a first step. I am pleased to join with my colleague for Prince Edward-Hastings (Mr. Ellis) and my friend for Comox-Powell River (Mr. Skelly) in welcoming what I hope is just the first step. As I have suggested, if we must wait another 13 years for a similar piece of legislation dealing with marine safety, then what will become of the lessons that we will learn from Mr. Justice Hickman's inquiry into the Ocean Ranger disaster currently taking place in Newfoundland? Will we have to wait another ten years after his report before we determine that there is a need for independence of investigation in that area of transportation as it relates to safety, minimum requirements, construction, operation, repair and inspection?
We know what Judge Hugessen said in his report on the shipboard fire which occurred Christmas Eve, 1981. We know the contents of another judge's report with respect to the accident involving dangerous gases which occurred in urban Toronto approximately four years ago. Why has action not been taken on these recommendations? I am sure the Minister is aware of this concern because he has acknowledged the urgency to take action.
There are many questions to be asked. The Hon. Member for Comox-Powell River has related some areas with which he is concerned. He has stated his concern that members of the general aviation community in this country will not have an opportunity to deal with the issues in detail. I share that concern and I am also concerned about how the Board will be able to fulfil its mandate within the parameters of this Act within a completely independent milieu. I am not satisfied that it will happen.
Notwithstanding that, this Bill does represent a giant step toward safety in Canadian skies and I therefore must welcome this legislation. 1 hope that it will provide the experience to form the basis of similar pieces of legislation dealing with maritime and surface transportation matters. To do anything less on our part would be irresponsible.
Justice Dubin, in recommending this step, did not preclude and indeed suggested that similar legislation respecting the other two modes of transportation might very well produce the same type of thrust. My concern is that I do not want to wait another 12 years and another 12 years after that for similar legislation. I do not see any reason why we cannot establish an a priori independent body which would have that first responsibility in all areas.
When dealing with this legislation this afternoon, I hope we will have an opportunity to deal with it clause by clause so that I may ask questions that concern me. I was concerned about certain questions when I drafted a multimodal bill very similar to this legislation in the 1960s. I am sure those questions will
June 28, 1983

be answered in some depth today and I hope the Minister will be with us in committee this afternoon. Will he?


There will be good people answering your question.


We certainly want you and your experts as well. I think we will be able to clear up a number of questions about which we are concerned.
I do not see the need to delay this matter any longer because certain institutional groups in the general aviation community will not have a full opportunity to appear before us to make their views known. This does not concern me because I know that the institutional aviation groups in this country in general, from our major domestic carriers to the manufacturing and operational side, have been concerned about this matter for some time. There are very few measures in this Bill of which specific interested groups in the aviation community have not been made aware, have not helped develop or have not been consulted in their development. After consultation with the Provinces, I am satisfied that the intent of the Bill with respect to jurisdiction is acceptable to them.
I do have some concern about other investigative processes. For example, the Bill does not embrace the military. This could cause difficulty because if one area is excluded there may be a tendency to exclude other areas. I believe this should have been a priority. But this matter can be pursued in committee and experience may prove that the Bill is either correct or incorrect in the exclusivity.
It is important that we have taken the first step and I hope it will lead to increased awareness of aviation safety. I also hope this is a workable Bill which will form the basis for similar legislation in the near future which will cover marine and service transport matters. I suggest to the Minister that if he does not make a start quickly, as soon as we have a by-election in Central Nova and other events take place, whoever is the next Minister of Transport in this country will not live in peace until the legislation is in place.
In closing, may I just congratulate the Minister and his officials for having lost two of the children but having 