[ Translation]
Madam Speaker, the Subcommittee on Acid Rain of the Standing Committee on Fisheries and Forestry published its report in 1981. Among its recommendations, there are two which read, and I quote:
The Sub-committee recommends that Canada and the United States reach an agreement on the necessary legislation and mechanisms to substantially reduce transboundary air pollution particularly as it relates to acid rain, by the end of 1982.
The Sub-committee recommends that Governments, public interest groups, and individual Canadians in general explore and utilize all possible political, legal, administrative and media channels to ensure that acid rain-causing emissions originating in the United States are substantially reduced and that a Canada-U.S. agreement on the long-range transportation of air pollutants is signed by the end of 1982.
Madam Speaker, negotiations between Canada and the United States have failed, because although many years of research have already been done, our neighbours to the south insist that further research is necessary.
I would therefore ask Canadians to do everything they can to make Americans aware of this very serious problem, and to support the efforts of the Canadian Government. Canadians may be sure that private conversations, written statements or meetings will not be subject to censorship, unlike the NFB films.


Madam Speaker, I and other Manitobans were shocked to hear from a Winnipeg open line radio broadcast, the Peter Warren Show, on radio station CJOB, that the federal Government plans to eliminate 250 jobs in Winnipeg by closing down the air traffic control centre located there. These jobs are going to be relocated in Edmonton and Toronto.
Winnipeg has been an important centre of Canadian aviation for 40 years. The Winnipeg air traffic control office handles all aviation control functions for Saskatchewan, Manitoba, and northwest Ontario as far south as Sault Ste. Marie. Now that long and distinguished tradition is going to be forcibly terminated, ostensibly to avoid building a new control centre. The real reason, however, probably lies in a phrase used by a civil servant in discussing this matter. He said that "a greater federal presence was needed in Alberta." I find the implications of this remark deeply repugnant.
The loss of 250 jobs and the closing down of the air traffic control centre would have an extremely detrimental impact on Winnipeg's and Manitoba's economy. I have seen the federal Government repeatedly ignore Winnipeg's efforts to become more actively involved in Canada's growing aviation industry. This additional blow would openly confirm the suspicion shared by many Manitobans that the Government has absolutely no understanding of the skills and services the people of Manitoba have to offer. This move must be stopped.


Madam Speaker, I stand to draw attention to a persistent and increasing problem in the apple growing industry in Essex and Kent counties of Ontario. Given the extreme southwest location of these counties, the apple industry faces significantly different growing, climatic, and disease conditions than other regions of Ontario. These local growing conditions have resulted in adverse responses by many of the rootstocks and, therefore, the recommended rootstocks are proving to be totally undesirable in Essex and Kent counties.
Apple growers continue to suffer financial losses because of the lack of local performance and inadequate research information being supplied by the Departments of Agriculture, both provincially and federally. To rectify this problem, and to respond to the concerns of the growers, I urge the federal Department of Agriculture to take immediate steps to set up and finance a study at the Harrow Research Station. This study should adequately test the performance of the presently available varieties and rootstocks of apples, to determine their suitability for commercial use by the growers in these counties. The Department of Agriculture should also undertake to

March 4, 1983
recommend those varieties and rootstocks that are found to be best suited to the particular conditions in the area.


Madam Speaker, the federal Government has developed a set of guidelines affecting the placer mining industry in Yukon Territory which, if implemented, will bring tremendous hardship to this industry and further unemployment to the people of Yukon. In fact an Environment Canada impact study, which has yet to be released officially, shows that the implementation of these guidelines would cause 47 per cent of the placer mines in Yukon to close. Consequently the Environment Canada report suggests that these guidelines be modified for the good of all Yukoners.
This is obviously the reasonable approach, but it appears the Government is not interested in the reasonable approach. Not only does it refuse to release the impact study officially, but it is now editing and tinkering with the study in order to maintain the credibility of those officials who drafted these unworkable guidelines. Clearly, the Government should scrap the proposed guidelines altogether and develop alternatives which are both practical and acceptable to the placer miners. At the very least it should release all relevant materials for public scrutiny, not merely some doctored document designed to help some Ministers and bureaucrats save face.
This is a very important matter because, unlike certain members of the cabinet, the Yukon placer mining industry will have to adhere to both the spirit and the letter of the guidelines, once they are set down.


Madam Speaker, the Ontario Indian Fishing Agreement was signed on December 17, 1982, in Ottawa by the provincial Minister of Natural Resources and the five Ontario Indian organizations. The federal Government refused to sign on the grounds that the Agreement was unconstitutional. It has since come to light that both the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development (Mr. Munro) and the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans (Mr. De Bane) have indicated that they misunderstood the Agreement and that it is in fact not unconstitutional.
In September the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development committed himself to the principle of the Agreement, including 100 per cent funding of 20 Indian conservation officers to be trained and made responsible to the Minister of Natural Resources. At the December 17 meeting both federal Ministers undertook to conclude the Agreement as soon as
possible. They have reaffirmed through the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans their commitment to sign the Agreement. The Agreement has since been amended and sent to them. This was done on February 4. Although there was considerable public debate, the opposition to the signing of the Agreement was greatly reduced, to the point where, at a recent anglers' and hunters' convention, they endorsed the position of the chiefs of the Indian Bands.
It is necessary to go ahead with this before the fishing season starts. There is a constitutional conference coming up on Indian and Native Rights. It would be a gesture of good faith on the part of the Government if in advance of that conference it were to sign that Agreement which now appears to have almost total, if not total support, from all of the people most involved.


Madam Speaker, it is urgent and indeed essential that the federal Government take positive steps to promote the growth of research and development in the field of biotechnology. One manner in which this can be accomplished is through the formation of a House of Commons Standing Committee or Subcommittee on genetic engineering and biotechnology. Such a committee would regularly call on scientists and industrialists who are expert in these areas, for advice and direction in order to supply the Government with ongoing recommendations in this rapidly escalating field.
Second, I would urge the Government to reconsider its intention to turn down an application to host the proposed International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology which is being sponsored by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. Granted, such a centre would direct research and training in biotechnology toward the specific needs of developing countries, but this centre would be a world class research institute attracting scientists of international stature. Investment in such a project would have effective spin-offs for the biotechnology industry in Canada. It would be a catalyst for the application of science and technology in the numerous industries with a biological orientation, while at the same time it would give positive help to fill the social and economic needs of developing countries.


Madam Speaker, some years ago the then Member for Leeds noted for the first
March 4, 1983

time in this House the name of CBC producer Mark Starowicz in connection with the expelled KGB agent, Konstantin Geyvandov, who masqueraded in Ottawa as a Soviet journalist. Two years later the Attorney General of Ontario quoted in the Legislature an RCMP document according to which a Canadian media person over a period of five years was selling Geyvandov reports at clandestine meetings. Next day CBC producer Mark Starowicz identified himself as the person who, between 1970 and 1973, had accepted money for reports written for a Soviet correspondent in Ottawa.
Three months later Peter Worthington published excerpts from an RCMP document dated March 24, 1976, as well as this passage:
The RCMP report says Pravda's man in Ottawa, Geyvandov, was expelled from Canada after persuading a Canadian journalist to act on behalf of Soviet interests when reporting Canadian political events.
Mr. Worthington, as well as the Toronto Sun, were promptly charged under the Official Secrets Act. Needless to say, the mercenary agent of influence receiving rubles for services rendered was not charged.
I am strongly inclined to believe that the Canadian media person in the McMurtry statement and the Canadian journalist in the report referred to by Mr. Worthington are the same person. I wrote about it to the Solicitor General (Mr. Kaplan). He is reluctant to reveal the man's identity. In the meantime, CBC keeps on its payroll a senior executive who, by his own admission, was also on the payroll of a Soviet official and who, I strongly suspect, is the same person identified by the RCMP as acting on behalf of Soviet interests.
I do not believe at this stage that the Liberal Government with its track record-


Order.


Madam Speaker, the Government's latest broadcasting announcement contains a few new policy initiatives, some recognition of technological reality, and a whole lot of rhetoric designed to make policy inertia sound like dynamic action. Nowhere is that facade of dynamism more transparent than in the call of the Minister of Communications (Mr. Fox) for a new native peoples' thrust in broadcasting policy.
Two years ago next month, the CRTC granted the Council of Yukon Indians and the Dene Nation a licence to distribute radio and television services in the North via the Cancom satellite system. The CRTC made clear in that decision what everybody else already knew, that, if native broadcasting were going to exist, funding would have to be provided by the federal Government. The Government has had comprehensive
Oral Questions
funding proposals for native broadcasting in front of it for almost two years and has been apologizing for delays in acting on them for almost a year and a half.
The channels are there, the personnel have been trained, and the ideas and programs are ready to be developed. Let us cut out the rhetoric and provide native broadcasters with the longterm funds which they have been promised.


My question, Madam Speaker, in the absence of the Prime Minister and of the Secretary of State for External Affairs-there is not even a quarter of Cabinet here-is directed to the Minister of State for foreign affairs.
This Sunday, March 6, His Holiness the Pope, will visit El Salvador. The guerrilla or rebel movement there suggested or agreed to a ceasefire while the Pope was visiting El Salvador. The whole of Central America, of course, is a dangerous area. We have just seen the kind of obnoxious behaviour which is occurring in Guatemala just before his visit there. Has the Canadian Government made representations to the Government of El Salvador, which has refused to have a ceasefire on Sunday? Have we made representations urging it to do so? If we have not, why have we not? Are we intervening in the matter at all?
[ Translation]


Madam Speaker, the Hon. Member must know that the Canadian Government is extremely concerned about the situation in El Salvador and is showing a continuing interest in the subject. In fact, a few weeks ago, we received the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of El Salvador and informed him of our concern, especially with respect to the general human rights situation in his country.
Futhermore, as the Hon. Member may know, we have now submitted a draft resolution to the U.N. Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, in which we are supporting as much as possible the conclusions of the U.N. Special Attache on the human rights question in El Salvador, and we have tried to submit a resolution that would be endorsed by as many countries as possible in the international community.


Madam Speaker, my question was specifically about the visit of His Holiness,

March 4, 1983
Oral Questions
the Pope, to El Salvador this Sunday, and on whether the Canadian Government has taken any interest in his safety by making a representation to the Government of El Salvador that it declare a ceasefire while His Holiness is there, in response to the same suggestion from the guerrilla side. The Minister has not answered that, and I would like him to do so.
The Minister mentioned the resolution which Canada introduced at the U.N. Commission on Human Rights. There has been a wave of protest across the country about the fact that the resolution is weak. It was no teeth. It fails to call for any political dialogue between the Government of El Salvador and the rebel forces there. Why has the Government in its resolution not called for a political dialogue between the contending forces in El Salvador? This is the only way that human rights violations will cease. Why have we not done that? Are we opposed to such a dialogue? Are we urging such a dialogue on the United States? If the Minister would deal with both those issues, I would appreciate it.


Madam Speaker, regarding the U.N. resolution presented to the U.N. Commission on Human Rights, it is a draft resolution which we are negotiating with a number of other delegations. As far as appealing to the parties to initiate a political dialogue, we are certainly prepared to include that aspect in our resolution, and we are also prepared to appeal to the international community to cease all military aid to El Salvador. Therefore, as far as the first half of the question is concerned, namely, whether we have made any direct representation recently, urging a cease-fire during the Pope's visit to El Salvador, I can inform the Hon. Member that we are urging the Salvadorean parties to initiate a cease-fire, without specifying any particular events to justify doing so. The Pope's visit as such should not be grounds for bringing about a cease-fire which we have been seeking for quite some time.


Madam Speaker, I gather from the Minister's reply that we have not made representations to El Salvador in connection with the visit of His Holiness the Pope. I can assure the Minister that there are many hundreds of thousands of people in this country who are very concerned about the Pope's safety, and I think representations should be made today.
same treatment accorded to the Committee on North South Relations. Three months have passed and we have had no response to the recommendations, although the Prime Minister indicated he favoured our joining the OAS but he was just waiting for a report from the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
Can the Minister tell the House if the Government is going to observe that request by making a written response to the Subcommittee's recommendations, and schedule a debate in the House on the report? Further, what is the position on the OAS? Are we going to have an answer on the recommendations of the majority, in that area?


Madam Speaker, I am indeed aware of the contents of the report of the Sub-Committee of the Committee on External Affairs and National Defence, which examines Canada's policy on Latin America. After the report was published, it was said on several occasions, and in fact I myself made this clear, that we were very impressed with the excellent work done by the members of this committee. However, I am not in a position today to give exact dates for our response to the committee's report, but I think it would be reasonable to assume that such response will be forthcoming by the beginning of this summer.
* *
*


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Public Works regarding the sale of land at Mirabel. Mr. J. P. Goyer, head of the Canada Lands Company, has issued a notice to tenants of surplus Mirabel lands to the effect that those wishing to purchase the property they occupy must put down a 5 per cent deposit immediately and arrange for full payment within 30 days. If they do not, the deposit is lost. Can the Minister say if this is accurate?


Madam Speaker, I am not familiar with those facts. I will look into this and report.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary is directed to the same Minister. The final report of the Subcommittee on Canada's relations with Latin America and the Caribbean was tabled on November 30, 1982. The Minister will know that report asked the Government to make a written response to the Committee's recommendations and to schedule a day's debate in the House, the


Madam Speaker, I am amazed that the Minister who is responsible for Canada Lands is not aware of how those lands are being disposed of, since it has been brought up in this House so often. Does he feel that 30 days are an adequate amount of time for these tenants to arrange financing to purchase the property? Does he feel it is fair that these people will lose their deposit if they cannot arrange the financing within 30 days?
March 4, 1983


Madam Speaker, obviously I am not in favour of being unfair to anyone. However, I have to be cautious, because the last time the Hon. Member and his former Leader raised this issue, both of them were misinformed and I had to provide both of them with a legal opinion. 1 would like to check the facts before I try to answer the Hon. Member's allegations.


Madam Speaker, 1 think the Minister of Transport is well aware that the United States is holding thousands of Canadian tourists hostage in order to bail out Continental Airlines of the United States. Is the Minister also aware of the possible links this airline has with the CIA, the White House, and the U.S. Civil Aeronautics Board which cancelled Air Canada's discount seat fares and, if so, what is the Canadian Government going to do about it?


Madam Speaker, obviously I cannot interfere in American policies. I am aware of the power of Continental Airlines, and I am aware of the power of the American Government. But I am a realist, so we have been discussing this for a number of days. At eleven o'clock it was go; it 11:10 it was touch. We are working on it now. I am very attentive to the western interest and to CP Air's interest in that, and my western caucus is following me very closely.


You have nothing to lose, so you are gambling everything.


I am very cautious, particularly about the route that exists between Canada and Australia in the Pacific. That route has been developing for 20-odd years and we are not about to give it away. We are having discussions now and we hope that they will work.


Madam Speaker, as everyone knows, Continental Airlines wants to cut Canadian traffic to the Orient because it has lost business since the end of the Vietnam War.
1 know that negotiations are extremely sensitive at the moment, but I should like to know in greater detail what action the Canadian Government proposes to take to prevent United States authorities from interfering in Canadian airline policy and our foreign relations and treaties, and transport relations with Australia?
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, "interfering" is not really the right word. There is a border between Canada and the United States. It is undefended. We have to negotiate with the United States in order to ensure that trans-border routes are established between the two countries, and in order to maximize communications between the people of our two countries. This is terribly difficult because of the geography and the numbers involved. The population of the United States is ten times that of Canada; consequently, to the United States, Canadian points are but an extension of their hub and spoke system. To us, each of these routes is single; it has to be developed, it has to be fed, and it has to be viable.
Some Americans do not understand that too well, and I do not blame them. It is the right of a big power not to understand the rights of smaller powers. That is why, for a number of years now, we have been discussing this. We are now into the seventh round of discussions on air relationships with the Americans. We have failed, up to now. We feel that they do not understand our case, and they feel that we are dragging our feet.
This is a symbol of what can happen. In their instance they have tied a decision on Air Canada and American Airlines' special fares to a resolution of the question of Continental. We are being careful because, in the resolution of the Continental question, they might establish beach-heads or points of principle with which we do not want to live. That is why the negotiation is quite complicated. It is very difficult, but we hope that good sense will prevail and that people will be able to travel.


Madam Speaker, the Minister is too diplomatic to mention the fact that deep philosophical differences are involved as well. There is a difference between the regulation and protection of our airlines and the deregulation policy of the United States which has left many American airlines flat broke and in hock to the bank. I am not interested in saving Continental Airlines in order to save the Rockefellers, and neither are other Canadians.


Madam Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister to reassure the House that no beachheads will be established on the Canada-Australia line. If we allow U.S. airlines to siphon off Canadian traffic to Australia, how soon will United States authorities be up here trying to siphon off Canadian traffic to Europe?


Madam Speaker, I thank the Hon. Member for his advice. I had thought of a number of these things, if not all of them, before. The difficulty now is that we are trying to take three major points into account. First of all, there are the 100,000 people who had made plans to go to the United States to see Aunt Annie and Uncle Charles, and so on. We are mindful of that, and we are mindful of the route that I indicated, the Pacific

March 4, 1983
Oral Questions
CP Air route. Also we are mindful of the general mood, climate or atmosphere of Canada-United States relationships. We are trying to combine that, shake it well, and serve it dry.


Madam Speaker, I have a brief supplementary question for the Minister of Transport. Philosophy to one side for a moment, can the Minister tell those Canadians who are planning or hoping to travel later today whether or not they will be able to, and briefly can he indicate the nature of the proposal made by the United States late last night?


Madam Speaker, on the first question, I cannot really say. I think sometime after twelve, one or two o'clock, we will have to cut whatever it is that we cut.


Bait.


Cut bait. Let us say two o'clock, but the problem on Continental is that in the many conversations to which I have referred, with Mr. Harman, the Canadian negotiator, or I directly with Mr. Trent of the Transportation Department of the United States, reference was constantly made to mirror image. I understood that to mean that we would give Continental the equivalent or the mirror image of what Canada has on the Pacific. It is a strange mirror, because it tends to agrandize what it is supposed to reflect. They have been asking for much more than the mirror image. The name of the game has been to reduce that and bring it back to the normal job of a mirror, which is to reflect reality.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the same Minister. In view of the 100,000 Canadians who are on pins and needles with regard to their travel plans, and who must be very happy that the United States is our friend, not our enemy, will the Minister of Transport have his officials instigate negotiations once this immediate problem is resolved with the United States, to arrive at some kind of protocol whereby this kind of ham-fisted action will not occur again?


Madam Speaker, to speak very frankly and confidentially on this subject-


We won't say a word.


No, you don't. Traditionally, negotiating with the Americans has always been very complicated because power in the United States is divided among many people, agencies, departments and so on. It is always very complicated. If I look back 15 years, we have always had in the United States a number of people in the American administration or
in Congress who sympathized with Canada, who had a knowledge of it, who understood and made it a point of honour for them to understand our situation. Maybe through lack of effort on my part, or on our part generally, we do not find this commodity as often as we did in the past. The Ambassador is helping tremendously in establishing that good relationship.
In air transportation, because of this crisis on Continental we may have reached a number of them by constantly repeating that Canada is not the United States, that what is good for the United States is not necessarily good for Canada. They are not even sure their deregulation is good for the United States, so how can we go ahead and accept that? The present situation has given us plenty of opportunity to contact a great number of people in the United States. Maybe it will be a blessing in disguise, the fact that we have reached so many of them.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport in his capacity as Acting Prime Minister. Some time ago the President of the Treasury Board, who is responsible for the administration of freedom of information and, I gather, privacy, indicated that Bill C-43 would be proclaimed and put into law on April 1, 1983. Is that still the intention of the Government?


Madam Speaker, I apologize, but I do not know the answer to that. Perhaps my hon. friend could ask it again on Monday when the Ministers will be here.


Madam Speaker, 1 would like to ask the Minister another question with respect to Bill C-43. There are now public stories appearing in the public press about the nominations of the Government for the positions of Information Commissioner and Privacy Commissioner. It is important with respect to those two nominations that these matters not be dissipated in rumour, and that those people be appointed prior to April 1 which, as far as I know, is still the date the Government has in mind, and the Acting Prime Minister will check that.
Will he also undertake to consult with his colleagues and whatever officials are necessary in order to make the appropriate announcements at the earliest possible date prior to the proclamation of the statute, so that those individuals can be in place before that time?


Madam Speaker, I can assure the Hon. Member for Nepean-Carleton-in fact, he can check with his Parliamentary House
March 4, 1983

Leader-that I have already initiated negotiations with the representatives of the two Opposition parties, since the appointment of the Information Commissioner requires a joint resolution of the House of Commons and the Senate. I know that my counterpart in the Senate is doing the same. We are now at the consultation stage. Obviously, sooner or later a joint resolution will have to be presented in the House. Up to now, a number of Members have indicated that they were not necessarily opposed to the proposals but would like to express certain views.
However, our parliamentary schedule is pretty full. We have some very urgent bills that must be adopted before we consider representations on any other motion, so that as soon as we have dealt with the urgent legislation, and if we get a consensus in both the Senate and the House of Commons, we shall then table the appropriate joint resolution regarding this important appointment.


Madam Speaker, I have a couple of security matters which have been before the House before, that I would like to get cleared up. My first question is for the Minister of Justice in his role as Attorney General. Since November 23 last, when it was publicly announced that the matter had been placed in his hands, the Minister of Justice has been pleading ignorance about the case of Long Knife, the pseudonym for the ex-RCMP corporal who recently admitted selling out a potential Canadian double agent to the Soviets for more than $4,000. I do not know how much more bluntly, simply, or directly, I can put it to the Minister: Will James Morrison be charged or not?


Madam Speaker, I have to tell the Hon. Member that I have still not received a report from my Department on this matter. Until such time as the matter is brought before me, I am not in a position to be able to make a decision.


That is almost unbelievable, but I guess not.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Solicitor General. It is now over 18 months since the Gouzenko trancripts were released and we were told an internal departmental inquiry was underway which would report back to the House and to the Minister as to whether the actual exhibits and transcripts, the documentation of 30 years ago which Gouzenko took out of the Russian Embassy, should or should not be released. Will they be released, or will they not be released?
Oral Questions


Madam Speaker, as the Hon. Member indicated in his question, the transcripts have already been made public. The review process has turned its attention now to a collection of materials which are of great interest to the public that were generated by various Government Departments in the course of the hearings. These materials are contained, of course, right across the whole of the Government, not in one place. This inquiry, which I think is of great value and should be given priority, is underway now. As those documents are reviewed for the purpose of gathering them to make them public, the review will then turn its attention to the numerous exhibits to which the Hon. Member referred. It is a matter to which attention is being given.
If there were more resources available for allocations, it would go more quickly. But the job is being done, and it is being done seriously. I hope very shortly it will be possible to make public all the internal material generated within the Government in relation to the hearings, because there have been many requests for it.


Madam Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State of External Affairs 1 will direct my question to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce. As the Minister knows, his Government is hosting a conference in Ottawa starting on Monday, called "Hi Tech 83", to promote increased participation by Canadian manufacturers in foreign, defence, and related high-tech areas. The Government has refused to release information requested by Members of Parliament and has restricted their access to this conference. Will the Minister tell the House why such secrecy is being used, and what the Government is hiding?


It is the age of information.


Madam Speaker, in the absence of my colleague I will take notice of the question and I will try to get an answer back for the Hon. Member.


Madam Speaker, I will direct my supplementary question to the Minister of Transport in his capacity as Acting Prime Minister. Since the Government has invited to this secret conference not only U.S. military officials and Canadian trade commissioners from sixty posts abroad,

March 4, 1983
Oral Questions
including Chile, Argentina, South Korea, and the Phillipines- governments with shockingly bad records of vital repression against their own people-will the Minister tell us why the taxpayers' money is being used to promote arms sales abroad, and especially why the Government is promoting high-tech arms sales to such repressive governments as Chile, Argentina, South Korea, and the Phillipines? Will the Minister also tell us how this conference fits into U.S. military plans?


Madam Speaker, quite obviously I do not know the exact answer to this question, but a reflection comes to mind. If Canada were going to trade only with countries that were universally loved in Canada, Canada would not trade much. Presumably some of my friends in the New Democratic Party would probably indicate that we should break commercial relations with the United States quite regularly. That is my reflection for today. If you trade only with countries you love, you diminish singularly your chances of economic wealth. As different Canadians love and dislike different countries, the choice would be quite difficult to make.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for External Affairs or whomever will be taking his place in the House today. In view of the fact the Government feted and honoured in various ways the Foreign Minister from Nicaragua, does the Government plan to extend an invitation to President Majano of El Salvador to come to Canada to have some discussions, and present his point of view with respect to the crisis in that country, and, if so, has any overture been made?


Madam Speaker, as I said earlier today in my first reply, three weeks ago we met with the Deputy Minister of External Affairs of El Salvador for the purpose of continuing the dialogue with the authorities of this country. Our own Assistant Deputy Secretary for External Affairs went to El Salvador about two months ago, I believe it was last December, to pursue this dialogue with the Salvadorean authorities.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is for the same Minister. He must be well aware of the fact that aid in the millions of dollars is still being extended to Nicaragua, yet El Salvador, which has chosen the democratic route and plans a general election later
this year, in December, has been virtually cut off from all aid. Would the Minister indicate whether this matter is being reconsidered and, if not, how can he justify such aid to a socialistic country such as Nicaragua and no aid, to speak of, to a country that has opted for democracy?


Madam Speaker, the Hon. Member seems to have forgotten that fighting is going on at the present time inside Salvadorean territory, and we have every reason to believe that foreign military support is involved. Generally speaking, Canada's policy has always been to avoid any involvement with countries where armed conflicts or civil wars involve rebel movements and actual fighting. As far as aid to Nicaragua is concerned, I believe this country is among the poorest in the world, and that whatever its political affiliation, it has a stable government and its reconstruction plan needs the assistance of all undustrialized countries, and I believe that Canada is fulfilling its role in the international community as a responsible partner by providing assistance to this country.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State (External Relations) and is supplementary to the question put by the Member for York-Peel, which concerned an invitation sent to President Magana of El Salvador to visit Canada. If we intend to invite the real head of Government of El Salvador, I would suggest to the Minister of State that perhaps it would be better to invite General Garcia and Mr. Roberto Da Buisson, who are the two real bosses of El Salvador, not the President.


Madam Speaker, I think these two questions have amply demonstrated our problems in sending an invitation to El Salvador.


Madam Speaker, 1 have a question for the Minister of Finance respecting his Deputy Minister. Can he tell us whether his Deputy Minister received a reply to his Deputy Minister's memorandum of January 15, 1981, to his then Minister, respecting the Gillespie affair?
March 4, 1983


Madam Speaker, obviously this is a question which should be addressed to the Minister of Energy.


Cover up.


Madam Speaker, the Minister of Energy will recall that I asked him the other day whether there had been a reply to the request that the now Minister of Finance act or comment on the memorandum of January 15, 1981, from his then and present Deputy Minister, Mr. Mickey Cohen. The Minister, 1 am sure, is interested in knowing all of the details and revealing them to the House. Has he asked his colleague, the present Minister of Finance, whether that colleague acted on the advice given to him in the January 15, 1981, memorandum that there was an action in breach of the conflict of interest guidelines respecting Mr. Alastair Gillespie? What was the action taken by the present Minister of Finance?


Madam Speaker, I have checked this question of the Hon. Member and I think this note was mentioned on the memorandum. There was no discussion about it with the Minister and this note has not been followed up by anybody else.


Ping pong.


Madam Speaker, just so I can be clear about this, is the Minister telling us that the present Minister of Finance was advised on January 15 by his Deputy Minister, as indicated in a document tabled in this House, of dealings in breach of the conflict of interest guidelines, and that Minister did nothing about it? Is that what he is telling us?

Hon. Jean Chretien (Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources): Madam Speaker, that is not what I said. I said there was no discussion about it with the Minister and that the note that was in the dossier was not brought to his attention.


Madam Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. Manitobans generally were shocked to learn this morning of the proposed shut down of the air traffic control centre in Winnipeg. The services of that centre are to be relocated in both Toronto and Edmonton. On
Oral Questions
top of that there is the loss of some 250 jobs to the Province of Manitoba, more specifically to the City of Winnipeg. This proposed move cannot be allowed to happen at this time. Winnipeg has asked for a new control centre to be built, and six new control centres have been built across Canada. Could the Minister intervene to put a stop to this insane action which will severely damage the economy in Manitoba and also hurt the whole aviation industry in the Province?


Madam Speaker, I am very pleased to comfort my hon. friend for the weekend. I will read a note which I have just received. It states, "There is no talk by Transport Canada officials of a permanent move from Winnipeg. Stop. All that is being considered is a temporary relocation of controllers while asbestos problems are being resolved to protect controllers' own health."


Stop.


Stop.


Hear, hear!


Watch those stops.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question is also directed to the Minister of Transport. His answer, which he received just a few minutes ago in the form of that note, is reassuring. Can he indicate to the House the length of the temporary relocation, and will this "temporary relocation" be carried out in Edmonton and Winnipeg, as the information available to me has indicated? Lastly, if it is the case that there will be construction, as is my assumption from his answer, could he also indicate when the construction of this new terminal or facility will be started in Manitoba?


Got another telegram?


Madam Speaker, I cannot do that, but I will make sure that my hon. friend has the answer before the end of the morning. This asbestos situation has created problems in all airports. Taking it off walls, ceilings and floors has necessitated some adjustments. What is taking place in Winnipeg also took place in Ottawa some days ago. I will inform the Hon. Member of the exact number of days it will take to adjust to this necessity.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance who, on a

March 4, 1983
Oral Questions
number of occasions, has acknowledged that unemployment levels for this year will remain at very high levels. The Minister will know that if one factors in the number of people entering the job market for the first time this year, and recognizing the number of jobs that are being permanently lost, one will find that, simply to maintain the status quo, new jobs will have to be created to the extent of 5.5 per cent above the existing level.
We have been listening for many months now as the Minister has promised to take stimulative measures with regard to the economy by a variety of techniques. We were hoping to have a budget, first of all, at the end of February. Then we were hopeful that it would be in March. Now rumours are that the Minister is probably considering April. Will the Minister of Finance please give a clear message to the people of Canada on when he will make that budget statement so that we can begin the process of rebuilding the country?


Madam Speaker, I am certainly very eager to present a budget. I can indicate to you that if the House were to proceed expeditiously with the various Bills dealing with the Income Tax Act and borrowing authority, it would be easier to proceed with a budget shortly thereafter, but quite clearly the debate on those Bills is dragging. The debate has been proceeding for days and days and we still do not see the end. I can tell the Hon. Member that 1 am just as eager to introduce a budget as he is eager to hear one.


Produce.


We will see when it can be done, when it will be convenient for all concerned.


Madam Speaker, I do not suppose that the Hon. Member is suggesting that the Opposition is holding up any of the Bills. When the Government is asking for $19 billion after only two or three days of discussion, I certainly do not think it amounts to holding up any Bill.


Madam Speaker, my supplementary question, which is directed to the Minister of Finance, relates to the action of the Royal Bank of Canada. The Minister will probably be one of the most able in the House to appreciate the value of the family farm, having himself been part of a family which has lived on the land for many generations. Does the Minister support the new policy of the Royal Bank of Canada whereby it will foreclose on a family farm and will then be prepared to lease or rent the land back to its original owner as a way of adjusting to these difficult times?


Madam Speaker, it is not so much a matter of whether I support or oppose the policy; rather, it is a matter of policy decided by a private institution. What I have noticed from the press reports on this plan of the Royal Bank is that it has indeed been very well received by some spokesmen for the agricultural and farming
community who said that this would at least ensure that families would remain on the farm. They have hoped that there would be some arrangement whereby these families could return to their farms when their financial situation improves, rather than having them removed from the farms they have occupied for many years, and sometimes for generations.
Some farming community spokesmen have noted that the Royal Bank has acted in a very humane way compared to the alternative of removing the people from the farms they have occupied for years. It is a matter of judgment, and 1 will not stand up here and condemn the Royal Bank for doing this. It is a matter for people to decide as to whether they would rather have the Bank exercise its full right rather than lease back the farms to the families concerned. Obviously and ideally, my objective is to reduce interest rates in this country and ease the interest rate burden on farmers and small-businessmen and others. The Hon. Member will have noticed that yesterday the Bank of Canada rate was the lowest in four and a half years. That is action which will benefit the farmers as well as everyone else in the community, and we will proceed with the kind of action which 1 hope will lead to lower interest rates and make things easier for everyone.


Hear, hear!


Madam Speaker, I have received representations from my constituency with respect to the closing date for applications for the various elements of the Summer Canada Program. I suppose I would like to address my question to the Acting Prime Minister of the day and request that he draw the fact to the attention of the Minister of Employment and Immigration that there has been no advertising of this Program and its closing date in many rural areas. I would ask whether the Minister would extend the date for receiving eligible applications for all elements of the Program for at least two additional weeks?


Madam Speaker, I can inform the Hon. Member that many Government Members have also made representations to the Minister of Employment and Immigration regarding this possibility. The proposal has been analyzed within the Department and we are certainly going to examine it and consider the feasibility of extending the deadline for a few days after March 4. I can inform the Hon. Member right now that departmental employees across Canada are considering this possibility and that projects will be accepted after March 4.
March 4, 1983


Mir. Fred McCain (Carleton-Charlotte): Madam Speaker, 1 would like to ask a supplementary question. The officials of the Department in the various areas of Canada cannot act unilaterally and must have authority from the Minister in charge because he is the one over whose signature the regulations and directives have come down to these people. Without ministerial authority and prompt ministerial decision, it will be impossible for many deserving people to take advantage of the various elements of this program. I would urge the Minister to act immediately by extending the closing date by a minimum of two weeks so that the proper publicity and application opportunity may take place. Would he please make that representation to the Minister?
Madam Speaker, 1 will try to answer the Hon. Member's question more slowly this time. I said just now that representations had been made to the Department and that employees of the Department of Employment and Immigration across Canada were informed that they would be able to accept applications after March 4.


Madam Speaker, it has been announced that there is to be some doubling up of prisoners who are inmates in the cells of the Edmonton Institution. To what extent is it intended that this be carried out? Is the Minister satisfied that it is proper policy, in view of the objections of both the guards and the inmates?


Madam Speaker, I think that reports have greatly exaggerated the amount of doubling which is occurring in the institution.


Oh?


There are close to 11,000 inmates in federal penitentiaries. Less than 400 are in double cells. This compares very favourably with any other penitentiary or correctional system in our country. It is certainly much better than that found in Provinces and which I have viewed directly. Also, we have a far lower crowding problem, if I can put it that way, than any system at all in the United States. Still, I am not happy about it. I am looking for alternative ways of being able to maintain our policy of having a separate cell for every inmate.
The difficulty now is that there has been a rapid increase in the inmate population, which is really the result of the imposition of longer sentences and of a far more conservative policy
House of Commons
by the National Parole Board than has ever existed in the past. Inmates who apply for parole are being released at only one-half the rate that they were being released ten years ago.
There is a construction program under way. It will not provide an immediate solution because we are not in a position to open any of these institutions in the immediate short term. I am concerned about the problem; I am looking for solutions, and it is not my intention to institute double-bunking as a permanent feature of the federal penitentiary system.


Madam Speaker, my question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister and concerns another federal institution in this country, the other place. It is based on a rumour emanating from a highly placed source in this House that Mr. Alastair Gillespie is being appointed to the Senate. Could the Acting Prime Minister rise at once and reassure this House and the country at large that there is absolutely no foundation to this rumour?


Madam Speaker, it is well known that under any regime, that of the Hon. Member for Yellowhead as well as this one, appointments to the Senate are the exclusive prerogative of the Prime Minister, and comments on those appointments are not particularly welcomed.


Order, please. It is my duty to inform the House that the Governor in Council has appointed Marcel Pelletier, Q.C., as Law Clerk and Parliamentary Counsel and P. A. C. Laundy and Robert Marleau as Clerk Assistants of the House of Commons.
I must say that I am very sorry to see Mr. Pelletier leave the Office of the House, where he worked for thirteen years. I wish to express my warm appreciation for the services he has rendered to the House of Commons of Canada. His compe