that Bill C-132, an Act to amend the Family Allowances Act, 1973, be read the third time and do pass.
She said: Mr. Speaker, Bill C-132, which is in front of us today for a third and final reading, contains only one provision, which is to limit to 6 per cent in 1983 and 5 per cent in 1984 the Family Allowances indexation. It is not a difficult amendment to explain in terms of the Family Allowances program, but I wish to emphasize that it should be viewed in the context of the complete six and five program.
The measures announced in the budget of June, 1982, which related to the six and five program, have only one specific purpose, which is to bring down inflation to 6 per cent and to 5 per cent. That is the objective of Bill C-132. I insist on that because many distortions have been nurtured during the debate of this Bill. This means, technically, that all Family Allowances which were at $26.91 per month in December last, except in Quebec and Alberta where they vary the federal rate, will be $28.52 in 1983. Next year, most probably, if inflation remains at 5 per cent or higher, it will be $29.95. So there is an increase in each of the years, but it is less of an increase than anticipated.
There is something very deeply dishonest in not acknowledging that this Bill caps Family Allowances, but the next Bill on the Order Paper, Bill C-139, a tax Bill, increases by $50 the Child Tax Credit on top of the full indexation, to be paid to mothers this spring. Those in need, therefore, and in this case I must say perhaps more than those really in need, namely two-thirds of all the mothers in Canada, those who get a partial or total Child Tax Credit, will receive an additional full $50 to make up for the loss in indexation of Family Allowances.
This I want to make very clear. It is not written in this Bill because to achieve that we have to change another Act, the Income Tax Act. That is why this Bill deals only with one Act, as per the custom. The next Bill, Bill C-139, gives the additional special $50 to cover the relative loss of indexation for the two coming years, 1983 and 1984.
Speaking of the Child Tax Credit, I believe Hon. Members, and surely all mothers, will be interested in certain information
I have just received from the National Anti-Poverty Organization, usually referred to as NAPO. NAPO is almost the only national organization still in existence which represents the lower income people of our society and, of course, many of them are women, particularly mothers. As some Hon. Members may recall, I asked the representatives of NAPO at our last meeting what the reaction of their members would be to the possibility of delivering the Child Tax Credit monthly, or four times a year, instead of annually as we do right now.
When the program was created, many professionals, especially in the field of social services, joined the ranks of many Members of the House of Commons in insisting on the Child Tax Credit, which at that time was $200 a year, being distributed on a monthly basis. Both I and the Government resisted that because it seemed to me that one of the characteristics of poverty is never being able to get out of it because of daily expenditures eroding any savings that can be made.
Once a year a big amount of money, originally $200 for one child, possibly $600 for three children, which now means close to $1,000 non-taxable, is exactly what a mother living in poverty can never reach. I was told, and one just has to read the speeches at the time in this House, that they would abuse that money. All sorts of innuendos or direct accusations, I must say, were made. They would drink it away, etc. They would waste it. But we know mothers and they have used that money for special needs in their budget. It could have been that some would say they will buy a bicycle for the child. Well, good, that is exactly what the purpose is. It is for the good, the well-being, of children in the family.
I thought, Mr. Speaker, since the Child Tax Credit is now a much bigger sum of money, almost double what it was, and since times are tougher economically, what would mothers in need now prefer? I apologize to Canadian mothers who are not at the lower end of the scale for not having asked them through a national survey, but I thought I should start with those most in need who I think are a priority amongst the priorities. I received information from NAPO, which they made public very recently, and it gives me the clear preference of families saying that they, of course, want to keep the Child Tax Credit but they want to keep it annually. They do not want, for different reasons explained to me, to see it distributed over several payments a year.
So 1 just want to inform Members that I will therefore not develop any plan for distributing the Child Tax Credit differently. At a later date we will see if any new need develops, but

February 10, 1983
Family Allowances Act, 1973
for the time being I want to confirm to all mothers that the Child Tax Credit will remain an annual payment and not be distributed monthly or every three months.
I say that, and I have to link the Child Tax Credit to the Family Allowance because it is linked in fact although not legislatively speaking, because many Members opposite-I must say this to my great disappointment because I do not accept that type of politics; I think it is really dishonest-have used unbelievable expressions in English-the speeches were all in English-saying that we were taking away food from the mouths of children, taking away the bottle of milk from children, and so on and so forth.
I will not waste my time or the time of anyone around me by listing all the stupidities and literary abuses I have heard in this House on capping the Family Allowances, but 1 would like to say that no one is a fool and we do see the game being played. I hope the public also sees it. We are not doing any of that.
For the first month of the year mothers received more money but a little less than anticipated. They had a loss of about $1.40 a month on the Family Allowance cheque, my Parliamentary Secretary confirms to me, and that is true. They had an increase but a relative loss for the first month of the year. But then the special increase in the Child Tax Credit will offset all of that; they will have it in their hands before the other months of the six and five program. We are therefore not taking away a penny from two-thirds of all Canadian families with children. That means all people with the lowest income and many, many people with middle-class incomes as well. All young couples who have not yet reached a higher socioeconomic group will receive that benefit.
I have met Members of Parliament whose wives are receiving these Child Tax Credits because they have many children. I have met journalists in the same category. There are many people in this environment which I would not qualify as being in poverty. These people do receive at least a partial payment of the Child Tax Credit, because two-thirds of Canadian mothers do. If anyone should try to make the public believe, like the Conservatives in particular do, that food is taken away from the table, that is such an abuse and exaggeration that 1 suppose it speaks for itself. I could go on, but I do not believe it is necessary.
I want to explain, in this final stage of debate on Bill C-132, what we are attempting to do, which is to reduce inflation, not savings, as many Members have tried to say. It is easy to prove, and I have proved it in committee, because the sums saved are not that extraordinary. That was not the intention. The intention was to have a package of measures involving as many Canadians as possible to mobilize ourselves to fight inflation. It is succeeding. There is no reason not to keep our word and enforce the various pieces of legislation needed. No one can prove one way or another, as I said at the Senate committee, that this particular measure, even the complete set of Government measures regarding the six and five program,
have been the cause of bringing down inflation. Nobody can prove that because economic signs are so controversial and made up of so many schools of thought. But nobody can disprove it either.
One thing is sure. We did take action. It has mobilized Canadians, there is no doubt about that, as statistics on credit cards have proven. People have started changing their consumer patterns and paying back their debts instead of living above their means. We have all done that, but now something has changed. Where this Bill fits exactly is impossible to demonstrate but it is part of a package that seems to have worked.
One thing is important, and that is the only one that counts with many mothers. A basket of food now costs less than it did last year, because inflation is being brought down. That means that mothers, despite not receiving the full indexation, will be compensated because of the increase in the value of their dollars.
That is the objective that I pursued for the common good through the programs for which I am directly responsible. There was surely a full and frank discussion of these objectives. People have been aware of the exact figures involved for months.
I will finish by saying that the success of the six and five program is crucial to the well-being of Canadians, in this particular case mothers of families, and I think that is why that objective is so easy for me to defend, despite the appearance of being unpleasant.


Mr. Speaker, I have several questions, which I will put one at a time. The first question to the Minister is that with this change in the law I believe revenue is being cut out for those children who are in institutional or public care. Does the Minister have any compensation plan to provide more money to those kinds of institutions?


Mr. Speaker, no. I said earlier, and that is why I did not repeat it this morning, that this Bill does not affect children receiving what is called a Special Allowance, which means children below the age of 18 who are maintained by Government institutions. None of them will be affected. They will receive the full increase in the cost of living.


Mr. Speaker, why did the Minister allow Family Allowance cheques to go out with the indexing already reduced to 6 per cent when the Bill had not been passed and there was no parliamentary sanction for the action? Does she not agree that this was unethical and insulting to mothers and children as well as being illegal? Also I would like to know why this was done just for this Bill and not for the other six and five Bills as well.


Mr. Speaker, it was surely not unethical, nor was it illegal. I explained that as well, and I am sorry if I did not repeat it today. In cases like this-and this happens all the time for programs which are translated into direct cheques for people-we take the legal advice of the Department of Justice.
February 10, 1983

According to the nature of existing legislation, the answer given by Justice is one way or another. Because 1 am not a lawyer 1 cannot give the exact details which were already given in committee, but because of the drafting of existing legislation concerning seniors, we could not apply the capping before Parliament had changed the exact amount of what would have to be paid. The way the Family Allowance legislation is written, the clear advice of Justice was different and indicated that the payment could be made properly right at the start.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister in her presentation this morning indicated that in relation to the six and five program as it applies to Family Allowance under the provision of Bill C-132 it cannot be supported on the grounds that the Bill has lowered the inflation rate in Canada. She indicated very clearly that she could not prove that the effect of this provision was to decrease inflation. She added, of course, that neither could it be proved that it did not add to inflation.
Is there not an onus or obligation upon her and her Government that presented this measure to the House of Commons and applied this measure to the children of Canada to stand here and say that it does reduce inflation and that is why they are putting it forward? That was the claim of the budget which announced in advance the six and five program. That was the claim of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Lalonde) that this would reduce inflation. Now the Minister stands in the House of Commons and says that she does not know whether it does or not. Is that justification for this measure which is taking money out of the pockets of Canadian families, over three million Canadian families and six million Canadian children? Now she says that she does not know whether or not it is doing any good.


Mr. Speaker, the Member is playing unintelligent partisan politics. He very often does that. I do not know why he does that. He has interpreted instead of listening to what I said. I come from research; that is the training I received. I am unable to play the sort of mean game he would like me to play, and I will not. I will just repeat. What I have said is that economists will not be able to demonstrate the direct link. I believe there was one. That is why I subscribed to and supported entirely the six and five program. I could explain it in greater detail to him, but surely he is intelligent enough to grasp that.


Mr. Speaker, it is interesting that whenever someone disagrees with the Minister they are partisan, but she is always objective and never partisan! The Minister tried to imply that the ill-effects of the capping of the indexation will be dealt with and that there will not be very serious ill-effects because of the extra $50 that will be given in the form of the Child Tax Credit.
Is it not true that the $50 extra Child Tax Credit is a one-shot affair? The capping of the indexation at six and Five for the next two years will mean that if and when-and I say "if'
Family Allowances Act, 1973
because if the Government can change the rules once it can again-full indexation begins two years from now, the base from which the indexing of Family Allowance benefits will start then will be substantially lower than it would have been without capping. Beginning from that lower base, the amount paid in Family Allowances every month for the entire period the mother is entitled to receive the Family Allowance for her children over the period of 16 or 18 years will be very much less than it would have been if there had been no indexation, despite the $50 Child Tax Credit.


Mr. Speaker, concerning the $50 first, that sum will be given in one sum through this spring's income tax returns. But it does amount to the total needed, probably a little more, over the two years 1983 and 1984, to cover the loss in indexation. In other words, mothers will have it beforehand in the family budget. That is the reason. It is fiscally distributed over two years as an expense. It is split over two years as an expense, I think, but that is an accounting procedure and does not affect the mothers' cheques.
As for the second more basic question, the fact stated by the Hon. Member is correct. We said that, but not in the dimension he expresses. If indexation compared to real inflation is reduced, the base will be reduced slightly. The Hon. Member said "enormously" and he gives the subsequent 18 or 20 years as a reference, but he is forgetting something. He and his party always use seven-month-old figures instead of the more recent figures reflecting inflation.


Why don't you publish the new figures, then?


When we introduced that measure seven months ago, we thought inflation would be around 11 per cent. Therefore, mothers receiving only 6 per cent indexation would lose about 5 per cent. But they are not losing more than 1.2 per cent, or something in that vicinity, because in that seven months inflation came down a great deal.
A few minutes ago I was a witness at a Senate committee hearing regarding seniors, so I have the figure of anticipated inflation which should apply to this Bill as well. I think it was for the fall of 1984. The figure was below 5 per cent. In fact, the figure I quoted was 4.8 per cent. Therefore, there is no need to say that mothers will lose a penny. They will receive full indexation next year. That has to be verified monthly according to the variations in inflation. Right now inflation is coming down. Therefore, a loss in the base exists, but it is very slight because inflation has already declined. There is a loss in the base but a very small one. Next year it is possible not one penny will be lost.


Mr. Speaker, I hope to be able to ask the Minister a couple more questions but I guess there is no value in asking short questions because we move on to longer ones and then we do not have a second round. We can all learn from that.

February 10, 1983
Family Allowances Act, 1973
The Minister described the Opposition in such words as "dishonourable" and "unbelievable". I suggest to Canadians watching today that by the time the debate is over they can judge for themselves who is trying to be dishonest and who is trying to be unbelievable.
When you cut through this legislation and the history of the Liberal Party in the last six years, Mr. Speaker, you come to an inescapable conclusion. The economic support provided by the Government of Canada to families through the tax system, the Child Tax Credit, the income tax deduction and the Family Allowance, has been shifted away from the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Miss Begin) to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Lalonde).
As I stand here today contemplating the fact that the Liberal Party will pass this legislation later this day and that they have already acted as though it were passed-whether it is legal or illegal we will probably never discover-I know with a sense of certainty that about 60 per cent of the support for families will be coming from the Minister of Finance. The legislation which affects that will be examined by the economic committee of this House, and those Members who serve on the Standing Committee on Health, Welfare and Social Affairs will only be examining 40 per cent of that support. That has been the trend line over the last six years.
If you go back far enough in history, it was the Minister of National Health and Welfare and the standing committee which determined the level of support for families with children. I feel very uncomfortable, and every Member of this House should feel the same way, that we are passing over control in a legislative sense to the Minister of Finance rather than to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. I might suggest that different people serve on those committees and they have different interests. We are continuing to set a very dangerous precedent.
We tend to treat this as an isolated piece of legislation, something that is happening in January and February of 1983. I remind Members of this House and the Minister of National Health and Welfare that, under her stewardship and the stewardship of the Cabinet, in the year 1976 indexing of Family Allowances was suspended by the Liberal Government. The base of the Family Allowance was eroded in 1976 by a majority vote of Liberal Members in this House.
I remind the Members of this House that in 1978 the Family Allowance had grown to $28 per child. In 1978 the Liberal Government pushed through a Bill to reduce the Family Allowance to $20. They transferred that $8 to the control of the Minister of Finance. They took it out of the hands of the Minister of National Health and Welfare and the Standing Committee.
I stood in this House in late 1982, four years after that 25 per cent reduction in Family Allowances in 1978, and I stand in this House today recognizing that we are being encouraged by the Minister of National Health and Welfare to erode the Family Allowance even further by passing this legislation. I
suggest to the Members of this House that they might be well advised to consider the future. Do we really want a Minister of Finance determining family social policy in this country? Do we really want that Committee of this House to determine what family policy should be? I say with all the sincerity I can muster that I do not want that and my Party does not want that. We do not think that is in the best interests of the Canadian people.
After this Bill passed second reading stage in this House, we received it in Committee in December. The Liberal majority on that Committee made it patently obvious that they would use their majority to ram the Bill through Committee in a very short period of time.
We debate this Bill for one day in this House because it is under closure. The Liberal majority has silenced the Members of this House of Commons. They have denied us our opportunity to exercise freedom of speech in this Chamber through the use of closure on this Bill and the two pension Bills. What is not apparent to the Canadian public is that the Liberals did the same thing in Committee. They used their majority to push this Bill through Committee and back to this Chamber in a hurry.
What happens when you push a piece of legislation through Committee in a hurry is that you are restricted in the number of people you can hear as witnesses. Members of Parliament are denied the right to examine public views on whether it is a positive or negative piece of legislation. On each of these Bills which cut pensions to senior citizens of this country and support for families, the Liberal Government has used closure to cut off debate in the House of Commons and has used its majority in Committee to deny Canadians the opportunity to be heard.
That is an abomination of the democratic principle. It speaks to the continued attempts of this Government over three years to ram a Constitution down our throats without adequate public examination, to ram through an omnibus piece of energy legislation on which we had to ring the bells for two weeks, simply for democracy and simply to be heard. They tried to ram through two MacEachen budgets which were disastrous for this country. We see it time and again.
We have a Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) and a Cabinet which do not believe that the voters of this country have sent to this Chamber people who care, people who work for others and should be listened to. Government Members pay absolutely no attention to a contrary view unless you hit them over the head with a two-by-four. You have to hit them again and again or they do not even consider the logic of your argument or the argument of the Canadian public.
In those brief days when the Bill was before the Committee, we did hear from some witnesses. I wish to remind Hon. Members of the categories of those witnesses and the comments they made regarding this legislation. We heard from the National Action Committee, a group in Ottawa which represents women all across the country. Their message was clear: "Don't pass this piece of legislation".
February 10, 1983

We heard also from labour union groups. The message was the same. The labour unions called these three Bills perverse, perverse in the sense that they would accomplish the opposite of what was needed in this country at this time.
On this piece of legislation we heard from a group from Ottawa who have joined together in a poverty group. They came as witnesses before Government and Members of Parliament on behalf of Canadians who live below the poverty line. Their message was very clear: "Don't pass this piece of legislation".
It is wise for Members to be reminded, and those who were not in Committee may not have heard about it, that the poverty group told us that they had put in place in the City of Ottawa a transportation system, cars and buses, to take those on low income, those below the poverty line, to known grocery stores in the City of Otawa in order that they can get groceries for their children at the lowest possible price. They stated that if they put that transportation system in place the day before the Family Allowance cheque arrived, they would not have any customers. They very deliberately put that transportation system in place for the day after the Family Allowance cheques arrive. That is the point at which single mothers and low-income earners have cash in their hands and can go to a grocery store and buy the kind of nutritions food which their children need to have an equal chance of growing up healthy, of being able to have the energy to participate in school activities, to study and to succeed.
For the Minister to stand in the Flouse and say: "I am the defender of children, and it is my decision and that of the Liberal Party of Canada to take some money out of those monthly cheques", which are used to buy food, and to lump it into a sum which occurs one time only, an extra $50 one-time only, not paid every year for the next 50 years, and then to say: "We have done nothing to hurt the poverty-stricken people in this country", is pure, unadulterated nonsense. When one is discussing a reduction of $1.40 a month, for a mother with two children it amounts to $2.80 a month, and that is a big start on providing transportation or a bus pass. That amount buys a lot of macaroni and cheese or provides three or four litres of milk a month. If a mother has four children, it means the loss of $5.60, which will buy even more. Throughout the lifetime of those children, whatever age they are today, until they reach the age of 18 this piece of legislation will affect their parents' income and ability to buy milk, bread and other food.
This is the third time in six years that the Government has done this. It did it in 1976, in 1978 and now in 1983. We have a policy shift which is significant, important and not well understood. We get nothing but bafflegab from the Minister of National Health and Welfare. She is taking family policies, support for children, and she is saying: "I do not want to have very much to do with them as Minister of National Health and Welfare; I prefer the Finance Minister to be the champion of children in this country".
Family Allowances Act, 1973
In my time in this House I have watched Liberal cabinets form and reform, and I have yet to see a Minister of Finance that I would want in charge of family policy in this country. I have yet to see an economic committee that I would want to see in charge of family policy. The proper place for it is in the portfolio of the Minister of National Health and Welfare and in Standing Committee on National Health and Welfare. We are abrogating our responsibility to Canadian children and families if we lend our vote and our voices to the transfer of that responsibility from the Department of National Health and Welfare to the Department of Finance. All one must do is review Canadian history and the record of Ministers of Finance in this country. Ministers of Finance do a very important job and have a very important responsibility, but they will not have the time to give the attention to the development of family policy that it deserves.
We have one day left in which to debate this legislation. This very day is the last opportunity for Members of the Liberal Party who have a social conscience, who believe in social justice, to stand in this Chamber and tell their Cabinet that it is on the wrong path and that, in a time of economic difficulty, one does not attack people who live at or near the poverty line. We have done this twice in the last two weeks. Liberal Members have stood in this House and made life more difficult for the pensioners of Canada. Last Thursday evening, one week ago, Liberal Members stood in this House and said that all senior citizens who make $750 a month or more will have their incomes cut. On Monday of this week, they wanted to pay one man, Donald Macdonald, $800 a day, yet they want to cut income from every pensioner who makes $750 a month. That is a perversion of what this place and this country is all about.
Before I resume my seat, I will move a motion, a procedural motion, which, simply stated, proposes that this piece of legislation be considered six months from now rather than today. It is called a six month hoist and effectively makes a public statement without causing a Government to collapse or causing a general election. It is simply a means whereby people of conscience in this Chamber can stand up and send the message to the Cabinet that they do not applaud this piece of legislation, that they do not agree with the direction it has taken. I encourage Members of the Liberal Party to stand up and support that motion.
What I would prefer is that Members of the Liberal Party stand up during the vote at third reading stage and turn the Bill down, saying: "We will not stand for it; we will not tolerate it". I would prefer to put the issue to the Canadian public. I stood in this Chamber last Thursday and said that every taxpayer I know would contribute 15 cents a month to the federal treasury simply to stop the Government from cutting money from pensioners, and I believe it. I have yet to encounter a taxpayer who would not be willing to pay 15 cents a month if he or she knew that the Government would not cut money from the cheques of pensioners.
I say to Hon. Members opposite that Canadian taxpayers believe in children and in helping those in poverty. They should

February 10, 1983
Family Allowances Act, 1973
understand the Minister's own testimony in Committee. The Minister came to Committee and told us that we have now slipped into a system, which she has largely created, where one receives maximum support for one's child if one's gross income is approximately $40,000 a year. If one's gross income is $40,000 a year, all of the pieces of legislation in place will give support of about $800 per child. If one's gross income is $12,000, it will be closer to $700 per child. We have a system which peaks at a gross income of $40,000. I think the taxpayers of this country would prefer that those people with incomes of $12,000 received more for their children than those with incomes of $40,000.


Hear, hear!


This Party believes in that kind of a system, and it is incredible that so many Members of the Liberal Party do not. It is incredible that so many Hon. Members will stand in this Chamber later this day and vote for a piece of legislation, followed by the next one, Bill C-139, which would guarantee that those with gross incomes of $40,000 would receive the most from the tax and benefits system for their children, not those with incomes of $10,000, $12,000 or $16,000. That most clearly exemplifies the fact that we have a Government which has gone absolutely berserk in terms of its social and spending priorities.
I would like to repeat my plea. I have an amendment to move, and the force of that amendment would simply be a signal to Cabinet that this Chamber and all the Members in it have had enough of this perversity. It is time to reconsider the social priorities and do what is just and right. It is time to bring that perversity to a halt.
Therefore, I move, seconded by the Hon. Member for Oxford (Mr. Halliday):
That the motion be amended by deleting all the words after the word "that" and substituting the following therefor:
"Bill C-132, an Act to amend the Family Allowances Act, 1973, be not now
read a third time, but that it be read a third time this day six months hence".


Hear, hear!


At
this time I should inform the House that there is a ten-minute period in which the Hon. Member, who has just taken his seat, can be questioned, but first I will read the motion.
There is an amendment to the order for third reading of Bill C-132 as follows: moved by Mr. Hawkes, seconded by Mr. Halliday:
That the motion be amended by deleting all the words after the word "that" and substituting the following therefor:
"Bill C-132, an Act to amend the Family Allowances Act, 1973, be not now
read a third time but that it be read a third time this day six months hence".


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, I wonder if the Hon. Member would explain how you can have "this day" one year hence?


apologize, that is the Chair's fault. The motion reads "that it be read a third time this day six months hence". I might say to the Parliamentary Secretary that that is a standard motion taken directly from Beauchesne.
At this point we have the ten-minute question period. Are there any Hon. Members who wish to question the Hon. Member?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Hon. Member for Calgary West (Mr. Hawkes), since he has been the key spokesperson for the Conservative Party on this Bill, what the official policy is of the Conservative Party regarding universality as it applies to Family Allowances. We are very confused about this because when the Tory Government was in power, the Minister of National Health and Welfare at that time refused to give any commitment at all to universal Family Allowances. I understand that there was a poll taken of Conservative Members and 62 per cent of the Hon. Members wanted to dismantle universal Family Allowances and reduce Family Allowances. I would like to hear now officially on behalf of the Conservative Party what its position is on universal Family Allowances. Are they for them or against them?


Mr. Speaker, this particular piece of legislation is an attack on the principle of universality and we are voting against it. Every speech we have made is in accordance with that principle. I guess the translation of the truth which has come out of the New Democratic Party's propaganda machine, and did so about three and a half years ago when the then Minister of National Health and Welfare was the Hon. David Crombie, is a piece of propaganda which has lived on with a sense of truth in the NDP.
I believe it is wise to review the fact that in Committee in the month of December, the current Minister of National Health and Welfare gave us a sense of the contribution to family and child care in this country which comes from the tax deduction, the Family Allowances and the Child Tax Credit. That particular presentation made it crystal clear that the support system peaks at $40,000 a year.
I would remind the NDP that a study was put in place by the Conservative Minister of National Health and Welfare, and what the Minister did was to ask the officials in the Department to conduct a study of the economic support for children, all parts of the system, so that we would have a data base which a committee of Parliament could look at and make recommendations to the Minister.
The principles involved in that approach are, first, the gathering of facts; second, a belief that Parliamentarians can deal with the facts, that they will do it with sensitivity, and they will make recommendations to a Minister instead of having a Government where the Minister says-


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, could the rule of relevance apply in asking the Hon. Member to answer the Hon. Member's question, which was: What is the official policy of the Tory Party with regard to universality?
February 10, 1983


Mr. Speaker, I have made several speeches on this Bill here and in Committee where in I pointed out that of the three parts of the system, the only one which delivers the maximum amount to the poorer segment of society is the Family Allowances part. Therefore, it is the best part of the system. I also point out, Mr. Speaker, that Parliamentarians need to have the facts, to have an open inquiry, and we, as Members of Parliament, should be proposing legislation to the Ministers instead of the other way around, especially in the areas of social policy. That is a much more fundamental democratic principle which, if I have anything to say about it, the next Government will follow, and any Clark Government will follow.


Mr. Speaker, I would also like to direct a question to the former speaker, the Hon. Member for Calgary West (Mr. Hawkes). I must say I did not understand his answer to that particular question because it did not seem to be an answer. Nevertheless, I would like to ask about another area because I know he is a serious person and he is seriously thinking of policy.
He criticized the Government for its lack of family policy, and I realize there is not a great deal of time to make a statement to that effect, but I would ask the Hon. Member as a person now, if he were the Minister, taking the situation as it exists in Canada today with such stress on families, the breakdown of traditional family units, the large number of separated families, single parents, a whole new situation, would he make a few remarks about what he would consider to be a good family policy today?


What a topic, Mr. Speaker! You have to start with an understanding of this nation, its diversity, its large geographic size, and you need to be sensitive to the fact that policies have to be flexible. When you consider northern parts of Provinces, or the Yukon versus a large city like Toronto, you must have systems which are culturally concordant with the lifestyle, geography, and economic situation in which people find themselves in this country.
I believe it behooves a Government at the federal level to be supportive of local communities, local groups, provincial Governments, and so on, in the development of social policies with the view to strengthening family life, single-parent families or the more traditional two-parent family. Federal Governments can provide some moral leadership, support and co-ordinating function, but you do not start by one person in a Cabinet saying: "This is the way it should be for everyone", trying to lay that kind of "trip" on the nation, whether it is in health care or family policy.


Mr. Speaker, this is my last opportunity as the New Democratic Party critic on social policy to speak against Bill C-132. I intend, therefore, to summarize the position of the NDP regarding this retrogressive legislation, and refer again to the reasons we so strongly object to the six and five capping on the indexing of Family Allowances. I hope as well to present some positive alternatives which we of the NDP believe would benefit
Family Allowances Act, 1973
families and children and which we hope the Government, and indeed all Parties, would consider.
I must also, of course, reiterate our criticism of the Government for introducing such a punitive Bill. This Bill further victimizes families and children who are already suffering a great deal from high unemployment, from the inflated cost of living and, of course, from increasing chronic poverty, a fact which was pointed out just yesterday in this House with reference to the recent studies of the Canadian Council on Social Development. We believe that Bill C-132 erodes the basic principle of universality, the universal social programs which we believe in very strongly, and I will speak to that shortly.
I must for a moment, however, point out once again, following up on the inability of the Hon. Member for Calgary West (Mr. Hawkes) to answer my question about the Tory position on universality, the hypocrisy of the leaderless Tories, who really have no clear economic or social policy to offer Canadians. We had a very good example of that recorded in Hansard just a few minutes ago when I asked the Hon. Member for Calgary West about the Conservative position on universality at it applies to Family Allowances. He could not answer, and Hansard will substantiate that.
The Conservative Party supported the Government restraint Bill by voting in favour of Bill C-124, so they are in favour of the whole concept of six and five restaint. We know that very clearly. As I mentioned, they also voted 60 per cent in a survey to dismantle universal Family Allowances. However, we know it is not particularly popular with voters to mention these intentions of the Conservatives in public; therefore, the Conservatives are joining us in public to vote against Bill C-132 as it applies to Family Allowance capping. They do not do this as a matter of principle, Mr. Speaker, but really because they know it would be unpopular to take any other stand.
We have opposed the total six and five restraint program of the Liberal Government because it is unjust, illogical and punitive. The Minister said in her remarks this morning that Bill C-132 should be viewed in the context of the total six and five program. That is certainly the context in which we will be discussing this Bill, and I think it is illogical for the Conservative Party to do otherwise.
The Government, supported by the Conservatives as I just said, introduced and passed Bill C-124 last Spring imposing six and five wage restraint on Public Service workers as an exemple to all workers in the country. In doing so they took away collective bargaining rights from those same workers. Then they brought in Bill C-133 to reduce indexing on pensions of retired civil servants who had paid into their pension plan themselves and who had every right to expect they would be fully protected against inflation when they retired. Not satisfied with this, the Liberals also brought in Bill C-131, passed last week over the strong opposition of those on this side of the House. That Bill reduced indexing on old age pensions, thus penalizing elderly people in Canada who must pay the full

February 10, 1983
Family Allowances Act, 1973
and real cost of food and shelter. They are struggling very hard to survive on fixed incomes which are at a very marginal level for the majority of senior citizens. I have spoken before at length about the particular impact of that Bill on elderly women in Canada.
Having imposed its will on workers and pensioners, particularly older women, the Government finally had to attack the most vulnerable group in Canada, women and children. Bill C-132, forced through this House by closure, is an outright attack on Canada's children and another slap in the face for Canadian women. It is no wonder that child abuse and wife battering are on the increase in Canada, Mr. Speaker, with this kind of Government example.


Government abuse.


Government abuse, as my colleague says. The Liberals could not even wait until they had forced this legislation through the House; they went ahead and capped the indexing on Family Allowances for the month of January. This was not only immoral, it was illegal and I think the Minister was really quite disappointing this morning when she tried to justify that. I think this indicates the lack of respect the Liberals, and the Minister in particular, have for women and children as well as for the laws of this land.
We have documented in many speeches why we oppose Bill C-132. Family Allowances, fully indexed, are a basic right of Canadians, developed and accepted from coast to coast many years ago to help with the cost of raising Canada's children. This allowance is the means by which the state, society as a whole and childless taxpayers in Canada, contribute to future generations and recognize the important function of parenting.
The Family Allowance is a monthly payment paid directly to the mother, and perhaps it should also be extended to fathers where they are the primary parenting person. It is the only cheque that many women receive in their own name. We believe this allowance should be increased, not decreased, in order to help meet the increasing costs of child care.
We believe the Government restraint rationale is fallacious. Reducing indexing to 6 per cent will not affect inflation. The Minister, referring to the Government restraint program in Committee, called it "a sword, a psychological weapon", not a financial weapon which was going to put money into job creation in any appreciable amount or have much impact, if any, on inflation generally. We agree it is a sword and the facts show that it will net very little financial return to the Government.
There is no real financial reason why this action was taken by the Government. It unfairly penalizes every family in this country with children under 19 years of age. As my colleague the Hon. Member for Winnipeg North (Mr. Orlikow) pointed out very clearly in questioning the Minister, it imposes a permanent reduction in the basic amount of the Family Allowance Program which will affect lower income families as well, even though there will be a temporary, one-year increased bonus for the Child Tax Credit if another Bill goes through.
Families need a fully-indexed Family Allowance cheque. We heard this over and over again in Committee from the groups which appeared there, particularly low-income families and groups representing low-income people. We know that many if not most families rely during tough times on that Family Allowance cheque to cover basic family expenses at the end of the month. I have said before, Mr. Speaker, that many families on welfare or unemployment insurance use this cheque to buy groceries, indeed to go out and buy food because the cupboard is empty as the end of the month draws near. Even for higher income families there is a value inasmuch as the cheque goes to the mother, recognizing the important role she has in parenting. In those cases also, although the husband may be wealthy and have a higher income, there is no guarantee, as we have heard from women's groups, that the woman in the house has money or income in her own name.
Every single organization, and there were quite a number of them, to appear before the Standing Committee on Health, Welfare and Social Affairs opposed Bill C-132 because they thought it was a regressive Bill. We heard from the Canadian Council on Social Development a very fine analysis of social programs generally, and I would hope that we would be getting at some of the broader social issues which they raised and the need for a general review and reform of all programs which affect families.
The National Council on Social Welfare, again a very sound group which does excellent research on the impact of legislation on low-income groups, also presented briefs opposing this measure, as did the National Action Committee on the Status of Women, representing hundreds of women's groups across Canada. The Canadian Advisory Council on the Status of Women also opposed it. Low-income groups that appeared, particularly some from Ottawa, opposed it very strongly and told us in very emotional terms how much the Family Allowance cheque meant to them. We heard from Public Service labour groups as well.
Finally, we object strenuously to Bill C-132 because it denies and erodes the principle of universality in favour of a limited-so we are told-temporary gift of $50 on the Child Tax Credit. We have yet to see this.
We believe fully-indexed, universal social allowances like old age pensions and Family Allowances are the soundest method of providing social security in Canada. Universal Family Allowances eliminate the stigma and the cost of a means test. They recognize equally all children in Canada, and mothers, equally each month. The cost is retrieved partially through an income tax-back provision from higher income earners.
We believe there must be major tax reforms to make this system work more equitably and to the benefit of lower income families. On this subject, I would like to refer to an interesting proposal called "Family allowances: How to save and pay to all" in an article by Jonathan Kesselman, Professor of Economics at the University of British Columbia, which was
February 10, 1983

published in the December 11 issue of The Financial Post and is a very interesting article. This is directly related to the Bill C-132 debate and I hope that the Government will study this proposal seriously. He proposes more fundamental reforms in the tax transfer treatment of dependent children and points out that, and I quote:
A child in a middle-income family generates greater total benefits than a child in a low-income family-
This is a result of our regressive child tax exemption, the Child Tax Credit and the Family Allowances system, and he gives figures in support. He says that the net benefits rise again for upper income to high-income families, which is just the reverse of the way such a program should work.
A new scheme which he proposes would begin by abolishing both the Child Tax Exemption and the Child Tax Credit. It would raise Family Allowance payments by 145 per cent to a 1982 level of $65.93 monthly or $791 annually per child, and maintain the universal basis of the allowance.
The taxability of Family Allowance would be replaced by a tax-recovery device in the federal income tax to recover increasing portions of the Family Allowance at higher family incomes.
I do not want to take the time to read more from this article, Mr. Speaker, but I would refer Members to it and remind them also that we in this Party have called for a complete review of social programs, both tax exemptions and income support programs, as they apply to families.
1 made a statement in the House recently I, on behalf of my Party, in which I criticized the thoughtless and prejudiced statements of the Minister responsible for the Status of Women when she advocated doing away with spousal tax exemptions. At that time we proposed a complete review of programs affecting families, with emphasis particularly on increasing the Family Allowance as proposed in this article to which I have just referred.
We believe it is very unfortunate that Members in this House, particularly the speakers on this side of the House, have had to take so much time to oppose a Bill which should never have been introduced in the first place. We could have used this time much more profitable and enlisted the support of many groups across Canada much more profitably to debate a progressive and major tax reform that would benefit families and also to look at social programs and policies in a much more comprehensive way. We believe that there are ways 