Mr. Speaker, the economic statement by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) brought cuts to the industrial support program under Regional and Industrial Development even far more reaching than many at first realized. Such an action has amounted to withdrawing large amounts of direct investment by the Government in industrial development, job creation, and the economic development of less affluent Canadian regions affecting, in particular, small community Canada.
Regional development grants represent direct assistance for the location of new industries in various regions where industrial development lags behind the primary industrial zones of southern Ontario and Montreal. The grants represent an opportunity for communities in all parts of Canada to participate in the development of Canada's economic potential. Such grants help to reduce regional disparity and make all Canadians feel part of the real nation.
Admittedly, regions receiving industrial development grants do not represent areas of economic power and influence, nor do they represent political numbers in Parliament. That is an important reason why industrial development efforts must be maintained in all regions of Canada.
The cold-hearted cuts to regional industrial development funding exposes the heartlessness of the Conservative Government and its new policy. The Government promised tens of thousands of jobs the day after it was elected. The law of the jungle is at work. The Government's new political philosophy is to let the strong survive.


I regret to inform the Hon. Member his time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, all Canadians concerned with economic recovery and full employment must be impressed by the implications of the separation of the Canadian section of the United Auto Workers from its American parent union. The possibility of this union's reorganization adversely affecting the Canadian auto industry has become clear. Already spokesmen for major auto makers are indicating it could encourage a reshaping of their corporate structures. This could mean possible changes in the role of Canadian plants in their production plans.
The auto industry's extraordinary recovery since August, 1982 has been a major reason for the measure of recovery Canada has enjoyed, especially in Ontario. In the constituency of Scarborough West, for example, the auto plant of General Motors employs 2,500 people. Any factor that can mean a production cut, or a plant closure, must be seen as a major threat to our economy. Government, management, and labour need the fullest co-operation to make sure internal re-organization plans in the industry do not threaten the livelihoods of many thousands.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Prime Minister failed to answer my question on how he could possibly be creating jobs by abolishing the FIRA review of direct take-overs of firms valued under $5 million. It is even more absurd to justify abolishing FIRA review of indirect take-overs of firms valued under $50 million as a way to provide more jobs.
Black and Decker's recent announced closure of its Barrie, Ontario, plant is a good example. It will result in a net loss of over 400 jobs in Canada. Workers fighting to retain their jobs have had only FIRA to turn to for recourse.
The Prime Minister seems more committed to making friends with Ronald Reagan than he is to safeguarding Canadian jobs. Ads like this 10-page spread in the New York Times yesterday-


Order.


Shame!

December 12, 1984


-will not give us a possibility of jobs in Canada. We should be safeguarding Canadian jobs.


Mr. Speaker, the Members of this House and all Canadians must be very happy about the speech made by the Right Hon. Prime Minister before the New York Economic Club. The Prime Minister's words were received with enthusiasm by the financial and industrial elite of the United States. I was particularly pleased with the reference to Quebec which provides excellent opportunities for foreign investment and is getting in step with the broad movement towards national reconciliation undertaken by our Government.
Mr. Speaker, it was an historic moment on the evening of December 10, putting an end to twenty years of confrontation, twenty years of coldly sterile relations under the previous Liberal administration.
Mr. Speaker, when two free and democratic countries live together, it stands to reason they do business together. Thus, the abolition of FIRA and replacing it with Investment Canada will have a very positive impact on Canada and create the jobs we so badly need.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday was a black day for the more than 1,100 employees of the CBC who now face early retirement or lay-offs due to the knife-wielding approach of the new Government to the federal budget. These people represent the direct human cost of the actions of an insensitive Government. The inability of the CBC to undertake the development and production of new dramas, children's programs, and informational programs which have gained international renown, is a cruel cut to Canada's cultural and social development.
The CBC is a national institution. It has an ongoing role to play in the development of Canada's national identity and in strengthening national unity through communication. The budget cuts imposed by the Government demonstrate the ignorance of the new Government in recognizing that sometimes there are costs which simply must be borne by a Government if we are, as Canadians, to have a nation. The CBC is one of those costs. Canada, and Canadianism, are not
a commodity. Unfortunately, that is how the new Government sees Canada.
The budgetary cuts inflicted by the Conservative Government will lead to an even greater cost in lost cultural development and communication among Canadians in all regions for years to come.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to bring a vast inequity to the attention of the House. While urban Canadians enjoy the luxury of daily mail delivery to their doors and are usually able to purchase postal services such as money orders, registered letters, and special delivery, within a five or 10 minute drive, rural Canadians are having their services reduced, or even cancelled, and must travel as far as 30 miles to reach the nearest post office.
In the meantime the President of Canada Post has made several speeches lauding his success in reducing the corporation's deficit and in meeting the objective of improving service. The deficit may be reduced, but I think the President is sorely mistaken if he believes that there is a renewed consumer confidence, as he puts it.
Since my election to Parliament just a few months ago, 1 have been contacted by an alarming number of constituents from my riding in rural Manitoba. So far, five separate cases have been brought to my attention where postal service has either been reduced or eliminated altogether. The residents of these small rural communities feel that they are paying the price of Canada Post's program of restraint.
I would suggest that the President of Canada Post should take a second look at his level of customer confidence, especially in rural areas, because I firmly believe that Canada Post's deficit reduction program is being borne on the backs of rural Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, 1 wish to call the attention of the House to the verbal gymnastics and contradictions which attend the question of where the Liberal Party caucus stands on the nuclear freeze proposal. The Hon. Member for Saint-Maurice (Mr. Chretien) says that there has been a change in policy. The Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Turner) will not confirm that there has been a change in policy. The Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry (Mr. Axworthy) says that they have a different position
December 12, 1984

now because they are in opposition, thus admitting the moral bankruptcy of Liberal politics.
The fact of the matter is that the Liberals have not changed their policy on the nuclear freeze. They went out of their way the other day to make an amendment to our motion so that they could appear to be for the nuclear freeze by removing from the motion that which would have made it a concrete recommendation. The Liberals are still against the nuclear freeze, and people who support the nuclear freeze should have their heads examined if they believe otherwise.


Mr. Speaker, International Youth Year will start officially in 1985. Unfortunately, many non-profit agencies and youth groups will not be able to develop their projects because they failed to receive on time the information on special grant programs.
Mr. Speaker, the previous Government did not put enough emphasis on this international event which is aimed at giving young people a say and a share in the economic, social and political life of our society. How could we forget that the previous Government always neglected young people, that it has done nothing to reduce unemployment or support training programs for, and projects by, Canadian youth?
Mr. Speaker, we must condemn the previous Government's lack of consistency in its youth policies and programs. I would therefore urge our Government to try as much as possible to correct the mistakes made by the previous Government by extending the expiry dates of certain special grant programs provided within the framework of International Youth Year.


Mr. Speaker, the CBC cuts announced yesterday as a result of the policy of the Government are emasculating the corporation.
It is not the high profile national news identity that forms the raison d'etre for this corporation. It is its promotion and encouragement of cultural identity and opportunities for Canadians in the local things done at each CBC outlet that make this corporation worth-while.
The CBC has announced the closing of Radio Station CGB in Gander, Newfoundland, one of its first stations in the province. It has the highest area ratings in listening audience
of any CBC radio station in Canada. This announced closing is uncalled for, and makes no economic sense at all.
I am asking the Minister of Communications (Mr. Masse) to use the authority given to him under the Broadcasting Act to reverse that decision. The Government, in forcing the CBC to cut, has handed it not a paring knife but a chain-saw.
During the election campaign we heard from the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) a kind of inverted snobbery toward the CBC, to pooh-pooh everything the CBC does. This should not be allowed to translate into irrational and cruel actions such as the closing of CGB Gander.
Blinded by the deficit, the Government is crippling the people, crippling the environment, crippling the economy, and now it is crippling our cultural heritage.


Mr. Speaker, there is no doubt that more and more Canadians are greatly concerned about the size of our national debt. Although the official debt has been expressed at some $190 billion, this amount does not include the accumulated debt of all the federal Crown corporations, some $60 billion. It does not include some $50 billion collected by the Government in contributions made to the Canada Pension Plan, the Public Service Superannuation Pension Fund, the Armed Forces Pension Fund, and the RCMP Pension Fund. The money collected in pension contributions goes into general revenue and is spent by Governments to pay current bills.
[DOT] (MIS)
All in all, Mr. Speaker, our national debt in reality is some $300 billion.
This is the unfortunate legacy that our Government has inherited from the former Government.
This huge debt is one reason why all Canadians have been asked to bite the bullet, and for each and every one of us to sacrifice and work together in an unselfish way to get Canada out of the economic mire and back on track again to full employment and economic growth.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, it is imperative that we make every effort now to make the necessary changes and the necessary sacrifices to curb this debt if Canada is to survive.

December 12, 1984
Oral Questions


have a question for the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. When he was in New York declaring in his own rhetoric that Canada was open for business, did the Prime Minister have in mind statements made to a New York newspaper by executives of General Motors and Chrysler that, in view of the decision of the automobile workers of Canada to set up a separate union, which is certainly their fundamental right, these key executives felt that that decision threatened American investment in Canada in the automobile industry, and thereby threatened Canadian jobs? Is that the kind of business climate he had in mind in New York city?


I think my right hon. friend is perhaps confusing two statements that were made, Mr. Speaker. First was my statement that, indeed, we welcomed foreign investment to help us create the jobs we need. But a question was put after the dinner, when I was asked what I thought of the decision by Mr. White. I said that I thought Mr. White was a thoughtful and able union leader, and if he believed it was in his interest and in the interest of Canada to proceed that way, he did so with our encouragement and our good wishes.
members, and that Members of this House would encourage them in doing precisely that.


Mr. Speaker, we share this view, and I was more interested in discussing the promised conversation between General Motors and the Prime Minister.


On
the same subject, of relations with the United States, Mr. Speaker, rumours are persisting that de Havilland and Cana-dair will be purchased by foreign companies. In my reply to the Speech from the Throne, I expressed several times my concern about this possibility.
Could the Right Hon. Prime Minister give the House the assurance that if these aircraft companies are bought by foreign investors, the House of Commons will have an opportunity to make a full examination of the purchase transactions?


As far as I
know, Mr. Speaker, there are no groups or great numbers of companies or corporations, either Canadian or foreign, lining up to buy the assets in question. If there is any change, I shall certainly let the Hon. Member know.


Mr. Speaker, in the very first Question Period on November 7 I put to the Prime Minister a concern that I had about an investment of General Motors in Canada as a result of the difference in union perspectives between Canada and the United States and the automobile industry. At that time the Prime Minister promised, and let me use his words: "I will take this up with the management of that corporation".
Has the Prime Minister fulfilled that promise? Has he talked to the senior executives of General Motors? What would his reflections be as a result of those conversations, and the recent threat by General Motors to curtail investment in Canada as a result of a separate union being set up in this country?


I have not seen what my right hon. friend has referred to as a threat, Mr. Speaker. I have not seen that. I assume I would be as dismayed as he would be with that kind of rhetoric, if it were the case. Concerns have been raised as to the status of the auto pact in the event of a separation, but I still hold to the view, which I think would be endorsed by all Members of this House, that Canadian trade unionists are quite entitled to take whatever decisions they believe are in the interests of their


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. As he probably knows, the United States and many other countries have a very highly complicated set of prohibitions and controls against foreign investment in their own countries, and trade. When the Prime Minister speaks about good friends and neighbours, I presume he means that is a reciprocal relationship. Has either he or his Ministers made any effort, or taken any initiative with the United States or other countries, to ask them to change their barriers and to eliminate their controls and prohibitions against both investment and trade, in light of the dismantling of FIR A which the Government has undertaken?


Mr. Speaker, in my speech in New York, and on many other occasions, I specifically referred to the fact that protectionism is our mutual adversary. I pointed out the problems inherent in attitudes in the American Congress which would give rise to protectionism that would, inadvertently or otherwise, harm
December 12, 1984

Canadian interests. I said that Canadian interests are privileged ones and that we must have that kind of reciprocity. In fact, I went further. I said that if I were the President of the United States I would wake up in the morning and say: "Thank God for Canada. What can I do for Canada today? It is the best friend anybody could ever have".


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I am sure that is what the President in fact says, because it is not every day that he can sell the Brooklyn Bridge to a Canadian Prime Minister.


Oh, oh!


Hear, hear!


Considering that the debate and discussion on Investment Canada will take some time, will the Prime Minister undertake to take those initiatives with the United States and ensure that when President Reagan visits here in March he will be able to announce, as the Prime Minister did in New York the other day, the same kind of dismantling reduction and elimination of those kinds of barriers in his country as the Prime Minister announced as benefits to Americans?


Mr. Speaker, I can see why my hon. friend is somewhat unnerved today. There was a statement earlier today by the Leader of the Opposition which says Liberal Cabinet Ministers responsible for excessive spending should be terminated, should be held responsible. I can see why my hon. friend is somewhat perturbed today.


Hear, hear!


I am not perturbed. I am asking you a question.


When was that statement made?


When and where?


Table the document.


I know it is Wednesday. If I didn't know, I do now. Would the Right Hon. Prime Minister care to finish his answer, please?


Mr. Speaker, the intervention of the Leader of the Opposition was improper procedurally. If he would like to consult with me on my vast parliamentary experience, I would be happy to be helpful.
Oral Questions


When was that statement made?


The statement was made this morning by Canadian Press. As the Leader of the Opposition knows, I believe everything-


Order.


Answer the question.


Order. Well, I think we will leave it at that. The Hon. Member for Oshawa.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Last Monday when I asked the Government if it would make available to the Auditor General certain cabinet documents which he deemed to be essential in his assessment of the Petro-Canada take-over of Petrofina, the Government said no. Specifically the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources said:
-the Auditor General wants from me what the law does not permit me to give-
The Government has now changed its mind.
I would like to ask the Prime Minister a straightforward question. What was illegal last week that has become legal this week, or will he tell us what law he is now breaking?


Mr. Speaker, the only change between this week and last was when the Hon. Member for Burnaby was asked on "As It Happens" if he would divulge the confidence of a conversation with his Leader, and he said: "No, that is privileged". That was the only difference this week. My hon. friend will acknowledge that we have always taken the position, and I have defended it in the House, that cabinet conversations-


It is not conversations that he is talking about.


I quite agree. The Auditor General stated yesterday that he is not seeking political information or communications between cabinet Ministers. That assurance or that clarification having been given, I am now working with the Auditor General to provide to him all of the information that he requires to make value judgments on behalf of the people of Canada. His report yesterday is exemplary in this regard, and the analysis that it made of our predecessors. We want him to continue that same analytical judgment and we will provide him with all of the information that we have.

December 12, 1984
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister knows, as the Minister behind him knows, that when she said last week that what the Auditor General wanted was illegal, she misinformed the House. It was not illegal last week, it is not illegal this week, and he ought to be getting that material on a regular basis.
If the Prime Minister has now agreed to provide to the Auditor General information concerning the Petro-Canada take-over of Petrofina, which includes documents which were heretofore regarded as secret under the cabinet confidentiality rule, on the understanding that the Auditor General does not want conversations about cabinet meetings, will he assure the House, and, more important, the people of Canada, because hundreds of millions of dollars were involved, that this rule will be applied to all Departments and Crown corporations without exception?


Mr. Speaker, I am happy to give my hon. friend the assurance that all of the information available to the Government of Canada that is consistent with the point he has just raised will indeed be provided to the Auditor General of Canada so that he can make the kinds of decisions that he has to make on behalf of Parliament.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to hear that. If the Prime Minister had said that a week ago, we would have saved a lot of time in the House of Commons. The Prime Minister shakes his head, but he knows that in private meetings as well as in public statements that what I say is the case. If this is now the case, and the Government of Canada is going to honour its obligations under the law to the Auditor General, will the Government make it clear to the Auditor General that it is unnecessary for him to wage a costly court battle against the Government of Canada to obtain, as a matter of right, what he ought to have?


May I say
with respect, Mr. Speaker, that my hon. friend makes a compelling point, but I made it yesterday. He is a day late. I had the Auditor General in precisely to explore that point. I thought it was offensive to the customs of this House that the servant of Parliament should have to initiate litigation, as he did against the previous Government, to seek information which was rightfully here in this House. I met with the Auditor General in a spirit of openness to attempt to find, with him, a formula that would enable us to do that. He appears to be satisfied with the talks as initiated.
I want to give my friend the assurance that I intend to follow through, consistent with that spirit that he mentioned, because our obligation is not to the Auditor General; our obligation is to the Auditor General as a servant of Parliament.
[DOT] (M30)


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion.
Can the Minister confirm to the House that a foreign company has actually expressed its intention of buying Cana-dair? In reply to a question by the Leader of the Opposition, the Prime Minister just said that he was not aware of any companies that would be interested in buying Canadair. However, when the Minister tabled his Bill to do away with FIRA, he said this would allow foreign companies to purchase Canadair. Is there or is there not a company that is offering to buy the Canadair firm in Montreal?


Mr. Speaker, in reply to the Hon. Member I would remind him that the Prime Minister said that there was not a long list of companies lined up to buy the aircraft firms. The statement that I made is quite correct. There is at least one company that has expressed an interest. However, I think until that company puts that interest into a firm offer, or at least is more inclined to talk in specific dollar terms, it would not be in anybody's interest to reveal its name.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is particularly important since the Minister seems to be preparing us for the end of the aeronautics industry in Canada, unless the Government makes a definitive commitment. I would ask the Minister first of all, whether he is prepared to make the commitment that Canadair will not be sold unless the buyer offers guarantees that all existing technology at Canadair will remain in Canada, and second, I want to ask whether the Minister is prepared to commit the Government to not selling Canadair if the buyer cannot guarantee existing jobs in Montreal.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Hon. Member will be pleased to hear that, if a deal is arrived at, it will certainly cover the points to which he was referred. It will certainly receive cabinet approval and it will certainly receive the House's approval if necessary under the Financial Administration Act. In any event, if the Hon. Member knows of any Canadian would-be purchasers for Canadair, or any Canadians who wish to become a partner with a foreign concern, he can come over and see me this afternoon. I will be in my office all afternoon waiting to talk to him.
December 12, 1984


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Defence and deals with the continuing difficulties of the Auditor General to evaluate satisfactorily the $3.5 billion overrun on the F-18, and other major expenditures of the Ministry of National Defence. Is the Minister aware that under a directive given by the Chief of Defence Staff in September, 1983, under Section 23, his Department was specifically told that the Auditor General should have no more access to information about his Department than would be available to the general public under the Access to Information Act? Will the Minister confirm that that is currently the departmental policy?


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the Hon. Member that in August, 1983, certain instructions were given to th e Deputy Minister and the Chief of the Armed Forces to the effect that certain information should not be passed on to the Auditor General as he requested. That situation has now changed. The Hon. Member has heard what the Right Hon. Prime Minister indicated today. My officials have received that same message from me, and the information the Auditor General seeks will be provided as outlined by the Prime Minister.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary. Are the directives issued on September 1, 1983 departmental policy or has this policy been dropped?
What instructions have been given to your departmental officials, and has this document now been cancelled, yes or no?


Mr. Speaker, apparently the Hon. Member cannot understand it in either English or French. I would like to tell him, as kindly as I can, that the officials of my Department have been instructed to adhere not to the directives that were given by the former Government but to the directives given by this Government, a Government that believes that the Canadian people have a right to the information the Auditor General seeks to provide them.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Multicultural-ism. As the Minister knows, in 1942 over 17,000 Canadian citizens who were of Japanese origin, even though they were born or naturalized Canadian citizens, were uprooted from their homes, and their businesses were expropriated. When will
Oral Questions
this terrible abuse of cabinet power under the War Measures Act be acknowledged and put right?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the Hon. Member for his question and his interest in this very important subject. I can say, subject to the House Leader's discussions and confirmation, that I would hope to have this important matter dealt with early in the Session after we return from the Christmas recess. I would also indicate to the Hon. Member that officials in my Department are at present discussing matters of concern with the Japanese Canadian community across the country. I may just add that the main point that we are trying to stress is that we want full consultation with that community so that this matter can be dealt with in an honourable and just fashion.


May I interrupt the proceedings to bring to the attention of the House the presence in the gallery today of the Hon. William Marshall, Minister responsible for Energy in Newfoundland and Labrador.


Hear, hear!

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, we all know how quickly the Minister of Employment and Immigration reacted when the problem was not just closing down an industry but a whole town, the town of Gagnon, and I wish to congratulate her. Today I would like to ask the Minister what she intends to do to help 1,150 CBC employees, especially the creative artists and writers who will not be eligible for preretirement and also the clerks and other "small fry" who were severely penalized as a result of yesterday's announcement by Mr. Juneau, the President of the CBC.


Mr. Speaker, I think the question might interest the Minister of Communications.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is directed to the Right Hon. Prime Minister. I shall put my question to the Prime Minister tomorrow. It is about employment. I think it is directly concerned with . . . But perhaps I was too hasty. I would therefore like to ask, and my question is a very simple one: Does the Minister of Employment and Immigration intend to help 1,150 CBC employees, especially the

December 12, 1984
Oral Questions
creative artists, writers and clerks who are not and will not be eligible for pre-retirement? I do not think this comes under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Communications, since it concerns employment.


Mr. Speaker, I would be glad to take the Hon. Member's representations about this important cultural community under notice, but I would also assure him that in a country such as Canada, where there is so much opportunity and where there is confidence in the future, there is a place for writers, for the cultural groups, and for all of those who want to make a contribution and can make a contribution to the future of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Forestry. Vancouver Island communities with unemployment rates of 15 per cent are worried that the proposed federal-British Columbia forestry agreement will be directed toward replanting in the interior and will do nothing for the prime forest lands of Vancouver Island. I would like to ask the Minister if he will agree to the request of Vancouver Island mayors for permanent funding of intensive forestry on Vancouver Island that would create 1,100 permanent and immediate jobs, and provide long-term economic stability for the Island?


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the Hon. Member that I have personally visited that particular project on the Island. This afternoon at 3.30 I will be meeting that group and will listen to its representations. I do know a little bit about the magnitude of the request. It is a very interesting one. I think the project is an interesting one, and we will attempt to try to respond to its needs as the money becomes available.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the same Minister. "As the money becomes available" is a very problematic situation. The money is needed now. Will the Minister tell the House whether the proposed agreement discriminates against Vancouver Island? If it does, will he make a commitment to secure additional funds in order that the hard-hit Vancouver Island communities will get their fair share?


Mr. Speaker, I have visited various parts of B.C. and I do know that there is a great need. My cabinet colleagues are presently dealing with a variety of requests for assistance, and we will deal with that matter in due course.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of State for Multiculturalism. Canadian ethnic leaders and organizations have been dismayed over the cancellation of the 1986 census, largely because for the first time in its history it was to collect data which would be used in implementing equal opportunity programs for visible minorities. Was the Minister consulted prior to the cancellation by his colleague, the Minister of Finance?


Mr. Speaker, Cabinet collectively dealt with the material which was put forward by the Minister of Finance. I do not share the Hon. Member's concern in terms of the various ethnic communities in this country.


Mr. Speaker, if he does not share those concerns, he does not share the thousands of concerns which are pouring in from ethnic groups across the country.


Me too.


The Minister of Defence should listen and learn.


Oh, oh!


I would ask the Minister, given that both the Abella Commission report and the Equality Now report support the 1986 census, what he proposes to the House with respect to collecting that data base, so that Canadians from all parts of the country and all backgrounds can have equal opportunity programs for jobs in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member should know that a labour force survey will begin in a very short period of time. The information gathered through the labour force survey will be utilized by the Ministry of Multiculturalism.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Communications. He will know that the President of the CBC announced yesterday that 750 permanent employees of the CBC will be laid off in the next couple of months. However, the President did not deal with the thousands of Canadians who work on a part-time or contract basis on particular programs-the writers, actors, musicians, and dancers. What studies, if any, were done by the CBC, or the consultants whom the minister employed to
December 12, 1984

determine what the effect would be on these thousands of people?


Mr. Speaker, last week I informed the House that after serious and thorough consultations with CBC officials within the framework of our respective jurisdictional and regulatory responsibilities, we agreed that budget cuts would be applied mainly to the CBC's administrative areas so as to safeguard creativity and production in the cultural departments, both within the network and regionally. I think these consultations have born fruit, and today, we can see that the CBC has made an effort to restrict the necessary budgetary cutbacks almost totally to administration and capital investment.


Supplementary question.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Minister knows that Hon. Members who represent areas where the CBC has operations have already heard from their constituents that regional and national programs are being cut-back despite the protestations of the Minister. Considering the fact that spokespeople for the cultural community have made the case over the last couple of years that their people are now living on very small incomes, what effect will this have on those people whose incomes will really be sharply reduced by the cut-backs by the CBC?
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the Hon. Member that the CBC will do everything in its power to see to it that the cultural sector will suffer as little as possible.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State (Forestry).
Has the present Government made representations to the U.S. Government objecting to the tendency to impose quotas on Canadian lumber imports?


Mr. Speaker, having just had consultations with the industry in the United States, I can tell the Hon. Member that it is a matter of concern, and that there is talk in the United States forest industry about quotas and countervail. I am sure it is a matter which concerns my colleagues in External Affairs and
Oral Questions
DRIE. We are presently dealing with the matter. We are monitoring the situation. I think the kind of comment that was made by the Prime Minister, and the kind of atmosphere which we are trying to develop between the United States and Canada, will possibly curtail that kind of talk in the United States.


Hon. Warren Allmand (Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine
East): Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. I have in my hand the factum, that is, the written argument, of the Attorney General of Canada before the Supreme Court which rejects the position of Duncan Macdonald of Montreal that he has the right to a court summons in English. The factum is dated November, 1984.
When questioned about this, the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada first said that he had not read the factum, even though it bears his name. Later he said that it was prepared by his officials and he had no responsbility for it.
In Supreme Court cases which involve a sensitive political issue, is it the position of the Prime Minister that the chief legal officer of the Crown, the Attorney General of Canada, has not only the obligation to scrutinize closely any factum which goes to the Supreme Court in his name, but that he has full responsibility for its content? What is his position on that?
Mr. Speaker, given the importance of the matter which is inherent in the question raised by my hon. friend, and not having had an opportunity to read the factum, I hope that he will allow me to consult with the Minister of Justice and get back to him as quickly as I can.


Hon. Warren Allmand (Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine
East): Mr. Speaker, this is a question of government policy. The Right Hon. Prime Minister was a learned lawyer and he should be ready to answer the question. We have a factum, under the name of the Attorney General of Canada, which has been submitted to the Supreme Court of Canada-
Order, please. Does the Member have a supplementary question?


I am simply asking the Prime Minister if it is the policy of his Government that a factum can be placed before the Supreme Court of Canada under the name of the Attorney General of Canada, and that the Attorney General can renounce responsibility for the factum and slough off that responsibility to the public servants in his Department. Is that the policy of this Government?


December 12, 1984
Oral Questions
Mr. Speaker, the policy that my hon. friend has described is the policy of the preceding Government. It sloughed-off ministerial responsibility. Any time it got into trouble, it consistently blamed it on the officials. That is what happened in the previous Government.


Hear, hear!


Order. Does the Prime Minister wish to finish his answer?


I do not want my hon. friend to get any more exasperated than he is.
1 can tell my hon. friend that this Party has stood for the defence of Anglophone rights in Quebec and Francophone rights outside Quebec. We believe in the defence of minority rights. We have no lessons to take from the Hon. Member in that regard.


Hear, hear!


Order, please. The Hon. Member for York-ton-Melville (Mr. Nystrom).

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to She Minister of Communications and has to do with the CBC cut-backs.
English-speaking listeners have ready access to American networks such as PBS, but French listeners have no such radio and TV services, Mr. Speaker. Here is my question to the Minister: Given the cut-backs imposed by the Government, how can the CBC fulfil its mandate on behalf of French listeners?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think that the CBC is the only one responsible for French programming in this country. I will take this opportunity to explain that the private sector has some responsibility for that. If it is possible for us to improve the quality of our products, improve the exportation of our products, we will have better production in Quebec because the market will be stronger than it is now.


But, Mr. Speaker, last week the Minister said something about improving CBC program services, so my supplementary question is this: How can he now account for
the contradiction between his promise of last week to improve services, on one hand, and his budgetary cutbacks at the CBC, on the other?


Mr. Speaker, I explained a few days ago in Montreal that we must enlarge the range of French language programming throughout the country. We must give greatly increased emphasis to marketing, both national and international.


That is the contradiction right there!


I have new problems-


The contradiction is right there!


-and you know those problems-


That was not my question!


-have been created by the new environment-


Go on, go on!


-over the past decade.


That is the contradiction!


There is a growing competition from Anglophone programming in this country, both domestic and foreign.
t Translation]


That was not my question.


It is not just the situation in Quebec. It is not a case of taking from the English to give to the French. That is not the way this problem should be perceived at all. That is not the solution at all.


With great respect to the Minister. The Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier.
December 12, 1984

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Right Hon. Prime Minister.
As many people in this country, we believe that under section 133 of the Constitution, the courts in some provinces are required to serve the people in both official languages. Mr. Duncan MacDonald's case, and the point which we want to stress for the information of this government, is that neither the Societe franco-manitobaine, nor Alliance Quebec, nor a number of Canadians share the views of your Minister of Justice in his factum rejecting that position, which is restrictive of language rights. Is the Prime Minister ready to withdraw that factum, read it closely, bring it to his office and take a sensible decision on the matter?


I think my hon. friend will agree with me that my position, my government's position is quite clear on the issue of minority rights. Fortunately, the courts in Canada have always been there to rule on the major current issues which have been referred to them in that area. There is no doubt that the Parliament of Canada and this Government fully support the rights of our linguistic minorities across Canada. Those are vital rights, and we are going to continue that support to our English or French-speaking minorities across the land.


Mr. Speaker, I have a very short supplementary. Will the Prime Minister withdraw the factum, read it, study it, and come back to this House with it?


Mr. Speaker, if I may say, when the issue came up regarding the protection of minority rights in Manitoba we took a clear cut position which was not shared by the Leader of the Opposition and some of his colleagues. So I may say that we have been consistent throughout the piece and, as I indicated to my hon. friend from Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine East, the Minister of Justice is not here but I would take notice of his question and advise the House at the earliest possible moment.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Right Hon. Prime Minister. He promised consultation. The Minister of Finance failed to consult with CBC management in advance of applying cuts to
Oral Questions
the CBC. The Minister of Communications failed even to respond to a communication requesting consultation, from members of all three Parties from the Windsor area. Is that to be considered typical of that kind of consultation? Or will his Government agree to engage in real consultation with the people with a view of seeing whether there cannot be some correction in what are obvious errors in determining where the cuts should be applied in terms of their effect on Canadian content and sufficient recognition of the concerns of regional areas?


Mr. Speaker, I think that had the Minister of Finance consulted with the President of the CBC prior to the event, my hon. friend would have accused him of political interference. All that has transpired is that the Minister of Communications and other government officers have dealt with the CBC in an acceptable way largely pursuant to a request from the President of the CBC. We are satisfied that the arm's-length relationship that must exist was respected and that the CBC Pesident and officers brought forward a new expenditure program they believed was in the best interests of the corporation. We did not interfere beyond that, and we try to respect what the President of the CBC and his colleagues decide.


With all due respect to the Prime Minister, you cannot have it both
ways.


Neither can you.


With all due respect, the Hon. Member cannot have a long first question and a preamble to the supplementary. The Member cannot have it both ways. Does the Hon. Member have a question?


Mr. Speaker, how can we believe the assurances that the cuts would be applied to overhead and administration, when in Windsor all the cuts have been applied to programming?


The decision, Mr. Speaker, was of course that of the President of the CBC. I may tell my hon. friend that if he feels there has been an injustice in the greater Windsor area, I will be happy to consult with my colleague in Communications and bring that to the attention of the President of the CBC. I am sure that both he and I want the people of Windsor to be treated with the ultimate fairness as well.

December 12, 1984

Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Forestry. Can the Minister tell us what progress is being made in the negotiations with Quebec on a Federal-provincial agreement for forestry?


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Defence. First, I want to welcome him back to the House from his NATO meetings and other various on-the-the-job training programs.
The Acting Defence Minister was not in a position to give me an answer to a question last week because he did not know what the Minister had said at NATO, even though he said they had very close communications. At the same time he did inform us that what the Minister had said "made a great deal of sense", even though he had not heard it.
When making statements about the CF-18 fighter aircraft and the six new patrol frigates, among other items, was the Minister simply not making several promises to our NATO allies that were based on commitments which had already been made and were already under way to a degree, by the previous Government?


Mr. Speaker, one of the real points of interest in the Auditor General's report is that the former Government told the Canadian people that the CF-18 program and the Canadian patrol frigate program were real programs. We found out from the Auditor General that they were half programs. They were buying half a plane and half a frigate. We are now carrying out the total program by putting the other things in the planes to make them real fighting planes, and putting the other things
in the frigates to make them real fighting ships. That would not have happened under the budget proposed by the former Government. As a new Government we are saddled with delivering to NATO and NORAD-


With great respect.


It was promised by them and will be done by us.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have the honour today of presenting four separate petitions, all dealing with the issue of telephone deregulation. The petitioners from the Birdtail Valley New Horizons Club, the Green Valley Senior Centre, and the Onanole Cheery Chirpers Seniors' Club and many citizens of southwestern Manitoba total 1,041.
Their concern is that telephone deregulation could undermine the tradition of affordable, universal service which we enjoy in this country. They ask that Parliament refrain from enacting legislation which would lead to deregulation.


I have another petitioner, but I do feel duty-bound to ask Members either to take their seats or leave the Chamber, please. Hon. Members are petitioning the House of Commons and it only seems fair to me that they get a chance for the House to hear what they say. Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, as the Member of Parliament for London West it is my duty to present a petition signed by over 2,000 residents in my riding.
The petition will be familiar to the House. It calls for Parliament to declare Canada a nuclear weapons-free zone, to work actively for a multilateral de-escalation of the arms race, to divert arms funding to peaceful purposes, and to conduct a free vote to cease the testing of Cruise missiles in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition from the residents of the City of Vernon in Okanagan North who are concerned about the lack of protection and effective legislation to reduce the carnage and destruction caused by drunk drivers on our roads and highways.
December 12, 1984


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: Nos. 30 and 73.


How many lawyers are employed by the Treasury Board?


There are nine lawyers assigned to the Treasury Board from the Department of Justice.
Courts Amendment Act


Mr. Speaker, last November 16, 1 had a question about the court challenges program placed on the Order Paper. That was a month ago. I therefore want to ask the Parliamentary Secretary whether we can expect an answer soon since, one month later, this matter is now making the headlines and the Prime Minister could perhaps use the answer to understand what is going on in the MacDonald affair.


Soon.
I ask that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Shall the remaining questions be allowed to stand?


Agreed.


1.	On March 31 of (a) 1981 (b) 1982 (c) 1983 (d) 1984, what total amount was at the credit of the Public Service Superannuation Account?
2.	In the fiscal year (a) 1981-82 (b) 1982-83 (c) 1983-84, what (i) average rate of interest did the government pay for the use of the money in the Account (ii) total amount of interest was paid into the Account (iii) total amount was paid out of the Account?





Mr. Speaker, I ask that all notices of motions for the production of papers be allowed to stand.
I. (a)	March	31.	1981	-(b)	March	31.	1982	-(c)	March	31.	1983	-(d)	March	31.	1984	-
Balance in Public Service Superannuation Account


Shall all notices of motions for the production of papers be allowed to stand?


Agreed.
2. Public Service Superannuation Account
Average Rate of	Interest Paid	[DOT]Additional	Amou