Mr. Speaker, President Reagan, in his State of the Union speech, Wednesday evening, announced a proposal to allocate funds of almost $55 million for acid rain research projects. How disappointing! The Reagan administration is still foot dragging and continues to rule out a program to curb the pollution that causes acid rain.
What is needed is not more research, though that is welcome, but actual programs to carry out the clean-up. It has become evident that the President's re-election schedule is far more important than acid rain. This is a token attempt, and was only outlined because the Democratic presidential candidates have taken a strong stand on what they would do in respect of acid rain. It is not enough.


Mr. Speaker, the theory of the divine right of kings, namely, that the ruler governed by divine ordinance, or that perhaps he himself was a divinity, has long since been discarded. Well, almost discarded. Today we appear to have a new version namely, the divine right of the Prime Minister. For instance, he laid his hands upon his loyal aide and servant and the anointed one was supposed to go forth and win Spadina. Something went wrong and he lost. Now, according to The Globe and Mail, the said anointed is not only at work in Spadina but is going even further afield-


Order. The Chair has some concern about the use of Standing Order 21 for this kind of attack. It has been raised before by the Hon. Member for Yukon (Mr. Nielsen) and other Hon. Members. I can only say that the device of an attack on individual Members through the use of Standing Order 21 is not in order in the House. The Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Birds Hill (Mr. Blaikie).


Mr. Speaker, recently colleagues of mine have been pressing the Minister of Finance (Mr. Lalonde) about the human dimension of the unemployment problem, about what he intends to do, and about what he thinks Canadians should do who find themselves in the position of being without work or unemployment insurance benefits, and without a Government with the will to do something to create the jobs they need.
I would call to the attention of the House, particularly to the Government, the people who find themselves in the position of a number of constituents 1 have had the opportunity to meet, who would be in their mid to late fifties, and have been laid off. They have done warehouse work perhaps, or something like that, for 30 years, and now find they cannot do that kind of work any more. They have been laid off in favour of younger men. They are not old enough for old age pensions, they are not disabled enough for the Canada Pension Disability Pension and they are not young enough to find a job somewhere else, doing what they are able to do. What does the Minister of Finance have to say to those kinds of people who find themselves in this twilight zone between being able to find a job and being old enough for a pension?
I implore the Government to do something to meet the needs of these hard-working people who cannot find a job. They do not want to go on welfare. If we want to continue to call ourselves a civilized society, the Government has to move on this issue and do something for people who find themselves in that kind of situation, either by amending the Unemployment Insurance Act and/or the Canada Pension Act.


Mr. Speaker, this week the Minister of State for Science and Technology (Mr. Johnston) made three announcements designed to support Canadian micro-electronics, universities, and the natural sciences. In view of the deplorable state of research, innovation and development support provided by the Government for the past 16 years, these announcements seem to be wonderful on the surface, and very welcome. But to someone stranded for days on the desert, a mouthful of water and a soda cracker seem like a banquet, and this is what we have. They are imponderable and impossible to judge by thoughtful and

January 27, 1984
reasonable Members of this House, or by the science community, or by the business community at large. These initiatives sound great, when in reality they may be misdirected efforts and the wrong application of funds.
If Parliament is to be effective in evaluating research opportunities to generate wealth for Canada and real jobs for Canadians, it must have a meaningful forum in which to do so. Such a forum would be a standing committee on science and technology, made up of Members in all Parties, a committee that would be able to listen to the concerns and ideas of the real world. The committee could hear scientists and experts on important subjects, such as specific job creation in high tech industries, the upgrading of lower tech industries, a more efficient extraction process in mining, better means of transportation, reduction in acid rain emissions, and many other important issues which must be effectively addressed if we are to regain our economic stability.
Last year all Parties in the House agreed to the need for such a committee. A joint recommendation was made to all three House Leaders, and they agreed with the need. Is it because the Government is still unaware of the real value of science and technology and has learned nothing in the past 16 years that we do not now have such a committee? Does the Government intend to continue issuing spurious announcements which are intended only to influence voters?


The Hon. Member's time has expired.

[Translation)


The Hon. Member for Lac-Saint-Jean.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have a very special reason for asking to speak in the House today. I suppose that like most Canadians and especially Quebecers, you were able to follow what happened during the last forty-eight hours to a little Montreal girl, Veronique Rocheleau, who is eight years old. Yesterday, the story had a happy ending, and today in the House, I wish to emphasize, first of all, the work done by the Montreal Police Corps and by all the people of Montreal. All Quebecers and people everywhere in Canada were anxious to hear the little girl had been found, and as the Member for Lac-Saint-Jean and speaking on behalf of the people of my riding and my colleagues, I would like to say that we are very happy that this story ended as it did and that this little girl was able to escape and go back to her parents.
Mr. Speaker, this series of events was particularly moving since as a result, the whole country became involved, at least in
spirit, and we must thank God that everything turned out well and hope there will be no similar incidents in this beautiful country of ours.


Mr. Speaker, Canadian universities have reached the crisis point, and it is up to the Government to decide whether it will contribute to the problem or to the solution. Universities have the capacity to decide whether Canadians will be active participants in the research and development boom or simply passive bystanders.
The Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada recently told the Government that there are not enough Ph.D.s in the very professions which are required to meet present R and D demands, and there are certainly not enough students enrolled in graduate programs to meet future R and D demands. On the one hand the Government has boldly stated that R and D is a priority, yet at the same time it has refused to make education financing an area of priority.
Meanwhile, university enrolments are increasing, due in large part to massive unemployment among youth, created largely by the Government's policies. At Brandon University, for example, student enrolment is higher than it has ever been. Again, the Government is not listening. It is not responding.
There is considerable evidence that universities can fuel the re-entry of women into the workplace. Once again, by refusing to make education financing a priority, the Government is failing to meet the challenge. In effect, universities are pleading with the Government of Canada to answer the challenges of tomorrow. The Government, regretfully, has answered the plea with one word, no.


Mr. Speaker, many times in the House the Minister of Finance has made statements leading up to his forthcoming Budget, indicating that recovery is upon us. I would like to point out that there are many groups which are not sharing in the so-called recovery. The farmers of Canada are an important group in our country who reached a net income in 1974 which, for the first time, was equivalent to the average industrial wage earner's. In 1974 the net income of farmers was $3.5 billion. It is interesting to note that in 1983 the net income for farmers was again $3.5 billion, in spite of inflation, and the cost of living rising more than two and one half times.

The solution that has been offered by many politicians and economists of late is increased productivity. In the past 10 years Canadian farmers have increased productivity on a per man and woman basis probably faster than any other group in our economy. Yet they were rewarded by having their real net incomes cut in half.
The Minister of Finance, in his Budget which is soon to be presented to this House, would be wise to remember that if a recovery does exist in this country-


Order. The Hon. Member's time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. I know that he has been making numerous press statements. In light of the safety hazard problems revealed in the federal Government's report on Air Canada, plus yesterday's very expensive smoke in a 727 cockpit which forced an emergency landing in Winnipeg, the day after weedless Wednesday, and the news that the Minister has ordered daily monitoring of safety on Eastern Provincial Airways, can he assure the House that the safety of the travelling public is not endangered?


Mr. Speaker, I think that all these measures clearly demonstrate that safety is very much a No. 1 priority, both of my Department and of the Government. We have taken unusual steps, first, by establishing for the first time a comprehensive audit to examine the full operating and maintenance activities of Air Canada. We will be undertaking that program on a regular basis with all the major carriers, so that there can be a regular system of full scale examinations to determine what corrections or improvements might be made.
That audit itself clearly pointed out that the safety standards in Air Canada are very good ones, but in any system there is always room for change and improvement and that is the purpose of the audit, to draw attention to where we can provide for some structural and procedural changes. It does demonstrate that we are very much committed to ensuring that there is both proper maintenance, and certification, and observation of the safety activities of our airline systems.


Mr. Speaker, 1 thank the Minister for the answer, as far as it goes.
Oral Questions
In view of the fact that the audit does point out certain specifics that should be corrected, and also underlines something called "coziness" between the Department of Transport administrators and Air Canada officials, what does the Minister intend to do about that, and when, so that the safety regulations will be enforced and administered as definitively as possible?


Mr. Speaker, under what is called a letter of privilege the Ministry of Transport transfers to airlines a number of activities for which they are in a sense self governing, or self examining. One of the primary findings in the audit which we are recommending is that many of those requirements for standard setting and maintenance would be taken back and we would be pursuing those activities more rigorously. That is now under way through discussions between my officials and Air Canada about how recapturing those responsibilities will take place, to make sure there is a very clear demarcation line between the regulatory requirements and safety area and the activities of the airlines themselves.
I think the Hon. Member knows from his own experience that there must be a close working relationship between the airlines and our Department. There is much shared information and knowledge. At the same time, however, the audit did point out that, particularly in the airworthiness standard setting and the certifying of some of the maintenance activities, those activities should be taken back by the Ministry of Transport, which we are now in the process of doing.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the Minister for helping to clarify this situation which I think is causing unusual concern across the country.
1 would like to ask him specifically about the EPA situation and the disturbing news that federal inspectors are reporting daily on safety procedures of EPA, and especially on the tension in the cockpits due to the ongoing labour strike. When will corrective measures be taken to resolve this very untenable and unhealthy situation?


Mr. Speaker, as 1 pointed out yesterday, the technical standards of EPA are certainly being met. If and when there may be incidents that would transgress those, they are immediately reported and action is taken. The Hon. Member would probably know that just last week we issued two show cause orders to two pilots because of incidents on landing and in certain areas where they did not meet the minimum equipment list. We will be taking those actions immediately.
However, as a result of the very bitter labour situation that has evolved in that airline over the last several months, there is a feeling that if the tension level-the measurement of which is sometimes indefinable because there is no technical standard to use-and the psychology that works there, begin to impinge

January 27, 1984
Oral Questions
upon safety, we have to be in a position to monitor it very carefully.
We could go and set up a special task force or a special team to conduct a far more intense series of examinations and inspections on board Eastern Provincial Airways. We have authorized Mr. Sinclair, the Air Administrator, to take actions, such as pilot separation, if in his judgment after receiving these detailed reports he feels the situation is reaching a point where there could be incidents or situations which might lead to a safety problem. We are trying to anticipate, to preempt, to provide a preventive situation just to make clear such a situation would not happen, and to give a very clear signal to the airline that it must resolve that issue in order that safety will not be threatened.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Minister of Transport. He must be aware that public confidence throughout the Altantic region in EPA has eroded substantially in recent months. It has to do not just with safety but also with the level of service being provided by EPA. Flights are being cancelled summarily, departures and arrivals are consistently late, and even the airplanes themselves leave an awful lot to be desired. In light of those facts, would the Minister be prepared to launch a full scale ministerial investigation of Eastern Provincial Airways, not just a task force having to do with safety, to satisfy himself and the public as well that Eastern Provincial Airways is meeting its firm commitments to the Atlantic Provinces under federal charter as the regional carrier.


Mr. Speaker, I think we have been taking a number of extraordinary measures over the past several months to ensure that the operations of Eastern Provincial Airways will not be affected by the labour dispute through which it has been going. We have to be very careful. I know my colleague, the Minister of Labour, has been very watchful of the situation that, as a federal Government, we do not intervene in that labour dispute directly, which is a matter that must be resolved between the parties to the dispute.
The basic principle of our labour relations conduct has been that we do not try to come down one side or the other in such a dispute. We have to honour that requirement until or unless it gets to the point, as I said in response to the previous question, it may begin to impinge upon areas that would threaten public safety. That is why we took the preventive actions that we have taken. If there are service problems, those are problems that can be clearly brought to the attention of the Canadian Transport Commission, and that is why the CTC is there.


The Minister is ultimately responsible.


The CTC is in the position of being responsible for judging whether public convenience and necessity under the National Transportation Act are being met. If there are charges that they are not being met, then they can be brought forward by individuals, or by provincial authorities, or others. I think that is really the course of action to take. If the Hon. Member can cite a number of incidents that he would like to bring to my attention, I will be quite happy to take them to the chairman of that commission and he can follow through. I think we also want to be careful that you do not undo or injure the service of that airline because it is a very important ingredient in the whole transportation system of the Atlantic region, and you have to strike a balance.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister has missed the point entirely. There is overwhelming evidence that we have here an airline under federal charter in deep, deep trouble, to the point where the very safety of the travelling public is being jeopardized.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, what will it take for the Minister of Transport-a major catastrophe-to take his responsibilities seriously? He cannot slough this off to the Canadian Transport Commission. He is ultimately responsible. Will the Minister accept his responsibilities as Minister of Transport to investigate a very serious problem that is threatening the safety of the travelling public? What will it take for him to accept those responsibilities if the evidence has missed his attention already?


Mr. Speaker, I would say the first question of responsibility is a responsibility of Members of Parliament in this House not to engage in sensational tactics in which the last Member of Parliament just engaged.


It was a CBC report.


This is not a matter with which to play sensational politics. It is a serious issue.
1 have outlined the steps we have taken to provide a preventive system to ensure that there will not be safety problems. I have authorized the Air Administrator to take immediate action if any of the reports he receives from his team in any way suggest there is a jeopardy. The kind of statement just made by the Hon. Member really does not do him any good, the airline, or the people travelling. That is the most irresponsible statement I have heard by a Member of Parliament in a long, long time in this House.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. It follows on questions posed by the Hon. Member for Hamilton Mountain in the last couple of days. The Minister of late has been travelling across the land touting the recovery which he sees as presently being under way. In some big business sectors, it no doubt exists. Yet today there are more than four million Canadians living in poverty, 900,000 more than there were two years ago. What does the Minister see in this much ballyhooed recovery for these four million and more poor people?


Mr. Speaker, if the Hon. Member looks at the statistics for 1983 he will find that once again real wages, that is, wages after inflation and taxes, will have grown for workers in our country. Also he will find that, despite the fact we had a very deep recession and had to cut in a number of areas, we have maintained support for full indexation of the transfer payments for those who are really in need, the poor, is spite of the fact that we were asking others in the community to accept limitations on their wage increases or on the prices they wanted to charge.
I have indicated that, as resources become available, as far as the Government is concerned we would try to direct those resources toward helping those most in need. The Hon. Member knows that in the Speech from the Throne, for instance, the Government committed itself to trying to find ways of further increasing the support for single persons on the Guaranteed Income Supplement, so as to try to bring them at least above the level of poverty.
These are the measures the Government has taken and has announced in the past. When the Government is ready to proceed with those measures, I hope they will have the support of the Hon. Member.


Increases in real wages are only good for those people who are getting wages.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister speaks again of the safety nets which are in place. Yesterday in the House the Hon. Member for Hamilton Mountain made the case to the Minister that one of those safety nets, unemployment insurance, has loopholes so big that 25 per cent of those in need have fallen through the net. If the Minister would care to come to my constituency, I could introduce him to many such people. Will he assure the House that his Budget due in just a few weeks will patch up those loopholes, offering some hope and some income to those who are now ineligible for unemployment insurance?
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I do not need to visit the Hon. Member's constituency to know about such situations. I have some in my own constituency, and I meet such people on a regular basis. I will take the Hon. Member's views as representations.


Mr. Speaker, I will put my final question in very simple language. What does the Minister propose to do for all those Canadians who are presently without jobs, with no prospects of jobs, with no unemployment insurance or any other source of income? What are those people to do?


Mr. Speaker, it is not what I can do. It is a question of what we can do as a country. As a country we have to work together quite closely- governments, labour, and management-to ensure that we will be more competitive, more productive, and more efficient, and that we will meet and beat tough competition around the world. If we succeed in doing this, Canada will grow and there will be more jobs for all those who do not have jobs at the present time. This is a collective effort which has to be developed between all economic agents of the country.
I am very happy in that regard to have seen this morning that labour and management-all major unions and major business groups in Canada-have agreed to sit down together to study ways and means of improving the labour market, productivity, and employment growth. They have invited governments to participate in that national effort. It is an important step toward ensuring that the Canadian economy will indeed again be a leading economy in the world.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Revenue who has appointed an investigator to look into the Tax Department and periodically give the Minister secret reports. I presume that the Minister has established some schedule for the receipt of these secret reports from the investigator. Will he tell the House of Commons when he expects to receive the secret report on tax collection quotas, when he expects to receive the secret report on the special hit list the Department has established for celebrity taxpayers, and when he expects to receive the secret report on the Government's raid on private bank accounts? Will he also tell the House whether, upon receipt of these secret reports, and in the interest of the House of Commons and the public of Canada in knowing what is going on in the Tax Department, he will agree to publish and table those secret reports immediately?

January 27, 1984
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, 1 am a little surprised at the Hon. Member's question, and especially at the way it was formulated. First of all, I have already informed the House that as soon as I receive Mr. Farlinger's final report, 1 shall table it in the House and it will be made public.
I would also like to say, in answer to the Hon. Member's question, that Mr. Farlinger is busy assembling a multi-disciplinary team that will examine the very considerable mandate he has been given for his study, and as soon as that is finished, he will start on the actual study.
Still in answer to the Hon. Member's question I intend to meet Mr. Farlinger next week, if possible, to discuss how he is to keep me informed and advise me of the progress of his study. I may add it is not a matter of having secret reports. The purpose of this study is to correct certain situations, if necessary, and to do so as quickly as possible. The reports will probably be in the form of discussions and advice given at meetings between Mr. Farlinger and myself.


Mr. Speaker, what we have is an indication that there will be no formal reports that might even leak into the public. Not only will the Government not release them, they might not even be leaked. There will just be discussions between the Minister, who is the man most guilty with respect to what is going on in the Tax Department, and his investigator.


Hear, hear!


The Minister tells us that he will submit a final report to the House. He has already said that that final report will not be ready for a year. In a year's time, that Minister will not be in this House of Commons.
This issue is far too important for the Government to carry on another coverup. I ask the Minister whether he has the courage to recommend to his House Leader that there be established a special parliamentary committee to look into this question which is daily causing pain and outrage to constituents across the country. I have a letter here. Every member of this House is receiving correspondence every day talking about the rudeness, abuses, and pressures being brought upon individual Canadians. Why can we not have a parliamentary committee to look into this question? Why is there a coverup?
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I may remind the Hon. Member that if he really feels that certain situations must be corrected, and if he honestly wants such corrective action to be taken quickly, he must agree that it is important for me to get advice as quickly as
possible and to be able to discuss the matter with my senior officials in order to correct the situation, if necessary.
I also wish to point out to the Hon. Member that he is not only attacking the reputation of a person who has just been entrusted with the responsibility for a study but also the reputation of the firm that will be conducting the study. If the Hon. Member does not trust Mr. Farlinger and Woods Gordon, he should come right out and say so.
I myself am confident that these people are honest, that they are competent professionals who will do a thorough job, and that Mr. Farlinger's report will contain his findings and recommendations, and that report will be made public.
The next point, Mr. Speaker-and here we have the megaphone for the Leader of the Opposition-


Why not a parliamentary committee? [Translation]


-suggesting a Parliamentary Committee, which is my next point. Mr. Speaker, I have already said that I wanted an investigation and speedy action if I am advised on short notice that certain situations should be corrected. The approach we have selected is to obtain advice quickly so that with departmental officials, we can take steps to correct any situation that, according to Mr. Farlinger, ought to be corrected.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister wants rapid action, but he will not get the report for a year, so it is going to be "rapid" a year late. That will not help the thousands of Canadians who are now victims of his Department.
The Minister has had advice. Advice has been coming from all corners of this House for a month now. All he has done is appoint an investigator who gives him secret reports. This matter is too important for this Government to engage again in the kind of coverup that has become its trademark. I ask him again what he is afraid of. Why is he afraid to have the House of Commons of Canada look into this question which touches the lives of Canadians, indeed which touches the very trust which is essential to make a tax system work?


Hear, hear!
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, according to the media, the Hon. Member has had time to go to academic institutions, I forget in what capacity. Perhaps he should consider dropping law and taking up logic, which might help him to straighten out his thinking, which has a tendency to twist the facts-
January 27, 1984


Will the Hon. Minister please answer the question.


-and understand what the facts are. He said that we do not want to act. Well, I have asked Mr. Farlin-ger, to give any advice he has on a regular basis, and I repeat for the benefit of the Hon. Member and the House and all Canadian taxpayers that I want to have this advice quickly, in order to be able to take corrective action if necessary. There is no question of wanting to cover up anything, Mr. Speaker, on the contrary. Every day in the House during Oral Question Period, 1 am available to answer questions by Hon. Members, and I try to answer them as clearly as possible, and if the Hon. Member's mind is too obtuse to understand the answers, it is not my fault.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Yesterday in St. John's, Newfoundland, the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources in a statement said that during last year when the province ordered the rigs in during severe weather conditions an industry official stated that he was left with no doubt that the Petroleum Incentive Payments would not be applicable to any cost incurred by his company during the period that drilling operations were suspended in response to the provincial stop-drilling order. Are the companies under any threat of recrimination or threat to withhold payments if in fact they obey the province's ban which is now in effect on winter drilling, in the absence of adequate search and rescue?
Hon. Jean Chretien (Minister of Energy, Mines and
Resources): Mr. Speaker, there is no threat against anyone. There are federal regulations which the companies are following. They make their own decision on when they will operate the rigs. It is not for an armchair admiral to decide. Anybody who knows about marine operations knows that it is up to the captain of the rig to make a decision, not someone who is trying to use blackmail against the federal Government. It is up to the company to make the decision. They are paid for drilling. I hope they will continue drilling.


Mr. Speaker, there are 500 Canadians out there working under very hazardous conditions. The Minister is putting their lives in danger by his partisan attitude to save face on this matter.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the Minister if he is prepared to allow the rigs to obey the provincial ban on Winter drilling until there has been an assessment of the industry charge-not the Government's charge-because there is consent in the industry that search and rescue capabilities are inadequate to meet the emergencies that could arise during severe winter drilling conditions. Is he prepared to do that?


Mr. Speaker, the search and rescue facilities have been increased this year compared to last year. Last year the Government of Newfoundland found that the search and rescue was good enough to give them permission to drill in the Winter. This Winter we have improved search and rescue, but in that business it is never enough.
The companies, with the federal Departments of National Defence, and Energy, and others, and with the presence of the people representing the Government of Newfoundland, in the Fall discussed for weeks the improvements that are in place today. It was only many weeks after the decision was made that Mr. Marshall tried to blackmail the companies. I am glad to see today that the companies are not being blackmailed. On top of that, there was a radio program in St. John's a few minutes ago and more than 58 per cent of the people support the federal Government in that.


An open-line radio show?


They do not go for the business of not respecting the judgment of the people who go to sea. Nobody is obliged to go to sea. If some people find it too dangerous, they can stay on shore.


Oh, oh!


They do not stay on shore but go out and earn a living as they should do.


Say that on an open-line show to sustain your argument.


The Hon. Member for Hamilton Mountain (Mr. Deans).


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. That was quite incredible.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have a question for the Minister of Finance. He will know that the statement just released by the major oil companies in Canada indicates that in the year 1983 they enjoyed an increased profit

January 27, 1984
Oral Questions
margin to the level of about $1.1 billion. I would point out that these are the same oil companies that receive $1.1 billion, or perhaps even more, from the Governement in PIP grants. Yesterday the Minister asked me where we would get the money to pay for the people who are presently unemployed and who do not get unemployment insurance, who are not eligible for welfare, and who cannot feed their families. Why does the Government not redirect this money that is currently being given to already prosperous operations, to those who need it most?
[ Translation]


In my opinion, Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member does not quite understand how the oil industry operates.
When he talks about the overall profits of the oil industry, he should keep in mind the investments made in that industrial sector as well as the yield of those investments. He would come to the conclusion that the yield on the money invested is not excessive when one considers the facts and analyzes the profit-investment ratio. As to the Government grants, the Hon. Member will recall that we have discontinued the old system by eliminating tax incentives and replacing them by a grant system for Canadian businesses, which now receive more generous grants as an incentive to promote the oil industry.
The Party of the Hon. Member boasts that it wants to foster the growth of the Canadian industry. That is exactly what we have done through our tax reform in the oil sector. We have done away with tax incentives and replaced them by equivalent grants especially earmarked for the Canadian industry.
That is why I think that my colleague has a rather vague notion of what has been going on in the oil industry.


Mr. Speaker, 1 am talking about fairness. It is unfair to tax Canadian taxpayers to provide money for multinational oil companies whose profits are already considerable. Those profits are derived primarily from Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister if it is not reasonable to think that we have an obligation to those hard working Canadians who have no jobs, and who, as a result of the Government's policies, find that they do not have the possibility of getting a job, who cannot afford to meet their commitments to their families, and who are in absolute desperation?
Dammit, is there no way the Government can find money to redirect to pay for those people's needs?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member has a strong way of arguing in favour of the unemployed. If I were to follow his advice I would end up throwing tens of thousands of Canadian workers in the oil and gas industry, out on the street-


You did that already.


-in order supposedly to help people who are unemployed at the present time. The way to help the unemployed is not by creating more unemployment all over the country in the oil and gas industry.


The Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Justice and concerns the interpretation his Department gave of Section 23(3)(b) of the Charter of Rights before the Ontario Court of Appeal last week.
Considering the rather restrictive and ambiguous interpretations being given by a number of observers regarding the rights of the minority to manage and control school facilities, could the Minister clarify his interpretation of Section 23(3)(b) in order to clear up once and for all the position of the federal Government on this matter, and finally, could he inform the House whether the Government intends to present additional briefs to the Court that would remove any ambiguity that may have been present in the federal interpretation of this section?


The first part of the Hon. Member's question bothers me somewhat, but the second part should be in order. The Minister of Justice.


Mr. Speaker, there are two principles in the federal Government's position on minority-language education. With the exception of Section 93 of the Constitution, the provincial Government has no obligation to share jurisdiction over education with its residents. The provinces therefore have full discretion to either keep authority over education within the Ministry of Education or to share some of that authority with School Boards and parents in the province.
Should a province decide to share its authority over education with its residents, it would then be under the obligation to ensure equal treatment of the majority and minority groups in the province. In the light of my hon. friend's representation, I shall certainly reconsider our Government's presentation before the Court, but as yet I have no indication that the Court has any difficulty interpreting our position.
January 27, 1984


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of the Environment. I am sure he is very angry at the statement made by the President of the United States that he is only going to approve further study up to some $55 million for acid rain rather than something concrete. Has he discussed this with the Secretary of State for External Affairs and with our ambassador in Washington in order to have them make further representations to the U.S. Government about how important and disturbing this is to all Canadians?


Mr. Speaker, we are going to continue to make representations on this matter on behalf of millions of Canadians who are concerned, and on behalf of the interests that are being damaged in our economy. I am referring to forests, the fisheries, tourism, and even our cities. I would also like to point to the fact that there are millions of Americans who are affected by acid rain and who are very distressed by the announcement made the other night by their President.


As a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, I am wondering if the Minister has any further plans for something new which he is going to be able to present to the Canadian people to show that we mean business? I am aware there may be a reduction in automobile emissions and less leaded gas. However, has the Minister any new plans or ideas which will help us to sell this to the United States because we have a great many supporters over there, as the Minister is aware?


Mr. Speaker, I agree with the conclusion of the Hon. Member. I am working on plans, and I will announce them at the appropriate time. I hope it will be in the not too distant future.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Revenue. The Minister will recognize that of late budgets have really become an analysis of a change in the Income Tax Act. In that light, having regard to some of the comments which have been made in the House, has the Minister placed himself in a position, after reviewing his departmental performance, to make specific recommendations to the Minister of Finance for his forthcoming Budget which will bring some relief to the taxpayers for whom Hon. Members on this side of the House have been
Oral Questions
speaking, so that that relief might come prior to the expiration of the year for his administrative report?


Mr. Speaker, in his question the Hon. Member mentioned the responsibility of the Minister of Finance for tax policy. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance announced that there had been many consultations and that these were being continued. Consultations are also taking place with his Cabinet colleagues, and although 1 cannot discuss the nature of the recommendations I made to the Minister, I did mention certain concerns.


I am encouraged by the possibility that the impact on the Minister may have some effect.


Mr. Speaker, let me deal with something specifically. About two weeks ago I made a recommendation in the House which seemed to have the approval of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Finance. It related to the shortening of the time by which the Minister's Department might delay a decision after an objection has been filed by a taxpayer who has been assessed. Of course the great problem, as the Minister will recognize, is that when assessments are issued the tax must be paid, and it may be some long time before a matter in dispute may be adjudicated upon. That period surely should be shortened in the interests of justice for the taxpayer. I am wondering whether that kind of recommendation which I made, and which seems to have some support on this side of the House, would in fact find its way into the recommendations which the Minister is making to the Minister of Finance?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance is in the House. He has heard the Hon. Member's representations, and I am sure that he will consider them.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport who is aware that his Department issued a memorandum on January 3 expanding its own Affirmative Action Program to include more than women, indigenous people, and the disabled. Will the Minister indicate whether the strategy of his Department for the visible minorities will include more than the black people of Nova Scotia? If not, could he indicate the rationale for that type of directive in his Department?

January 27, 1984
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, the directive is part of the general program of the Government to apply the Affirmative Action Program in all Departments. It is based upon the trial experiments which were previously undertaken over a two-year period in three Departments. We are simply fulfilling the requirements and obligations under that general Affirmative Action Program, but doing so in a very enthusiastic spirit, because I believe it is one of the most important and necessary initiatives which we can take to ensure equality in the work place.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the same Minister. Would he indicate what type of consideration he is prepared to give within his own Department to include all visible minorities in the work place analysis which he will be doing this year, with the intention of including all visible minorities in that Affirmative Action Program within the Department?


Mr. Speaker, that might be a question which is better directed to the President of the Treasury Board who has the over-all responsibility for the application of the program. It is my understanding that visible minorities are part of the affirmative action targets. They would be included in both the analysis and in the direction. I would like to point out that, in terms of my own Department, we have initiated special programs for recruitment and training in areas such as northern Canada, and other remote areas, to ensure that local populations are being given an opportunity to break down some of the barriers which previously prevented them from getting employment in our Public Service.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance, if I can get his attention. In a letter in 1981 to the Minister of Finance, who was then the federal Minister of Energy, the Ontario Minister of Energy requested assistance from the federal Government to establish an institute for hydrogen and electrochemical systems. Following an initial period of co-operation, the National Research Council was directed to proceed with a plan which resulted in the establishment of an electrochemical institute in Shawinigan, Quebec, on January 20, 1984.
Would the Minister of Energy now admit that he blackballed the Ontario initiative and that he deliberately misled the House, when on December 9-


Order. It is unparliamentary to allege that an Hon. Member has deliberately misled the House. Would the Hon. Member phrase his question differently?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Minister if he will deny having misled the House on December 9, 1981, when he denied having directed the National Research Council to establish the Shawinigan institute?


As Minister of Energy, Mr. Speaker, I would like to reply to the Hon. Member's question. There were no funds available for such a development in the National Research Council and funds were made available from the La Prade area. In 1978 there was a cancellation of the La Prade heavy water plant. There was a fund established for the area, and it was out of these funds that the money was transferred to the NRC-


Porkbarrelling!


-to build a lab in the area of La Prade, and that included the city of Shawinigan.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, in answer to his response to my first question. Will the Minister confirm that on January 20, when he announced the establishment of the Shawinigan institute, that planning for this had been going on for two full years, as stated in his press release, and that the decision was made six months after the Ontario initiative began and after it had been refused the co-operation of the National Research Council?
Second, I would like to ask the Minister if he knows what electrochemistry means, and that the institute which the Minister established, using federal funds, is in direct competition with the Ontario initiative?
Finally, the Minister has indicated that this is the first electrochemical institute in Canada. In fact, because of his failure to co-operate and negotiate with the Provinces of Ontario and Quebec, we now have three "first" institutes of electrochemical and hydrogen system studies in Canada. This has happened precisely because of the failure of the federal Government to bring this important area of study under one roof in order to develop this important technology in the interests of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I have been the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources for 17 months. I have not had any direct communication from the Minister of Energy of Ontario on that subject. The NRC was interested in establishing a lab of that nature, and there was some La Prade money available. It was absolutely normal to offer these funds for the development of that lab in an area where the first electrochemical industry in Canada was established at the beginning of the last century.
January 27, 1984


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Mines I will direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister, and it relates to jobs in the mining industry. We have a tantalum mine at Bernic Lake in the Lac du Bonnet area of Manitoba, a byproduct of which is lithium. There is now a market for lithium, especially in ceramics in the French market. The only competition is from the United States and Zimbabwe. There has been an application to the federal Government for an experimental project to see whether Canada could get into this market. This would result in the hiring of a number of people now unemployed because of the situation in the mining industry. Could the Minister find out what the federal Government's response is to that initiative?


Mr. Speaker, this is not a subject I was exposed to in recent times, and my hon. friend understands that. But it is an interesting one, and I will research it thoroughly as soon as I can.


I have the honour to inform the House that the petition presented by the Hon. Member for Vaudreuil (Mr. Herbert), by filing with the Clerk of the House on Thursday, January 26, 1984, meets the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order for information purposes. When you stopped me in the middle of my remarks under Standing Order 21, you said something about an attack. I was simply making a criticism, which is done every day in this House. Does this mean we are no longer able to criticize the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) for things that he has done?


When Standing Order 21 was adopted as a substitute for Standing Order 43, guidelines were prepared for the Chair. They were circulated to all Hon. Members and they included the following.
The use of this opportunity will be regulated by the discretion of the Chair and Members will be expected to observe certain guidelines. The opportunity is not intended to be used for making personal attacks, conveying congratulatory mes-
Tabling of Documents
sages, reciting poetry or for anything other than serious purposes.
I do not wish to suggest the Hon. Member was not serious, but the Chair would have considerable misgivings if Standing Order 21 meant rude attacks on both the Leader of Opposition, the Leader of the Government or the Leader of the NDP.


All Members.


The nature of the presentation obviously calls for a judgment, and in the judgment of the Chair this was a personal attack, not an attack relating to a Member's capacity, office or things that were done. Knowing this is Parliament, a place where opinions are expressed and people are not always polite to each other, the Chair invites Hon. Members to observe the rule of falling short of personal attacks on Members of this or the other place.


Mr. Speaker, I wonder if you would mind reading the "blues" because I had no intention of making a personal attack. It was a criticism but not a personal attack. There is nothing personal about it. I think if you read the "blues" you will see that is so.


The Chair paid very careful attention and there was a reference to someone being divine and so on. That comes very close to being a personal attack.


You mean he is not?


Taylor believes he is divine.


Further to a request made by the Hon. Member for Hamilton Mountain (Mr. D