Order, please. Pursuant to the House Order adopted yesterday, I recognize the Hon. Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Hees).


Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege as Minister of Veterans Affairs to remind all Hon. Members that next Sunday is Remembrance Day. This year we have been forcefully reminded of just how much we owe to those who served Canada in war. Last June, millions around the world looked back 40 years and recalled the D-Day landings. The role of our three services in that magnificent undertaking won further honour for our country.
Other nations have shown their appreciation for Canadian servicemen and women this year. Members of the first Special Service Force, that unique unit made up of Canadian and American soldiers, were again hailed as heroes at a special ceremony commemorating the liberation of Rome. Other Canadians went back to Belgium to be greeted and applauded as the men who had restored freedom to that country 40 years ago.
Whether Canadians gather at the National War Memorial or before a village cenotaph, they will also be remembering all those who never got to know the final outcome, the 110,000 Canadians who lost their lives in the two World Wars and in Korea. As a nation, we can only offer them our thankful prayers. However, for the 700,000 veterans living in Canada today, and for the widows and dependants of those who died, we can demonstrate that our gratitude goes beyond words.
Many returned home from the wars to face a lifetime of pain or inconvenience. Widows and orphans were left to cope with a lonely future. Even today the rigours of wartime service are only just catching up to veterans in their advancing years. It is impossible to put a price on these legacies of war, but we can all agree that veterans have earned the right to be treated graciously and generously by the Government of Canada.


Hear, hear!


Particularly as they get on in years, our veterans are entitled to prompt and courteous service. Men and women who, in their youth, were expected to obey without question, should not now have to struggle against the "ifs", "but's", "although's" and "notwithstanding's" of officialdom. In all
their dealings with my Department, veterans will receive the benefit of any doubt.


Hear, hear!


I know members of all Parties in this House share these sentiments. The men and women we will be saluting on Remembrance Day unsparingly volunteered themselves when Canada was in danger. In return we must regard them as a very special group worthy of our unsparing attention each day of every year.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, as spokesman for the Official Opposition, I too wish to pay tribute to those whose memory we shall be honouring next Sunday.
Once again, across this country, Canadians will be asked to pause for a moment and remember the sacrifices made by generations of young Canadians who shed their blood and gave their lives in the defence of freedom, in two World Wars and the Korean War.
Time goes by and in passing, has marked the faces of those who survived those battles. The ages of those who died are marked for all time on gravestones in military cemeteries in France, Holland, Italy, Great Britain, Hong Kong or beneath the timeless waves.
Since the end of the Korean War in 1953, Canada has become a nation of peace. The concerns of Canadians have been directed towards peace, employment and growth. For many of those who gave their lives, the service was their first job. The promise of youth was snuffed out in the mud of Flanders, the rugged mountains of Italy, in Holland's flooded fields and in the waters of the North Atlantic. In death they have become a part of our history, for all time.
On each Remembrance Day, we attempt to find words that will give meaning to the supreme sacrifice made by Canadians in defence of freedom. We live in a free country, where the equality of all Canadians has never been questioned. We live in a country where Canadians are free to pursue their goals as they see fit. That is the true meaning of their sacrifice. [English]
The war memorials in the cities and towns of Canada, the wreaths placed upon them on Remembrance Day, and the minute's silence serve as reminders of the cost paid in full by the young men and women of Canada who answered freedom's

November 9, 1984
Remembrance Day
call. That our nation itself is still open and is still seen as a land of opportunity is a lasting monument to their sacrifice.
[DOT] (mo)
Every year, fewer and fewer Canadians can recall from personal experience the deeds of 1914-18. Time has also begun to thin the ranks of 1939-45. They represent two generations of Canadians who defined Canada's nationhood with their valour and their blood.
Lord Byng, who commanded Canadian forces at Vimy Ridge in 1917, said that out of that battle "was forged a nation tempered by fire".
Out of the fire of the Second World War emerged a Canada able and ready to take its place as an equal among the independent nations of the world. And from the cataclysm of 1939 to 1945, came a Canada dedicated to peace.

The tragedies of war have created a firm commitment among all Canadians to peace and justice, for the people of this country and for all mankind. There comes a time when we must be prepared to defend our principles with our lives. Canadians have made this commitment in all parts of the world.
Mr. Speaker, when we pause for a moment of silence Sunday, let us promise to emulate their dedication to this country. That is the very least we owe them.


Mr. Speaker, it is an honour for me to join with my two colleagues, and Members on all sides of the House, to remind all Canadians that Sunday, November 11, is Remembrance Day.
Sunday will mark the sixty-sixth anniversary of the ceasefire in the First World War. I suggest that the House pause a moment to reflect on the sacrifices made by Canadian men and women in that holocaust, in the Second World War, and in the Korean War. Our feeling for them is deep and it is everlasting.
More than 100,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen and women served together and died for the ultimate goal, the goal of preserving our democracy and our country.
In these days, when many Canadians are concerned about the unity of our country, it is well to remind ourselves of those who gave their lives for its survival. These men and women fought, not for personal gain nor for glory or conquest. They fought for their homeland; this was their love. Duty was their creed. Truly they are Canada's unforgotten.
I would like to remind Hon. Members of the reference engraved on the Memorial Arch which connects the Veterans Memorial Buildings here in Ottawa. It reads: "All these were honoured in their generations and were the glory of their times". As Canadians we have a special obligation to perpetuate the memory of those who gave their lives for Canada. Let us in our time and in our way be worthy of them.
Before I conclude my remarks I would like to read something which was sent to my office a few days ago. It is entitled "A Prayer for Today", and was found among the effects of a Canadian infantry sergeant who perished outside Ortona, Italy, on a day in December, 1943. It reads:
Today a bird sang for me. Today I leaned against the strong trunk of a living tree ... So, I am not alone. When I get back to Canada I'll remember this. I will cherish all of life, for all life is really one. I will never again be a destroyer ... This is my dream, that we will learn to live in harmony, not between man alone, but with the whole living world.
Let us, the living, keep the faith of this Canadian sergeant so that the incentive of this day may speed us onward and toward a better world of peace, freedom, and justice.
Our purpose is not to glorify war, nor was it the purpose of those who died in war. This is also a moment when we should give thought to thousands of our fellow beings whose lives are ones of intense suffering. They look to us in the developed world for assistance and relief. We have a responsibility to do everything in our power to ensure that those who went forward in the fight for peace did indeed fight the war to end all wars. Let us remember them.


In the tradition of the House, I ask Hon. Members and those persons in the galleries to join us in a minute of silence, in remembrance.
[Whereupon the House stood in silence.]


Mr. Speaker, during the recent election campaign the Prime Minister promised "jobs, jobs, jobs". The Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) alluded last night to the fact that his Government would attempt to be compassionate. But what do we have, Mr. Speaker, except "cuts, cuts, cuts"? This budget was conceived probably in Washington and Bay Street, and directly affects the poor regions of Canada, in particular the cuts as they relate to the Petroleum Incentives Program-$250 million.
The Minister of Finance laughs, but the Canadian people are not laughing as a result of those cuts. The Canada Student Summer Employment Program had an $85 million cut; RRAP was reduced by $29 million; DRIE has a reduction in excess of $175 million. Small businesses in Atlantic Canada, western Canada, and parts of Quebec, have had another cut-back. During the recent federal election campaign the Tories promised that they would reintroduce VIA Rail runs. What hap-
November 9, 1984

pened there? A reduction of $93 million! Employment assistance and entitlement had a reduction of $200 million. With respect to national defence, another great Tory promise, there is a reduction of $154 million.
What about the general industrial training program? It had a $40 million cut. The young workers exchange program had another $3 million cut. The forestry research project in Newfoundland is cancelled for Corner Brook. The health and welfare office for Sydney is cancelled. The office building in Halifax is cancelled.
There is no compassion in this Government. There is no compassion in this Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney), and in this Minister of Finance. It is Reagan economics. The Canadian people have been betrayed, and the Government will feel the wrath of the Canadian people as it moves forward in its mandate, because we will challenge it, Mr. Speaker, at every opportunity.


Mr. Speaker, I represent the County of Perth, a county that within its boundaries demonstrates everything good in Canadian agriculture. We produce more pork than any other county in Ontario. We are second only to Oxford in milk production. We have a large feather industry. We grow small grains, beans, corn, and fruit, on land which is very productive.
We have a moderate climate where crop failure is rare. Our people are family farmers, hard working and industrious, but I must report, Mr. Speaker, that many farmers in Perth are in trouble. They have not been ravaged by droughts, insects or disease; they have been ravaged by inflation, which the Liberal Government brought upon us, which caused them to over invest in order to protect their livelihood. They have been ravaged by interest rates which are a reflection of our deficit rather than the earning value of our dollar. They have been ravaged by low farm commodity prices and falling farm values. They have been victims of government policies and this cannot continue.
I want to tell my colleagues that farmers in Canada are becoming desperate and need assistance. The move by the Farm Credit Corporation to stall foreclosure is a welcome relief but does not solve the problems. Farmers are a tough breed, but they have been trampled on-


I regret to advise the Hon. Member that his time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, when the Government campaigned, it promised jobs, jobs, jobs. It promised hundreds of thousands of jobs overnight, and a new, bright future for Canadians. Now that it is ensconced with a bloated majority, it delivers not jobs but cuts, cuts, cuts.


Oh, oh!


Is there an echo in here?


I want to say, Mr. Speaker, as one example-


Order, please. Members are normally entitled to make their statements without a great deal of interruption.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I was just pointing out that one area for cuts which the Government is making, in the neighbourhood of $277 million, is that of public works. We usually increase spending on public works at a time of high unemployment.
In order to understand what the Government calls savings, we need to know several things. We need to know how many jobs have been lost through these cuts, jobs in building these projects, and jobs in the private sector activity which has lost support. What are the increased costs of deferring these projects? If we have to build these projects in two, three, four or five years, how much more is it going to cost the taxpayer then? We need to know from the Government quite explicitly whether any of these projects will be needed in the future. I can think of one project in Winnipeg having to do with the export of new technology-


I regret to interrupt the Hon. Member but his time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, through you I appeal to all Members in this place for immediate action on Canada's greatest environmental malady. The horrors of acid precipitation are too familiar to most Canadians. The Government of Canada has been delinquent in pursuing concrete measures for acid rain abatement. I hereby advocate the reconstitution by Parliament of the subcommittee on acid rain which officially fulfilled its mandate in June of this year. The subcommittee is gone, but the problem is not.
As the Member of Parliament in an area suffering greatly from the ravages of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions, I make this appeal on behalf of my constituents, and in the interest of areas like mine. During the past four years of investigation, the subcommittee on acid rain presented over 50 recommendations to improve the environment. I fear those

November 9, 1984
recommendations will fade into a polluted sunset if the subcommittee is not reconstituted to follow them through.
Action here at home, and negotiations with the United States, are crucial to the uncertain future of many regions affected in Canada. By way of illustration, North American smokestacks and exhaust pipes produce enough S02 and NOx to fill a freight train spanning the distance from Vancouver to London, England, each year. Can we turn our backs on that?


Mr. Speaker, never before in the course of Canadian history has a Government issued an economic statement that was so unabashedly regressive. This is Government for the rich, by the rich, and of the rich. In one fell swoop the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) has torn away the facade of concern professed by the Conservative Party for the less fortunate in Canadian society. It also makes an absolute mockery of the syrupy promises the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) made during the election campaign.
This Jekyll and Hyde manoeuvre will not go unnoticed by the Canadian nation. It is a tragedy of the first order because, behind all the numbers, Mr. Speaker, are people, average Canadians from coast to coast. The cuts will mean that 126,000 Canadians will be left high and dry in federal job and training programs. Untold thousands of unemployed will face reduced benefits, and 50,000 will no longer receive benefit cheques at all.
Programs for youth and students have been cut to ribbons. Eighty thousand summer jobs for students were wiped out. The slashing of one industrial training program alone will mean that 43,000 individuals, mostly young people will have had their hopes dashed as far as improving their job skills and future employment prospects are concerned. Amazingly, Mr. Speaker, we are told that these are just the first steps, there is more to come and "you ain't seen nothing yet".
Our Party will fight the Minister of Finance every step of the way on his Draconian measures. Liberals have always stood up for the underprivileged in our society. We have stood up for labour, the elderly, youth, and the handicapped, and we are not about to give up now.


Mr. Speaker, last year the Public Accounts Committee considered the observations by the Auditor General on the financial statements of the Government of Canada. The House will note that the Auditor General, in his report on the financial statement dated March 31, 1983, qualified his report with four reservations due to government accounting practices. It was his opinion that the stated accounting policies of the Liberal Government of the day were inappropriate for a fair presentation of the accounts of the Government of Canada.
In its first report dated March 13, 1984, the Public Accounts Committee urged both parties to settle their differences in order that the Canadian people could have proper confidence in the Government's financial statements. Last evening the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) stated:
In order to provide a clear picture of the country's finances, I am announcing tonight that the Government is prepared to implement most of the suggestions made by the Auditor General.
The House welcomes the statement of the Minister of Finance and his efforts to provide the people of Canada with true and accurate accounting information.


Mr. Speaker, during the recent election campaign the Conservative Party, in response to questions from the Canadian Conference of the Arts, stated:
We are committed to real growth and federal contributions to the cultural sector.... to maintaining federal funding for the agencies and councils in line with inflation-
Despite that promise, last night the Conservative Government announced a $75 million cut for the CBC and a $3.5 million cut for the Canada Council, the very agencies that the Conservative Party promised it would not attack. Both of these organizations are crucial to the development of culture in our country; both have been the pillars of Canadian cultural initiatives.
It is presently very unclear what will be sacrificed and how many jobs will be involved as a result of these cut-backs. The Minister should tell us whether Canadian TV production will be reduced-only the CBC does such production-whether minority language services will be cut, or whether there will perhaps be additional reductions in regional production facilities. Will the Canada Council be forced to cut funding to such cultural events as the Stratford Festival, or its already small grants to individual artists and writers?
The Government has reneged on its promises and broken its word. We ask the Minister to convene immediately the Standing Committee of the House on Communications to answer some direct questions on these cuts-


I regret to inform the Hon. Member that his time has expired.
November 9, 1984


Mr. Speaker, I wish to raise a matter of national and even international significance.

As someone who worked during the last four years at the prestigious and objective Conference Board of Canada, I continuously had to live with the traumas of their accurate doom and gloom scenarios of our national economy. This morning I have already had a number of telephone calls from corporate and personal contacts that I developed during my years at the Board, from Ottawa-Carleton and from all across Canada. The consensus is that our new course of fiscal responsibility to planned prosperity is the right one.
As a member of what is now being called the southeast Conservative Caucus in the House, or the left rump, by some Hon. Members, I am proud to have the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) as one of my constituents here in Ottawa. I look forward to teaming with him to deliver his so-called backhand with athletic vigour.


Before proceeding to Oral Question Period may I call to the attention of the House the presence in our gallery of a very distinguished Canadian, our first astronaut, Mr. Marc Garneau, and his family.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, last night in the House we were finally shown the true intentions of the Government. Last night, for the first time, we were finally allowed to see the Tory right-wing hidden agenda.
During the election campaign the Prime Minister talked about "jobs, jobs, jobs"-
Oral Questions

-jobs, jobs, jobs and more jobs.

It is evident from last night's mini budget that there will be a significant loss of jobs as a result of cuts to various programs, particularly in the Atlantic Provinces, Quebec, northern Ontario, and parts of western Canada.
Did the Prime Minister consult his Minister of Finance and see a forecast given to him by his Minister of Finance before last night's statement or, more properly, budget, as to what the effect would be in terms of the net job loss in the various regions across the country? If so, would he be good enough to reveal those numbers to the House of Commons?


Mr. Speaker, the most recent numbers on employment came out this morning. Unemployment has dropped by half of a percentage point. Thirty-four thousand new jobs have been created since the new Government was sworn in.


Hear, hear!


I think that the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition would agree with me-because it is consistent with what he has said very clearly and believed in for many years- that the only way that new and durable jobs can be created is through the genius of the private sector. We are committed to doing that by positive, active, government policy.


The unemployment figures, while slightly encouraging, are still higher than they were when the right hon. gentleman took office. Any improvement seems to have been concentrated largely in Ontario and not in those areas of the country which are brutally affected by last night's budget.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has said on several occasions that our social programs are, to use his words, "a sacred trust" not to be tampered with. In light of the proposed review of assistance to the elderly, for the children of the country, for the unemployed, for housing, and for lower income Canadians, as mentioned on page 8 of the economic statement and page 71 of the document entitled "A New Direction for Canada", will the Prime Minister now reveal the total hidden agenda to dismantle the social programs of this country as part of what the Minister of Finance calls, in language fairly reminiscent of the West Coast, the "new realities"?


In fairness, Mr. Speaker, the only dismantling and radical change of social programs about which I have heard in the last year really came from the present opposition finance critic when he was seeking the leadership of his Party and proposed their abolition for a negative income tax across the country. That was a major departure.

November 9, 1984
Oral Questions
For my part and that of the Government, we remain committed to the view that universality is a fundamental key to our social development. Given the process of consultation, we are ready to examine with unions, and groups who care for the poor and disadvantaged, the proper utilization and targeting of public funds.
It seems that if one is to enter a process of consultation it is legitimate to ask how best we can use public funds on behalf of those who need them most. That is what we are trying to do in a reasonable way. This in no way jeopardizes the principle that we have referred to, but it opens the door to legitimate considerations from a number of groups designed to help those in Canada who need it most. That is what we are trying to do.


Those were not the words that the right hon. gentleman used during the election campaign.


Mr. Speaker, my final supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Finance. Would he undertake to appear with his senior officials before the Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs as soon as it can be constituted, so that he can explain to Parliament and, through us, to the country, how the economic and budgetary forecasts of that Department could alter the projected deficit for the next fiscal year-$37 billion as against $27-some billion forecast by Marc Lalonde, a difference of $9 billion-in a short period of nine months?


Mr. Speaker, the simple answer to the question is yes. However, I would ask the Right Hon. Member if he would also agree that the mess, as he described it, with which he was presented after he became Prime Minister, should also be made public to the people of Canada so that they would know exactly what the Right Hon. Member was withholding from Canadians during the course of the election campaign.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I made part of that available last night-a 2.6 per cent rate of inflation from July to September. I suppose that that is part of the mess to which the Right Hon. Member refers.
Last night the Minister provided us again with a first class example of saying one thing and doing something else. I heard the Prime Minister say in a press conference a few moments ago: "We are not going to throw money at problems". This comes on the heels of throwing $15 million into Petromont, which I mentioned last night.
The Minister of Finance said that there must be certainty and taxpayers need to know where they stand. At the same time he withholds advance rulings, destabilizing some major economic players in the economy. That is what we have seen.
We were told-again this is the rhetoric-


With great respect, the Hon. Member knows that he has the right to say something at this point but he should then proceed to a question, please.


We are told that jobs will be re-energized by the private sector.


Question.


Last night the Minister of Finance put $702 million of additional costs in the private sector. I ask the Minister to show us where, in that budget of last night or in any of his supporting documentation, the private sector is to be re-energized and jobs are to be created?


If the Hon. Member and his Leader would read their own speeches during the course of the last six months, I think it would be quite clear in their minds that the way we can get private sector job creation going is by injecting a greater degree of confidence into the system.
We have said that one of the key steps that must be taken is to reduce the size of the deficit because, in the words of both those Members, that is one of the key reasons why business confidence and consumer confidence are down. We believe that, if we do that, there will be a very, very clear link between deficit reduction on the one hand and job creation on the other.
I cannot give the Hon. Member the exact figures he wants. It is much easier to come up with the precise figures on individual spending cuts. But I am convinced that over time there will be a substantial increase in job creation by the private sector because of the very positive response that is arising from my statement of last night, on the part of the private sector.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, if our Minister of Finance is so sure of himself, why do his economic projections show an unemployment rate of nearly 9 per cent until the end of this decade? There is a
November 9, 1984

flagrant discrepancy between his statement and what we find in the documentation. Can he explain that to the House?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member has said that at the end of the decade, according to my projections, there would be a level of unemployment of 9 per cent.


You said it.


I believe the figure was 7 per cent. That 9 is the average from 1986 to 1990. But if the Hon. Member reads carefully, he will see that at the end of the decade it would be 7 per cent. I will take him through the book later, if he wishes.


Oh, oh!


What I am saying is that those projections were made on the basis that no changes, no changes in policy were made. We set out the first start to the changes that we propose to make that will re-energize the private sector and if those changes are made, and if Members opposite would co-operate in generating those changes that we will be bringing forward over the next few months, then I am convinced that that level of 7 per cent at the end of the decade will be significantly lower.


Mr. Speaker, my question to the Prime Minister flows immediately from what was just said by the Minister of Finance. The Prime Minister promised in the campaign to produce jobs, jobs, jobs, just as we have been saying on this side of the House. Last night the Minister produced a program that gave Canadians tax increases and cut-backs which will destroy thousands of jobs.
The forecasts that were made in the budget documents for the coming year included assumptions about the interest rate situation, assumptions about what would happen in the American economy, but strangely enough did not include the effects of the program that was announced last night. I assume the program was run through the economic model of the Department of Finance. Will the Prime Minister confirm that this program was run through that model? Will he confirm also that it showed it would destroy thousands of jobs, that the effect of this program would be a net increase in unemployment? Finally, as a man who promised open government, will he produce those figures for the House of Commons?


Mr. Speaker, as the Hon. Leader of the N.D.P. knows, models never can quantify consumer confidence or investment intentions.
Oral Questions


That is not the question.


The signal sent out last night is a most important precondition to economic renewal in this country. I think that it is not unfair to say that the premise, as articulated by the Hon. Member, is inaccurate.


Inaccurate?


The premise of the Hon. Member's question presupposed that this program would result in the destruction of thousands of jobs. The program as set out by the Minister of Finance last night lays the groundwork, the essential groundwork, for correcting a malady that we were left with, and lays the groundwork for economic reconstruction on a durable base that will produce the thousands and thousands of jobs we need.


It is a dream.	*


Mr. Speaker, for three days in a row in this House the Prime Minister has continued to act like a campaigning politician instead of like a Prime Minister.


Hear, hear!


He has not answered a question straight yet.


Hear, hear!


Therefore, I will switch to the Minister of Finance and put the question directly to him.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. It concerns his Department. Will he confirm that the effects of the program he announced last night were indeed run through the econometric model of his Department and that the employment effects shown by his own officials show there will be an increase in unemployment as a result of his program, not a decrease in unemployment? And if he confirms that, will the Minister give the House of Commons the figures?


The short answer is yes.


No, Mr. Speaker. The short answer is no.


Hear, hear!


The question of the Leader of the New Democratic Party is based on the wrong premise. He did not listen to the very clear answer of the Prime Minister.


I heard it.


What the Prime Minister has said is that econometric models simply cannot measure the impact of confidence.


Especially if they do not tell you what you want to hear.

November 9, 1984
Oral Questions


Take a look at B.C.


If I could answer the question, Mr. Speaker, I might be able to shed some light on the matter.
When the Budget of 1981 was brought in, there was a clear impact on business confidence and consumer confidence at that time, and that was not measured by the models at that time, by any econometric models. That had the effect of a major downturn in business confidence and in the economy. The reverse, I am convinced, is going to happen as a result of the initiatives that we commenced last night, and that should be very apparent as time goes by, even to Members of the New Democratic Party.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance has been around for a while. He was in business before. He has been in the House. He knows the use and the misuse of economic models, as do I, but I want a factual answer from him, not guff. I say put aside the question of business confidence. He may be right about that, he may be wrong.
I am asking a very specific question. Did his officials run the data and the effects of them through their econometric model, that he produced in his program last night? Will the Minister give a straight answer to that? Did they or did they not? I find it extraordinary that they would not have done so. If they did, will he confirm that they show negative results in terms of unemployment and, I repeat, will he give us the data? Then we will see what happens after the so-called business confidence effect comes into being.


Yes, Mr. Speaker, the data were run through.


Oh, oh!


Where are the numbers?


What was the result?


I say to the Leader of the New Democratic Party, and I say to all Canadians, that what we are doing here, in the statement last night and the agenda paper that was attached, is setting a clear, different road for Canadians to follow in economic policy. That different road is to say that we are going to have less reliance on government, more reliance on the private sector, and also rely less on the Government to solve all our problems.


Where is the data?


I want to say to the Leader of the New Democratic Party-if he could just move his mind
away for a minute from the fact that Governments are going to solve all our problems-


Away from the 1930s.


-that they are not going to solve all our problems.


Hear, hear!


And if the Hon. Member would have some confidence in Canadians, the ordinary Canadians for whom he says he speaks-


Bay Street, yes. Go ahead.


-if he would have some confidence in those ordinary Canadians, he would have some confidence that there will be a far better economic future for them as the results of this program take place.


Where is the data? Give us the data.


Mr. Speaker, we have just had revealed in answers to the last series of questions incredible statements by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister that they issued one of the most savage series of cuts on the Canadian people without knowing what the job impact would be across the nation. That is an incredible dereliction of responsibility. As responsible parliamentarians we have to ask them whether they are prepared to table in this House, for the sake of all Canadians in all parts of Canada who will be savaged by the budget, what the impacts will be of this statement? Will there be 60,000 jobs lost? Will there be 100,000 jobs lost, or 200,000 jobs lost? The only way this Parliament, which the Hon. Members here say they revere, can properly debate and examine that economic statement is if the Minister is prepared to fess up the facts. Will he do that and table them today?


Mr. Speaker, let me draw something to the attention of the Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry. The savage cuts which the Hon. Member talked about represent about 4 per cent of the total spending of the Government of Canada. Surely those are not savage cuts. They are not Draconian. They are a reasonable start to getting control of the deficit, which is one of the major obstacles to economic activity and a major obstacle to economic growth and job creation. That is why the two are very clearly linked.
I say to him, as I said to the person across the row from him, that if he would have confidence in Canadians to get out from under this load of government, and have the flexibility to do the things that they can do and should be able to do, then the job creation that is going to flow from the statement that I made last night will even make his head spin.
November 9, 1984


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance says that these are not Draconian measures. I would ask him, therefore, how he would describe a cut of S200 million in a program that provides for major opportunities in expansion and modernization for small business in the Atlantic provinces, in northern parts of Quebec and Ontario, and in western Canada. It may not be Draconian where he comes from, but in our regions it is very Draconian. Will he not admit that the cancellation of a major high-technology research centre in my own city, without consultation with business and labour, and which was designed to bring in small business and the high-technology industry, is a Draconian measure? It was to help a region of the country that has been treated as a hewer of wood, and that Party wants it to stay that way obviously. Is that not Draconian? Is he prepared to come to Winnipeg next week and show us how he is going to replace the loss of all those jobs and, in particular, the loss of those job opportunities?


Mr. Speaker, I will be in Winnipeg in about three weeks' time, so I will be happy to do that.


We will set up a meeting for you.


Thank you very much. The Hon. Member mentioned two programs. One was the regional industrial expansion program. I am sure my colleague, the Minister, will be happy to discuss this. Let me just point out to the Hon. Member that that program is going to be scaled back and it will affect mainly the tier one category, not tier three and tier four, and very very marginally tier two. It will have a much less impact on those areas of the country which need this help the most.
Let me now comment on the research centre in Winnipeg, something that I know is very dear to the Member's heart because he spent a lot of time on it, related not in any small way to his election campaign. Let me say that the Canadian Manufacturers' Association and the National Research Council were both in favour of that. That is why it was cancelled.


Order. I am forced to do this. I had to call a member of the Opposition to order a while ago for his length, and I must call the Minister of Finance to order for his length.


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary to my earlier questions. It is directed to the Prime Minister. It has just been acknowledged by the Minister of Finance that his Department has run the effects of the Government's program through a computer, through its model, to get the results. The Prime Minister has preached jobs, jobs, jobs. When he was on this side of the House he castigated the Liberals for keeping back information. The Prime Minister said he wanted more open government. My question is pretty straightforward. We want to see the recovery
Oral Questions
the Minister is talking about. We also want to see the statistical hard data on what the implications are of the Government's program. Will the Prime Minister now live up to what he promised in the campaign with more open government? Will he give the House of Commons and, more important, the people of Canada, the results of the forecasts made by the Department of Finance, based on his statement last night?


Mr. Speaker, any program of governmental action clearly depends on the response that it provokes in society. It depends on the investment decisions that will be made nationally and internationally. That is the way jobs are created, based on those criteria. The reaction of overwhelming approval from those who invest money to create jobs is a very important consideration of confidence building. As the Minister has quite properly pointed out, that is the kind of information that cannot be factored into any analysis. We are satisfied, based on preliminary reactions from the business community, here and elsewhere, that the steps that have been taken are positive and will be most helpful to those who need the jobs. The statement yesterday was based principally on job creation. That is what this Government is all about, jobs and prosperity.


This is an unusual procedure. I recognize the Hon. Member for Oshawa on a supplementary in his Party's time.


Mr. Speaker, I have a final supplementary. The Prime Minister knows that what he is indulging in now is a cover-up completely of the same kind we used to get from a man named Trudeau, exactly the same. It is hypocrisy. On this side of the House he preached open government. On that side of the House he is trying to cover up an unpleasant statistic. He knows the data that he has will show his program will lose between 50,000 and 100,000 jobs. Rather than admit it, he is trying to keep the truth from the people of this country. I ask a final time whether he will produce the information which his Department of Finance has and let all Canadians, business people, farmers, and the unemployed, pass their judgment on it.


Mr. Speaker, I think that the question has been thoroughly and honestly answered by the Minister of Finance and by myself.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. It was reported in the Calgary Herald that ten elephant-hide chesterfields were purchased by Petro-Canada for its executive offices. The cost quoted was from $8,000 to $15,000 each, a

November 9, 1984
Oral Questions
total expenditure in excess of $80,000. What a shameful waste of taxpayers' money, not to mention the loss of animals of an endangered species. If we are going to use the hides of an endangered species, we should use thick Liberal hides. Can the Minister confirm this newspaper report? Is the person responsible for this extravagance still in the employ-


The question is clear and has been asked. I think that is a decent length for a question.


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member was kind enough to give me notice. I was able to speak to Petro-Canada officials and I established that they are not in fact elephant-hide chairs. There are two sofas and two chairs made of Canadian cow hide, manufactured in Toronto.


Hon. Warren Allmand (Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine
East): Mr. Speaker, during the past week we have heard an awful lot about consultations. This Government was going to consult with everybody about everything. Last night we had the most massive change in Canadian Government in many years, without any consultation whatsoever. My question is directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration. In her Department alone there were cuts amounting to $432 million, mostly on the employment side. Can the Minister responsible for employment give us the exact figures on how many jobs will be lost, not only as a result of the cuts in her Department but as a result of all of the cuts? I know the Minister believes in open government. Let us have those figures.
Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member and members of Opposition Parties would like to ignore the fact that last night the Government announced a $1 billion fund for job creation and for human resource development.


Hear, hear!


I would like to tell the Hon. Member that I will be using the time to work out with my provincial counterparts, and with the private sector, the way in which we together can put those jobs and that training into effect. I know that it will take a joint effort to do that. However, I would ask the Hon. Member and all Canadians to take that very positive point of view into consideration.


Hon. Warren Allmand (Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine
East): Mr. Speaker, what a shell game. The Minister has
talked about consulting with the private sector and the provinces on her new program. Why did she not consult with the private sector and with the many people who would be affected by those cuts beforehand, to see how the $432 million that was cut from her Department would have affected them? With respect to the $ 1 billion, I say that that is a shell game because the First Chance Program, which she cut after coming into office, provided for $1 billion for the next five years. She cut that program out and then brought in a $27 million program, not even near the amount that was there in the first place.
She completely cut out of the budget the general industrial training program and the Summer Canada program. Last night, the Government said it does not believe in direct-
Order.


Question!


Order. Does the Hon. Member have a supplementary question?


Mr. Speaker, if the Government does not believe in direct job creation, would the Minister tell us exactly how the Government will create the jobs and provide the training that was lost through the cutting out of those two important programs?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure that all Hon. Members are aware that we have just recently announced a $430 million direct job-creation program which has been detailed to all Members of the House.
It is true, Mr. Speaker, that we have said that we will work very closely with the private sector in order to create new jobs. I cannot think of any way that this was better phrased than it was the other day, when it was stated:
We believe that the role of Government is to support and encourage private initiative and to provide the framework in which it can grow and create the thousands of jobs that we need.
That, Mr. Speaker, was said by the Leader of the Opposition. I thank him for endorsing our approach.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance who has explained carefully, and on many occasions, that confidence cannot be measured in dollars and cents. There is something that can be measured in dollars and cents, and that is what will happen to all Canadians over the next couple of months and years while they pay a 12 per cent increase per gallon of gasoline, while they pay increased unemployment insurance premiums, while the regressive sales tax comes back into play, while they pay an increase in air travel tax, and while they pay
November 9, 1984

for the imposition of a whole host of user fees. The Government campaigned during the election saying it was going to get off the backs of the people of Canada. Through this set of measures, it has not only leaped back upon the backs of Canadians but it now has its hands in their pocketbooks as well.
Will the Minister of Finance explain why this priority has been changed? Will he explain why, rather than giving some breaks in order to provide purchasing power to the people of Canada, the Government has increased taxes for every single Canadian citizen?


Mr. Speaker, the increases in both the petroleum compensation charge and the unemployment insurance premiums are charges that we are required to deal with under the terms of the rules set out for those particular programs. However, I would ask the Hon. Member to give consideration to, and read carefully, what was said last night.
The over-all reduction in the deficit is a prime obstacle to job creation. We must get that deficit down. If we are able to get that deficit down, it will more than offset the impact of the items to which he has referred. We do not like having to raise the petroleum compensation charge or the unemployment insurance premiums, but we do believe that if we get the deficit down it will create many, many more jobs than those to which the Hon. Member now refers.


Mr. Speaker, the spectre of Bill Bennett rises throughout the Commons today.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Right Hon. Prime Minister. During the Leaders' debate the Prime Minister promised the people of Canada that he would bring some degree of fairness to the system by imposing a minimum tax on those Canadians who, as a result of countless loopholes, were able to pay not a single cent in income tax year after year. That promise of fairness is now being put under study, is being reviewed and will be examined, meditated, and contemplated upon.
Will the Prime Minister explain to the House why he has changed his mind about this promise, which was very strong during the Leaders' debate, and why he will now study it further, rather than take steps to implement it as soon as possible in order to raise the up to $400 million that would assist Canadians?


Mr. Speaker, I can give assurance to my hon. friend that that important matter which deals with the issue of equity and fairness in the
Oral Questions
tax system, something in which I think we all believe, will be dealt with by the Minister of Finance in his first Budget.


Mr. Speaker, my first question this morning, which was addressed to the right hon. gentleman, sought to seek the figures for the projected additional unemployment which will result from last night's mini budget presented by the Minister of Finance. I did not receive a satisfactory answer. If the figures do not exist, it would be absolutely irresponsible to bring that type of mini budget down without knowing the effects it would have on the people of Canada and on the weaker regions of the country. If, as the Prime Minister has suggested, as he did in his answer to the Hon. Member for Oshawa, that the data were run off, and if the Prime Minister believes in open government, he should tell the people of Canada and this Parliament the consequences of what happened here last night.


Mr. Speaker, I think my right hon. friend is really raising a different issue and one that goes to the question of secrecy in government. I agree with his comments. If he were to be consistent, he would want to begin the process by releasing the secret letter that he signed in regard to some nominations made when he became Prime Minister.


Oh, oh!


I can simply tell my right hon. friend that all of the working documents have been dealt with from time to time in the course of the preparation of budgets. We are satisfied, as I know he would be, that the response of the private sector and of the international and national investment sector is very critical to the ultimate results of any new economic initiatives. We believe, and I am satisfied that most Canadians believe, that this will result in the kind of job creation that we need.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. In view of his commitment to greater certainty and to private investment, confidence, and a stable investment climate, why, two weeks ago, did he discontinue the practice of the Department of National Revenue whereby it would give advance rulings when corporate mergers were to take place and where advance rulings have been given in the past? Wh