Mr. Speaker, this being close to the end of December let us review the year 1985.
January: two Tories are reported to have received a $60,000 untendered advertising contract. February: the Solicitor General meets privately in a room at the Chateau Laurier with Premier Hatfield. March: the Irish eyes were smiling at the Shamrock Summit, while the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) was giving away the store to the Americans. April: everything became relative; the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson), the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Clark), and the Minister of Justice (Mr. Crosbie) awarded cushy contracts and appointments to all their relatives. May: the Minister of Finance introduced his Budget which viciously attacked the poor and the senior citizens of the country. June: senior citizens are really mad at the Government and the Government reinstates pensions. July: the Minister of the Environment had a wonderful time in Paris at a mere cost of $64,000 to Canadian taxpayers. August: the Secretary of State (Mr. McLean) took an African safari. September: the tainted tuna scandal. We now know why the Prime Minister lost his sense of smell. October: the first bank fiasco in 62 years. November: the Tory Government gave away de Havilland to Boeing. December: the Government bullies Parliament by introducing closure seven times in 21 days.
That is "the way it was" in the great year of 1985. Merry Christmas anyway.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister's refusal to meet today with members of la Coalition des femmes pour les allocations familiales, which represents thousands of Quebec women, is a further indication of his insensitivity to the concerns of women and the needs of children.
Undoubtedly he cannot face them because he has no just explanation to give for proceeding with Bill C-70 to reduce the purchasing power of family allowances. Instead, he intends to push through this incredible legislation which attacks families and children, especially women raising children on their own and on low incomes. Once again the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) cannot defend his broken promises. Bill C-70 denies his promises never to hurt universal social programs, to help those in greatest need, to act on women's concerns, and to reconsider cuts when the economy improved.
The Prime Minister could save face, re-establish his credibility, and make all Canadians have a happy Christmas by allowing Bill C-70 to die and by sending out fully indexed family allowance cheques in January.


Mr. Speaker, this is a time to look back over the year-


Oh, oh!


-and take stock of what we have accomplished in 1985.
One accomplishment stands out as something of which all Canadians ought to be proud. The people of Canada, and our Government, have proved that by working together we can accomplish great things.
At home, the economic signs are excellent. The inflation rate has not risen above 4 per cent since we took office. Consumer and business investment is up. Housing starts are on the rise. Interest rates and unemployment are down. The number of new jobs in Canada continues to increase. We could not have accomplished so much without the enthusiastic participation of every Canadian, particularly small business people.
Over the past year Canadians have proven that they also have great concern for those in need around the world. The generous donations of both time and money by all Canadians to the Government's African Famine Relief Program have been tremendous. I am especially proud that Saskatchewan had the highest rate of contributions per capita to overseas assistance this year, a year when the residents of my province were afflicted with severe drought and difficulty in harvesting their crops. This accomplishment is not surprising since Saskatchewan has the highest rate of volunteers in the country.

December 20, 1985
Government alone cannot bring about economic recovery. Government alone cannot feed the starving. But working together Canadians and our Government can make this country and the world a better place in which to live.


Under the Liberal administration, Mr. Speaker, not only were investors not interested, but they even shut down several refineries in Montreal East. Today, we have three national companies which are seriously considering getting financially involved in Montreal East, namely Shell Canada, Gaz metropolitain and Ultramar.
Our open and welcoming approach has proved to be the driving force which has renewed the confidence of investors and prompted the management of those companies to invest in Montreal East.
For several days now the Liberals have been trying to use those investment projects in an insidious attempt to spread dissension among Quebecers.
Mr. Speaker, our Government has achieved a national consensus. In the same way, Mr. Speaker, we intend to protect, maintain and strengthen the solidarity of Quebecers no matter where they live.
Aware of its responsibilities towards every region of Canada and Quebec, aware of the wider credibility it is gaining every day from private investors, aware of the challenges it has created for investors from all quarters, our Government will soon announce a strategy designed to inspire even more confidence on the part of investors, consumers and workers in Montreal and Quebec.


Mr. Speaker, I want to draw the attention of the House to the case of Mrs. Gwen Wills of Ottawa who has been unable to collect alimony payments for three years.
Mrs. Wills obtained an Ontario Supreme Court ruling ordering her husband to provide for some of the needs of their two children.
But her former husband left Ontario and now resides in Nova Scotia where he has launched a series of appeals against the ruling in a successful attempt to put off those payments.
Indeed Mrs. Wills' former husband does not have to pay alimony for as long as the case is before the court.
This case proves the urgency of establishing a Canada-wide alimony payments collection system. Unfortunately Bill C-48 does not provide for such a system which would help thousands of women in dire straits such as Mrs. Wills, because of legal proceedings.
In the meantime we are forced to realize that the rights of women and children are severely breached. One child out of five lives in poverty, and most of the victims of poverty in Canada happen to be women.
Bill C-48 will do nothing to keep track of defaulting husbands and will not be of any use to 80 per cent of women waiting in vain for their alimony payments.
Mr. Speaker, Mrs. Wills is legally unable to defend herself, and 1 think that her predicament is absolutely absurd.
Therefore I urge the Government to amend Bill C-48 so that women in Canada will be able to receive their alimony payments.


Mr. Speaker, the House has been following with interest the Government's attempt to set up a national tobacco marketing board. It was one of the first items of farm business to go through the House. Legislators here have been watching its progress with interest. One year after we passed the Bill there is still no board in place.
Farmers were agitating outside the House. The Minister took the two sides, locked them up under the old system, a provincial board, and announced to the delight of the House that there was an agreement. We now find that the agreement seems to have fallen apart when the two parties got together to sign it. The manufacturers have refused to sign and have decided to take some time off for the Christmas holidays.
The Government now has very few options. It can take the proposal from the National Products Marketing Council and sign it into law, which would permit the various provincial producer groups to take that agreement and begin negotiations from there. Instead, the Government seems to have chosen the route of going through the courts causing the resultant delay. Another point the Government should be very much aware of is that in the intervening time between now and when the agreement finally can be reached, there should be temporary border controls placed on importation of tobacco and tobacco products. It is unfair for the manufacturers-
December 20, 1985


I am sorry to interrupt the Hon. Member but his time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, the latest survey of financial and economic forecasters of the Conference Board of Canada reveals that business investment spending is expected to continue its strong 1985 performance into 1986. According to the findings of this independent survey, growth of 6.6 per cent in general investment spending is expected in 1986. This represents an increase over the already high level of growth we experienced in 1985.
In addition, several trends are evident in the responses to the survey in the past few quarters. To start off, the average growth forecast for the GNE in 1985 has been steadily rising over the last four surveys and now averages 4 per cent. Second, the average growth rate projection for the GNE in 1986 has been increasing and now rests at 2.9 per cent, compared with 2.6 per cent in the fall survey. Finally, the over-all economic picture is improving steadily in the eyes of the forecasters.
All of these positive indicators are music to the ears of Canadians. Unfortunately, some people do not want to hear good news and I am referring to Hon. Members of the Opposition whose shortsightedness almost destroyed our economy. It is time that the Opposition starts giving credit where credit is due instead of constantly engaging in mud-slinging and backbiting.


Mr. Speaker, it gives me a great deal of pleasure to rise today to congratulate both the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) and the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Epp) on the recently announced improvements to the Canada Pension Plan.
In exchange for slightly higher contributions, more Canadians than ever will be eligible for CPP benefits at an earlier age, and with less restrictions. I am especially pleased that survivor benefits will no longer be terminated if a widow or widower remarries. I am told that approximately 35,000 Canadians will have benefits reinstated as a result of this change. The disabled will have the base rate of their pensions increased by $136 per month, and I understand that 140,000 Canadians will benefit.
These two changes alone will result in 175,000 Canadians receiving more generous benefits, to say nothing of the many Canadians who will be eligible for CPP benefits five years earlier, at age 60, rather than at age 65, with appropriate actuarial adjustments.
Oral Questions	,
As a supporter of this Government I am very proud that, after little more than a year in office, the federal Government, with unanimous provincial support, has introduced the most generous and comprehensive amendments to the Canada Pension Plan since that Plan was enacted some 20 years ago.


Mr. Speaker, some people are very busy and get a lot done. Some others use the excuse that they are too busy so they do not have to do certain things. The Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources (Miss Carney) falls into the latter category.
A delegation of business people, labour and professional researchers from the Deep River area have been trying to have a meeting with the Minister ever since the disastrous cuts within AECL were announced by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) in his Budget of May 23.
The Government cut the R and D budget of AECL by $100 million and robbed the company of another $70 million of retained earnings. The former Minister of Science and Technology stated in this House two days ago that money was not being taken out. He cannot even read the Government's own Budget Papers because it is right there in very plain language.
The Minister of Energy keeps saying that she does not have time to meet with the delegation from the Deep River-Chalk River area. I am amazed that she even had the time to approve the cuts. However, she obviously was around then. This is a case of hit and run or, even worse, a case of hit and then hide. I wrote a follow-up letter to the Minister on August 1 asking for a meeting with her on behalf of the business community, labour representatives and research scientists. To date my letter has not even been acknowledged. The Minister is still saying she does not have time to meet with people in the community.
This is a perfect example of how this so-called open Government works. Ministers do not have time for small business people, labour or scientific researchers in Canada. Because of the manner in which she is-


The Hon. Member's time has expired.


Perhaps you will allow me, Mr. Speaker, on behalf of myself

December 20, 1985
Oral Questions
and my colleagues, to offer to you and, through you, the staff of the House of Commons and our pages our warmest Christmas greetings and wishes for a happy holiday. 1 also want to congratulate you, Mr. Speaker, on the very spectacular lights on the Hill this year.


Hear, hear!


They may be the only light we have had in recent days.
[ Translation]
And I also wish to offer the Prime Minister personally, his family and the Members of his caucus and also the Hon. Member for Oshawa and his colleagues, our best wishes for the holiday season.

I also want to extend those greetings to the Fourth Estate, members of the Press Gallery.


No!


Not Duffy.


We also want to remember Canadians less fortunate than ourselves, those who are out of work and having a tough time.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Now that the de Havilland documents are going to be presented to a parliamentary committee which will have an opportunity to review the deal, I hope the Government has drawn a lesson from this. Will the Prime Minister give an undertaking to the House that in any future sale of a Crown corporation the full documentation and details of that sale will be referred to a parliamentary committee before the sale is closed?


I want to thank the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition for his generous comments to all Members of the House, Mr. Speaker. May I take this opportunity on behalf of my Party and the Government to extend to him and all of his colleagues, as well as the Hon. Member for Oshawa and his colleagues, and to you, Mr. Speaker-but I will not go much beyond that-as well as to all members of the Gallery and our staff, our very best wishes as well for happy holidays.


Hear, hear!


In any future transactions we will be respectful of the traditions and customs of the House and we will be searching for ways to provide as much information as possible to Members of the Opposition and public.


Mr. Speaker, when a Crown corporation is put up for sale, we must remember these companies belong to Canadian taxpayers, who are the real shareholders.
In the circumstances, could the Prime Minister, in future, provide more specific rules for prior consideration of these transactions, including information on the future of the jobs involved, the future of Canadian technology and research, and especially on whether control will remain in Canadian hands?


Mr. Speaker, I don't think I have ever denied the fact that we have an obligation to provide the Opposition and the Canadian people with all the facts of the case, while bearing in mind that we are also talking about a commercial transaction that has a number of confidential aspects, which is only normal.
There are elements that may become problematic if they are revealed before the sale is closed. I think we all know that. However, this does not relieve us from our responsibility to be open in all circumstances, where the sale of Crown assets is concerned. We were in this particular case, and we hope to be even more so in subsequent cases to be considered by the House. In any event, the Leader of the Official Opposition can count on our co-operation at all times with respect to matter that are so vitally important to us.


Mr. Speaker, I have one final question. In view of the widespread opposition in the country, particularly that of our religious leaders, would the Prime Minister withdraw Bill C-70 relating to the deindexation of family allowances?


Hear, hear!


I'll agree to that.


Agreed.


Order, please.


I have great respect, Mr. Speaker, not only for the religious leaders to whom my right hon. friend refers, but for other leaders in the country, many of whom have expressed deep gratification with the course that the Government is following to restore sanity.


Oh, oh!
December 20, 1985


Come on.


As a result of that, the course upon which we have embarked will be followed because we believe that, as the OECD reported yesterday, the Government of Canada is doing better than any other of the OECD countries with few exceptions.


Oh, oh!


I know my right hon. friend would wish us well in the pursuit of jobs and justice for Canadians.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Right Hon. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, it is the holiday season and therefore a time when we should express our generosity, not just in words but also by our actions. Everyone in Canada will be exchanging gifts at Christmas and New Year's. We have here representatives from all the groups that are asking you ... 1 am not just speaking for the Opposition but for all these people, religious leaders, family agencies and women, who are all asking whether you would have the generosity to announce immediately the withdrawal of Bill C-70, for the sake of all the children across this country.


Mr. Speaker, as has been said many times in the House, there is an increase in the child tax credit which makes up for any changes in the family allowance.


Scrooge.


As Members know, there will also be an increase in the family allowance as of January 1 rather than the decrease which they have been speaking of in the country.


That's inaccurate.


You know that's not true.


Additionally, Bill C-70 follows the principle of directing the money in social policies to those in greatest need. That principle remains.
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is also directed to the Right Hon. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, why has your office
Oral Questions
refused to let you meet all our religious leaders and the family agencies who have a very important matter to discuss with you? Would the Prime Minister be prepared to meet them outside the House?


Mr. Speaker, the Government has been meeting with various groups, not only in relation to Bill C-70. The Minister of Finance and I have recently been meeting with social reform groups and considering further issues. Those meetings will continue. The Member should keep in mind that Ministers of the Government have been meeting with these groups and will continue to do so. If he looks at the record he will find that that is the case.


I want to begin my questioning by joining the Prime Minister and the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition in wishing, on behalf of my colleagues, all Members opposite a joyful personal year in the months ahead.


What about us?


And with respect to the Party to my right, figuratively speaking, I say without qualification that 1 wish it and all its members and their families, in their personal lives, an enjoyable new year.


Hear, hear!


I even extend that, without qualification, with total generosity as the Prime Minister might say, to all the men and women up there in that Gallery.


Expect Mike Duffy.


Oh, oh!


Now, to get back to Scrooge-
[ Translation]

I have a question about the Government's decision to reduce family allowances. Here in Ottawa, we have a coalition representing a large number of Canadians from all regions, and it wants to meet today with the Prime Minister. My question is directed to the Prime Minister: Will he accept this invitation? Would he be prepared to discuss with Canadians the Government's decision to reduce family allowances?


Mr. Speaker, that discussion has been taking place. It has taken place on the Budget, on the Bill, in the Legislative Committee, and again when the Bill came back. It has been taking place with members of the Government and members of

December 20, 1985
Oral Questions
the Opposition meeting with the public. That discussion has taken place.
I believe that the airing of the matter has been adequate. Furthermore, 1 remind the Leader of the New Democratic Party that when we look at benefits to families, he should also be reminded of the increase in the child tax credit, that there was a strong representation from social groups to change the tax expense for children on the basis that it gave greatest benefit to those with greatest income, and that there was a change to the family allowance that he has addressed personally.
I think we must look at that entire package. I believe the debate has been adequate.


I say to the Minister that I am also aware of the fact that the Government has given a capital gains tax gift to the rich of Canada that will cost the treasury some $500 million a year, which is more than enough to continue family allowance payments the way they should be.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Prime Minister because the request for a meeting is with him, now the Minister of National Health and Welfare. That meeting is requested by representatives of the church, women's groups, representatives of the rich and poor and families throughout Canada. That request to meet with the Prime Minister was made some time ago. Will he meet with them sometime today in an act of generosity and Christmas spirit?


Mr. Speaker, I think it is probably fair to say that I have been very accessible to groups who wish to meet with me. I have done it on a regular basis at all times. I have never turned down a reasonable request at any time for a meeting that 1 could accommodate.


What about women?


I know that Ministers have-meeting with the women? I am the first Prime Minister to meet with representatives of women's groups in this country on a regular basis.


Hear, hear!


Oh, oh!


And with representatives of the poor, with religious groups and peace groups. I am the first Prime Minister of the country to go to speak to the peace groups.


You don't listen and you do not do anything when they ask.


Answer the question.


Order, please. I ask Hon. Members to please allow questions to be put and answered.


That is not an answer.


Order, please.


We were elected to deal with the important social problems. For example, the people here who believe today-I know it is not Christmas-like for them to do so-but the people in the galleries should remember that when we brought in our economic program the Members opposite were predicting a loss of 200,000 jobs, but 416,000 new jobs were created.


Hear, hear!


That is social justice for the country.


May I remind all Members on all sides that any reference to the presence of anybody in the gallery is entirely out of order.


Mr. Speaker, if the Prime Minister is right, as he is, that the economy is doing better than not only the Government's forecast and the Opposition's forecast-


Hear, hear!


Order, please. Questions and answers should be allowed to be put and answered without applause and comments.


It is a big "if".


I say to the Prime Minister with this improvement he should show some generosity by making sure the people get the money who need it, namely, the recipients of family allowances.
Since the Prime Minister has just suggested that he is willing to meet with a lot of groups, instead of meeting with groups at his convenience when he wants to persuade them to do something, will he meet with a group that wants to meet him to persuade him to change his mind?


Order, please. That is not a supplementary question. It is simply the same question put for the third time, with respect.


No.


With respect.


No.


Order, please. 1 am perfectly prepared to allow supplementary questions but-


It is a new rule.


It is a new rule.
December 20, 1985


No, it is not a new rule. The same question put over and over is contrary to our practice. Order, please. The Hon. Member for York Centre.


I note that the President of the Treasury Board is back, Mr. Speaker. I hope he heard the news-


Oh, oh!


-that there has been a very welcome flip-flop by his Party over the question of giving information on the de Havilland sale.
I note that the brokerage firm of Burns Fry has been used as the agent on four of five of the Government's privatizations. There are other good firms that are capable of doing that work. I understand as well that very large commissions will be paid. Will that aspect of this transaction and all the documents be reviewed by the committee looking into the de Havilland sale?


1
would like to thank my hon. colleague for his words of welcome. I was absent yesterday because I was meeting with the ambassadors from the European Economic Community at the behest of the Prime Minister.


Oh, oh!


What is the country going to get?


On the question of information, Mr. Speaker, I think we have made available on the whole transaction all the information that was potentially available to the Opposition from a commercial point of view.
I further made available this morning an addendum to the memorandum outlining many of the points that were made in this House over the last few weeks just so Members opposite can focus their minds more clearly on the specific details that have obviously been concerning them. We will continue in that same spirit of providing all the details.
We are still committed, I would like to emphasize, to the sale of de Havilland to Boeing. We will throughout this process make available, as I indicated in my covering note this morning, all available information. Please phone or call, and we will give you the information that you request.


Hear, hear!
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I consider the Burns Fry information to be very relevant and important. We want to be certain that all these privatizations are not being used as a way of awarding very lucrative business to the friends of the Government.
Again, if I phoned and asked for that information, as the Minister has invited me to do, will I get it?


The answer is yes, Mr. Speaker.
In terms of the privatization exercise, we have employed a great number of firms. I would be happy to make the list available to the Hon. Member. There is no problem there whatsoever.
The reason we are employing a considerable number of outside advisers is to make sure that we are protecting the Canadian taxpayer in every way possible in the sale and divestiture of Crown assets by ensuring that we have the best possible advice. The list is much longer than just one firm. For that reason, I would like to take it under-


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Since he and the Minister of Finance promised to reconsider budget cuts to social programs when the economy improved, and since the P.M. feels the economy has improved, will he agree to take steps now to index family allowances fully for January? It will cost only $75 million.


Mr. Speaker, we are gratified by the manner in which the economy is responding to the leadership shown by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance.


Hear, hear!


We are also pleased the Hon. Member's Leader has recognized that fact. What we are saying to her-as we have said in the Budget and as we have said subsequently-is that the Government is looking at further social policy initiatives on an ongoing basis. Obviously we want to get the finances of Canada and the deficit under control. Let me say to the Hon. Member that the best guarantee she and Canadians can have for better social programs is for us to have an economy that can afford those social programs. That is our job. That is the relationship between social and economic policy, and we will continue on that path.

December 20, 1985
Oral Questions


There is absolutely no justification for taking money from children, Mr. Speaker, when there is money coming in through the economy.


I want to ask a question of the Finance Minister this time since the Prime Minister will not answer. He has recently introduced a minimum tax, or is in the process of doing so. We agree with that: we will have $300 million extra in the kitty.


Is there a question please?


Will the Finance Minister use the $300 million as extra income to reindex the family allowance in 1986?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member continues to isolate the family allowance. If she is going to be honest with herself and her constituents, she will be looking at this as a total package. The child tax credit has been increasing significantly, much higher than the reduction in the growth rate of the family allowance. As well, something she herself has been calling for-


It is still deindexed. Answer the question.


-is a reduction in the child tax exemption.
I would like to be able to say to the Hon. Member that as the economy performs, as we are able to generate the economic activity, that is starting to occur in a very favourable way and the OECD report has been, I think, quite pointed in the way it has referred to the economy this year, by saying that it has no policy recommendations for the Government of Canada. Because things are going so well the OECD has nothing more to add to the policy directions that we have already taken.


Mr. Speaker, a few moments ago the Prime Minister had the nerve to inform the House he was available, when we know that the Mayor of Port Cartier has been trying to reach him for a month and a half, but without success.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister told the people of Port Cartier that with him as their elected representative, the employment problem at the ITT plant would be dealt with.
For months, Cascades Inc. has been setting up a project, and the only other partner they need to carry out the project is the federal Government.
I want to ask the Prime Minister: Why does he insist on undermining the credibility of the promoter and on ignoring urgent calls for help from the Mayor of Port Cartier and people who are seeking jobs?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member's statement is erroneous in the extreme.
On the North Shore, we did indeed inherit a disastrous situation, thanks to the policies of the Liberal Government and the federal Government in Port Cartier, where the impact was very serious indeed. The federal Government has agreed to invest $60 million at Port Cartier which will create 450 new jobs on a permanent basis, something the people appreciate as a very important step.
Furthermore, regarding the ITT matter and others as well, I had an opportunity to discuss this last Friday with Premier Bourassa, who is very interested in this particular case. If there is a solution, it will take joint action on this issue and on others as well. In fact, we will probably have an announcement to make in the near future.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary. The Prime Minister may have discussed this with the Premier of Quebec, but the Quebec Premier's offer is on the table. I just spoke to Mr. Bernard Lemaire, President of Cascades, who told me that if by January 1 the federal Government had not made its offer of $12 million as stipulated, there would be no more promoter-


The question, please!


Is the Prime Minister going to deliver the goods by January 1? Otherwise, he can kiss the project goodbye.


That is interesting. Now if the promoter feels that the way to proceed is through the Liberal Opposition, that is his concern. But as far as we are concerned, we are handling this jointly with the Government of Quebec.


Shades of Duplessis!


There is a joint dossier involving both the Quebec Government and the federal Government.
Mr. Bourrassa was sworn in last Thursday. We met that Friday, the very next day.


A federal decision!
December 20, 1985


A decision-


Order! Order, please.


-was made, Mr. Speaker, to assign Messrs. Roch Bolduc and Paul Tellier, our respective Clerks, to work on these issues. We are expecting to receive a joint recommendation, from Messrs. Tellier and Bolduc in the near future, on a series of projects, including Port Cartier. And 1 think I can inform my hon. friend that Port Cartier and the North Shore will fare much better in this instance than they did under the Liberal Government.


Mr. Speaker, my questions are directed to the Minister of Transport. They arise from the events of the last few weeks and the statements which he has made. The Minister has said that he will not allow any deregulation or legislative changes which would denigrate safety, maintenance, and inspection. How does he know how to do that without having conducted a thorough, in-depth study, including the Transport Committee, to define properly, in strong and clear terms, what "fit, willing and able" mean, and what the whole matter of freedom of entry and exit means in the areas of safety, maintenance, and inspection? Is it his intention to do that before he brings in legislation, and when will he be bringing in that legislation?


Mr. Speaker, I think the Hon. Member should know that the position paper presented in July reflected the Government's desire to move toward regulatory reform. We identified a number of areas of concern, which we asked the Standing Committee on Transport to look at and give us recommendations. I have received those recommendations. Certainly they will be taken into consideration during the drafting process. Anything in that report which will enhance safety or economic regulatory reform and produce the best transportation framework for Canada, to meet its unique circumstances, will certainly be taken into account.


Mr. Speaker, in his last report the Auditor General indicated that none of the Transport Canada regional offices could inspect all airlines in their jurisdiction even once a year, and the Minister has said that he has beefed up safety measures-


Order, please.


Will he say-


Thank you.
Oral Questions


Wait for it.


Oh, oh!


Order, please. With respect, a question, please.


Will he say exactly, in some detail, what that beefing up consists of? All I have seen is a campaign poster which reads: "Think security in airports in Canada". What has he done to beef up inspection procedures and the number of inspectors required to do a decent job?


Mr. Speaker, with regard to the system-wide operation, there are some 614 inspectors. With regard to the passenger safety side, there has been a 20 per cent increase in the number of people between 1984-85 and 1985-86. That is a clear indication that safety is of paramount importance. Surely the Hon. Member knows that we just passed the Aeronautics Bill, which amounts to the most progressive aviation legislation in the world. Surely he also knows that in many areas of transportation safety the mechanisms are beefed up. There are more mechanisms to enforce the necessary rules and regulations. I hope the Hon. Member will continue to work with us in improving the environment of safety to which I am committed and to which I am sure he is committed.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister for International Trade. He will know that manufacturers in my riding and throughout Canada have had trouble in recent months getting after sales service people into the United States. This is still a problem. Could the Minister tell us whether something will finally be done about it?


Mr. Speaker, I am happy to advise the Hon. Member that yesterday the United States Court of Appeal set aside the ruling of the lower court until such time as the appeal is heard. Our workers and servicemen will now be able to continue to enter the States to service those contracts without any problems. Also I am happy to advise him that I discussed the problem with Mr. Yeutter during my talks this past Wednesday, with a view to seeking a permanent solution to the problem.
Oral Questions LOBBYING


December 20, 1985
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. On September 9 the Prime Minister promised the following in a document which he sent to my office:
I have accordingly asked my colleague, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, to prepare, on an urgent basis, legislation to govern lobbying activity.
Could the Prime Minister tell the House what forced him to break yet another promise to the Canadian people?
[ Translation]


In answer to that question, Mr. Speaker, I would suggest that we have quite simply decided to give the matter more consideration, and we hope that Canadians generally will indeed express their views. It would certainly be more constructive if the Hon. Member were to voice his representations before the parliamentary committee instead of indulging in cheap criticisms.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. In an interview yesterday the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs admitted that lobbyists had brought pressure to bear on him with respect to this matter. Can he tell us today who were those lobbyists who used such pressure tactics? Can he name them and, more particularly, can he tell us why he listened to them, contrary to the advice of his leader?


Mr. Speaker, we believe that the impact of regulations on lobbyists and lobbying deserves more consideration and public airing, which is why we made that decision.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister; I hope he will answer it. In the spirit of Christmas, and as a gift to the kids of the country, will he now withdraw Bill C-70, a Bill to deindex family allowances?


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, the best gift that any Government can try to give to the
kids of the country is jobs and a sound economy, and that is what we are doing.


Hear, hear!


We are going to take that mountain of debt off the backs of the children of the country, which was being placed there by you and your Liberal friends.


Hear, hear!


We are finally going to give the kids of the country an equal chance for some growth and prosperity and new jobs.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, we have heard enough rhetoric.


Oh, oh!


Sit down!


1 would like an answer to the question. Will he or will he not withdraw Bill C-70? Why chisel on the children of the country? Will he or will he not withdraw that Bill? 1 want an answer.


Order, please. I will allow the answer in this case. May I remind the Hon. Member that there are several Hon. Members of his own Party who are rising to ask questions. I will therefore allow this to be the last time that simple question is asked.


Mr. Speaker, as you indicated, it is the same question, and the same answer applies.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister responsible for Canada Post. I know it is the time of year for the giving and receiving of gifts, but a 13-year-old boy from my riding recently received an unsolicited catalogue from a film distribution company based in Canada. The material, or trash, contained in the brochure was, in my opinion, of an explicit, pornographic nature and entirely unsuitable for a minor, particularly one as young as 13 years old. Can the Minister tell the House how this type of material can he sent through our postal system to a 13-year-old boy, and what steps the Government is taking to prevent this type of occurrence?
December 20, 1985


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my colleague for bringing this to my attention. 1 share his concern.
1 will bring this matter to the Security and Investigation Branch of Canada Post Corporation for its review and recommendations.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. I would like to know whether or not the Prime Minister gave his permission for the Christmas-in-Barbados junket undertaken at the taxpayers' expense by the Hon. Member for Dartmouth in order to open an office which has been open for the last six months?


Mr. Speaker, I saw the report in this morning's press, the one to which the Hon. Member is apparently referring. The matter will be the subject of inquiry to see whether or not the accuracy level of it is of the same standards as the accuracy level of several other similar stories that have come out in the last several months.


Mr. Speaker, Canadian government officials in Barbados confirmed today that the trip was organized at a time when the Member was probably going to be in the Barbados anyway at his own family hideaway. I would ask the Prime Minister, in light of the fact that he is asking the women and children of the country to pay through cut-backs in the increases in family allowances, how he can justify April in Paris, July and August on safari, and Christmas in the Barbados for his own Members of Parliament.


And Taiwan for Boudria.


Oh, oh!


I want to know if he is going to send a cheque for $ 15,000 back to the Government of Canada.


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, I would like an answer to my question. The women and children of this country want an answer.


Sit down.


Order, please.


This is the House of Commons and you're ripping off taxpayers. It's a taxpayers' rip-off.
Oral Questions


Order, please. It is indeed the House of
Commons.


Well, answer!


The Hon. Member for Nickel Belt.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Revenue. It refers to the closure by the Government of the heavy water plants on Cape Breton Island. As a result of those closures, 630 workers have lost their jobs and they will lose up to 60 per cent of their severance package to income tax. Will the Minister tell the House whether or not he will grant the tax remission to those workers that they have requested?


Mr. Speaker, I can appreciate the concerns of my colleague. As he knows, we met with some of the employees last October and I would like to point out to the Hon. Member and to the House that the severance package offered by AECL is an equitable one and that there is a measure of tax relief available to those employees either by using contributions to a Registered Retirement Savings Plan or a Registered Pension Plan. I can only assure the Hon. Member that we will consider studying the situation.
I would like to remind the Hon. Member and the House that the Government, led by the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion, is doing something far more practical. We are making extraordinary efforts to provide alternative jobs for the people of Cape Breton, which in the end is the most practical solution.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Finance. Obviously that is where the log jam lies. I would like to give the Minister a chance to be Santa Claus. In light of the fact that these workers face a very bleak future while at this time we are lucky enough to have jobs, will the Minister of Finance give the serious consideration that was given by the Prime Minister to the workers of Gagnon, to a tax remission for these 630 workers from an area in which the chances of getting a job are very, very bleak indeed? Can he at least do that for them?


Mr. Speaker, as I am sure the Hon. Member knows, I have had a number of discussions with the Hon. Member for Cape Breton High-lands-Canso on this particular matter and we are reviewing the question very carefully. I would ask the Hon. Member not to spread these negative doubts about the future of Cape Breton.
9670

December 20, 1985
Oral Questions
As my colleague has just said, we are making extraordinary efforts through the Cape Breton tax credit, the most generous tax credit available in any part of the country. It is starting to work.


Why don't you give them some help now?


It is. We are helping people now because people are gettings jobs as a result of that tax credit.


But they're not going to get those jobs for a long time. You give them some help. Give them some help now.


Louder.


Order, please.


Oh, oh!


Order, please.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State for External Affairs I will direct my question to the Minister for International Trade. As the Minister may be aware, Vancouver Island remains one of the last densely populated areas in Canada which does not enjoy the benefits of natural gas. Consequently, recent media reports that Canada may be providing substantial financial assistance toward a proposed natural gas pipeline in India have created some consternation among the citizens of Vancouver Island. Would the Minister clarify the Government's financial involvement in the India gas line project and the reasons behind that involvement?


Mr. Speaker, I am happy to advise the Hon. Member that India has called for bids on a pipeline project. A number of Canadian companies are interested in it and, to enable them to be in a position to bid on it, export financing must be made available. I am happy to announce that the Export Development Corporation is prepared to make export financing available for a company from Canada that would be successful in bidding on this project, and no aid or concessional financing from CIDA is involved in this matter.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Revenue. I
received a letter from a solicitor in Manitoba which alleges a very serious breach in the confidentiality of the tax system. According to this document, the Canadian tax authorities have given information to U.S. tax authorities relating to the exact earnings European investors holding assets in this country have received. I believe that this constitutes a serious breach of Section 241 of the Income Tax Act. Did the Minister authorize the transfer of this information to U.S. tax authorities? Does he know about it, and does he not also consider it to be a serious breach of our tax system?


Mr. Speaker, I agree with my colleague that it is a very serious matter if there are some irregularities involved. However, as the Hon. Member knows, pursuant to tax treaties between countries, the provision of information under certain circumstances in permissible. I will check to see whether or not there has been any breach in procedure, either on our part or on the part of American recipients of this information pursuant to the treaty. I will report back to the House.


Mr. Speaker, the Government has several times in the House used the concept of confidentiality as a means of protecting disclosure of information on such matters as the Gulf takeover. There now seems to be a free flow of information to U.S. tax authorities. Will the Minister provide us with the guidelines which are used and which set out what rules are now applied by his officials in supplying information to U.S. tax authorities on any resident or non-resident in Canada who pays taxes in this country?


Mr. Speaker, I will certainly consider this as a representation. However, I want to tell my colleague that I think he is exaggerating when he talks about a free flow of information. I do not believe that to be the case. I repeat to him that there are certain exceptions to Section 241 and to confidentiality requirements pursuant to tax treaties between countries. If there has been any breach of these types of safeguards, I will certainly provide him with the details.


I have the honour to inform the House that the petitions presented by Hon. Members on Thursday, December 19, 1985, meet the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.
However, 129 petitions out of 300 presented do not meet the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.


Shame, shame!


Order, please.
December 20, 1985


You guys are misleading the country!


Order, please. I would ask all Members and all Ministers to come to order.


Shame, shame!


Order, please. I would ask all Members and all Ministers, and all Ministers and all Members, to come to order, please.
The two petitions presented by filing with the Clerk of the House meet the requirements of the Standing Orders as to form.


I am in receipt of a notice of a question of privilege from the Hon. Member for Glengarry-Prescott-Rus-sell (Mr. Boudria).


Mr. Speaker, I submit to you it is indeed an attack on the privileges of every Member of this House when certain false accusations are made against an Hon. Member in the House by another Hon. Member, which has been done on repeated occasions by the Prime Minister of Canada (Mr. Mulroney).
The Prime Minister made reference to the trip which 1 took to Taiwan with Conservative Members from Mississauga North (Mr. Horner), Cumberland-Colchester (Mr. Coates), York North (Mr. Roman) and Vaudreuil (Mr. Cadieux), and others. The Prime Minister has insinuated falsely, I submit to you-


Sit down.


Order, please.


Listen to him, he has a question of privilege.


Before I hear any argument with regard to any matter, 1 must ask the Hon. Member to tell me precisely what his question of privilege is.


He is doing that!


The Hon. Member for Papineau (Mr. Ouellet) will please allow me to hear the Hon. Member's argument.
The Hon. Member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell knows that our practices are that rather than give me the argument he may wish to put to the House at this point, he must give me immediately his prima facie case of privilege.


That is what he is doing.


Mr. Speaker, I submit to you that there have been serious erroneous attacks by a Member of Parliament
Privilege-Mr. Boudria
against another Member of Parliament, which is my initial submission.


Would you please fix the House microphone.


1 submitted to you in the first sentence that an untrue attack made by a Member of Parliament against another Member in this House is an abuse of our parliamentary privileges.


A lie!


1 was going on to describe very briefly what, indeed, that attack had been by the Hon. Member for Manicouagan, the Right Hon. Prime Minister.


I take it the Hon. Member is making an allegation that-


No!


Order, please. I take it the Hon. Member is arguing that a mistatement of fact on one side or the other is the substance of his-


No!


Order, please. Is that the basis