that Bill C-39, an Act to provide for the making of supplementary fiscal equalization payments to certain provinces for the period April 1, 1982 to March 31, 1987 be now read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Finance, Trade and Economic Affairs.
She said: Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to bring before the House today Bill C-39, a Bill which relates to fiscal equalization, one of the country's most important programs. The unconditional payments which equalization provides to provinces which are relatively less well off than others make it possible for them to provide their residents with public services on a level that is reasonably comparable with other provinces. In this way, the equalization program provides an assurance to all Canadians, irrespective of where they live, that they may expect to enjoy a reasonable level of public services from their provincial and local Governments. It therefore meets an important objective of our nation and one that is recognized in the Constitution.
The expenditures which the federal Government makes under this program are large and have grown steadily over the years. Beginning at less than $140 million in 1957-58 when the program was introduced, they now total more than $5 billion annually in payments to six provinces. The growth in the program reflects the rising cost of financing public services in Canada generally as well as the persistence of disparities in the abilities of provinces to finance these services through taxation.
This Bill resolves a particular situation which has arisen in the equalization program, one with which this Government was confronted when it took office. It concerns the decline in equalization payments which some provinces are experiencing in 1985-86 and the strong interest which they and other provinces receiving equalization have expressed in obtaining additional federal Government assistance.
The Government's overriding concern in approaching this question was to ensure that its response would be guided by the fundamental principle of fairness. It is the principle of fairness which this Government believes must underlie its relations with the provinces and which provinces expect of us. It was with a desire to be fair that the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) discussed this question extensively with his provincial colleagues over the past several months and listened to representations from interested Canadians in an effort to come to a reasonable solution.
Before addressing the contents of the Bill, it may be useful to elaborate briefly on the circumstances which give rise to this projected decline in payments. In particular it should be understood that in none of the four cases do these declines in payments occur as a result of an expenditure cut or any other action taken by this Government. Rather, they are a reflection of the payments generated by the current equalization program which was enacted in 1982.
There is a particular reason for these declines in payments. This involves the expiry in 1985-86 of the special three-year transitional guarantee provision which was added to the equalization program in 1982. This provision authorized additional payments to provinces over and above their basic equalization entitlements in order to help smooth the shift from one formula to another and give provinces a period in which to adjust to the new system.
As it happened, events differed from what was anticipated in 1982. Basic equalization payments fell considerably below original expectations at the beginning of that year. This was largely as a consequence of the severe economic recession, the effects of which began to be felt soon after the new formula was adopted. At the same time, the transitional guarantee levels remained high because they were based on the growth of equalization payments in the pre-1982 period. As a result, a large gap developed between basic equalization payments which were lowered by the effect of the recession and the guaranteed transition levels which were not. The consequence was heavy reliance on the transition provision by the provinces receiving equalization. These transitional payments have totalled $2 billion over the past three years.
Those provinces faced with declines in payments made representations asking if something could be done to provide continuing additional assistance. The Provinces of New Brunswick and Newfoundland, like the other provinces, have also been concerned about their fiscal situations. These requests for assistance could not have come at a more difficult time for this Government. Having inherited the problem of a very massive deficit which is expected to total more than $34 billion for the year just ended, the federal Government is faced with serious

April 18, 1985
Supplementary Fiscal Equalization Payments
fiscal difficulties of its own. This enormously constrains what it is able to do.
The fact of the matter is that all Governments in Canada, both provincial and federal, are under severe financial pressure. In these circumstances the federal Government had to take very difficult decisions. First, should it do anything at all to provide support to the provinces whose equalization entitlements would decline significantly in 1985-86? Second, if anything could be done, should it be restricted to these provinces, or should something also be done for New Brunswick and Newfoundland, whose capacity to raise revenues is, generally speaking, not as strong as that of other provinces?
[DOT] (mo)
Bill C-39 sets out the Government's response to these questions. It reflects the decision to provide additional payments, to be called "supplementary equalization payments", and a decision that these payments should be made to all six provinces qualifying for equalization. These payments are fixed, lump sum amounts which are set out in the Bill and total $285 million.
The amounts of these payments in 1985-86 are as follows: Manitoba, $50 million; Quebec, $110 million; Nova Scotia, $20 million; Prince Edward Island, $5 million; New Brunswick, $20 million; and Newfoundland, $15 million. In the case of Manitoba, a further $65 million will be paid the following year because current estimates show a further decline in payments in 1986-87.
The amounts of these payments were derived in two ways- one for those provinces confronted with significant declines in equalization payments in 1985-86, and the other for the remaining provinces which received equalization. The first group consists of Manitoba, Quebec and Nova Scotia. In each case the payment to these provinces is based upon current estimates of the amount of additional equalization that each province would receive if its basic equalization entitlements over the next two years were protected by a "95 per cent floor". This provision already exists in the equalization formula for other provinces.
Let me be more specific. The equalization program now protects provinces against declines in payments from one year to the next in a way which varies with their capacity to raise revenues. The highest protection, the 95 per cent floor, is given to those provinces which are not as strong fiscally as others and ensures their payments will decline by no more than 5 per cent from one year to the next.
What the Government is doing in this Bill is giving Manitoba, Quebec and Nova Scotia the benefit of this 95 per cent floor for the purpose of making a lump sum payment which will assist them in the remaining two years of the current program. This payment is also based upon the latest estimates of each province's equalization entitlements.
The second group of provinces consists of Prince Edward Island, which is confronted with a small reduction in 1985-86, New Brunswick and Newfoundland. These provinces have the lowest capacity to raise revenues from taxation. The Government could not exclude them from additional payments being
made to provinces which are in relatively stronger fiscal positions.
Accordingly, the provinces in the second group will also receive lump sum supplementary equalization payments. Specifically, each will receive an amount which, in per capita terms, will equal the average per capita payments to Manitoba, Quebec and Nova Scotia. On this basis, Prince Edward Island will receive an additional $5 million; Newfoundland, $15 million; and New Brunswick, $20 million, all in 1985-86.
[DOT] (ms)

I have often had to explain the method used in calculating these payments, because people wonder why one amount is paid to one province and an entirely different amount to another province. The explanation is simple. The difference is due to the fact that the per capita value of the decline in payments varies according to province. It follows that the per capita value of supplementary equalization payments would be different in each province. For instance, Manitoba will suffer a much greater per capita decline than Quebec or Nova Scotia. For the same reasons, the per capita value of each payment will also differ from province to province.
In any case, payments to provinces that have suffered a considerable decline in their payments have all been fixed on the same basis. Payments to the other provinces were of course determined on a different basis, but that basis is identical for all three. Thus, the Government has done everything in its power to guarantee that supplementary equalization payments will be fair and equitable for the six provinces concerned.

The Government is also acting to ensure that the payments are made to provinces as quickly as possible. The Bill, therefore, provides that payments in 1985-86 will be made within 30 days of its passage. The additional payment to Manitoba will be made in the first month of the 1986-87 fiscal year.
These payments are substantial and should be of considerable assistance to these provinces. They are in addition to some $5.1 billion which the Government expects to make in regular equalization payments this year. Adding the supplementary payments together with estimated regular equalization entitlements, total payments in 1985-86 are expected to be as follows: Manitoba, $458 million; Quebec - which accounts for well over 50 per cent of all equalization payments - $2,920 million; Nova Scotia, $588 million; New Brunswick, $572 million; Newfoundland, $616 million and Prince Edward Island, $130 million. The new supplementary equalization payments will bring total federal expenditures on equalization in 1985-86 to approximately $5.3 billion. This is in addition to the very large amount which the federal Government also provides in transfers to provinces for such purposes as health care and post-secondary education.
Total cash transfers to provinces are expected to exceed $20 billion in 1985-86, accounting for close to 20 per cent or one-fifth of all federal expenditures. With the inclusion of the
April 18, 1985

value of federal income tax transfers to the provinces, the total reaches more than $27 billion.
Legislation is required to authorize the supplementary equalization payments because there is no existing basis upon which such additional payments can be made, nor is there any provision for these payments in the Main Estimates for 198586 or in the Government's present fiscal framework for 198687. The Government is not, through this legislation, attempting to address all of the questions which provinces and others may have about the equalization program. That is the function of the review of the program which takes place every five years and which will be getting underway shortly with a view to meeting the scheduled expiry of the current program in March, 1987.
The purpose of this Bill is to make fixed payments to Canada's less wealthy provinces to help carry them through the two remaining years of the arrangements. As I have said, these are payments which the Government did not have to make and which it is providing to provinces despite its own very serious financial position. While the amounts may not in all cases be as much as provinces had hoped to receive, they are the most that the Government is able to afford in light of its own serious financial situation. They have been calculated on a basis which is fair and reasonable.
In short, the decision has been taken in the spirit of cooperation and mutual understanding that this Government is endeavouring to develop with the provinces so that we may together build a stronger nation from coast to coast.
I earnestly encourage all Hon. Members to support this Bill.


Mr. Speaker, I would have liked to respond in a positive way to the Minister's invitation with respect to Bill C-39, but unfortunately, 1 cannot support this Bill, and, Mr. Speaker, 1 wish to make it quite clear at the beginning of my speech that the Official Opposition intends to oppose the passage of Bill C-39 because it believes that the Bill is, above all, inequitable for Quebec, unfair to Manitoba and inadequate for the Province of Nova Scotia.
During the few minutes 1 am allowed, I intend to explain why we are judging this Bill so severely and also to draw the attention of the public to the fact that in allocating the limited resources available to this Government, the Progressive Conservative Government has preferred to support the cash flow of the oil multinationals instead of supporting that of the provincial Treasuries.
I assume the Bill before the House today, like any other Bill, can be examined in a number of ways. In this particular case, and we have already had an example in the speech just made by the Minister, some Hon. Members will say that the shortfall experienced by several provinces as the equalization formula is applied in 1985-86 and 1986-87 is the result of mistakes made by the previous Government, and that Bill C-39
Supplementary Fiscal Equalization Payments
is an act of great generosity for which the Government deserves to be congratulated. That was exactly the tenor of the Minister's speech, which means I guessed right when 1 was preparing my notes, and it is probably the line of reasoning that will be followed by other speakers on the Government side.
Mr. Speaker, we in the Official Opposition maintain and will continue to maintain that in a democracy, the Parties that form the Government change from time to time, depending on the wishes of the electorate. However, the responsibility of those in power cannot be brushed aside by mere rhetoric, because a government, especially when it has a substantial majority, has the power to make changes. The best example of my premise that a government that wants to make changes can make them is the decision of the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources (Miss Carney) who, supported herein by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney), changed the taxes on the multinational oil companies so that in the years to come, these multinationals will be receiving from the federal Treasury a present worth $2.4 billion. Mr. Speaker, that was a very substantial change: giving $2.4 billion to the oil multinationals was not a decision made by a backbencher but by Ministers, and 1 would say by the Prime Minister himself. Mr. Speaker, it proves that when a government wants to make changes it can do so, even if it costs $2.4 billion. When the Government gave those $2.4 billion to the oil multinationals, the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) did not protest that the public purse could not afford these presents to the multinationals. However, when the Minister of Finance announced on April 1 of this year that Bill C-39 would be tabled in the House, he said the supplementary payments could not be any higher and were the maximum this Government could spend, given the serious state of the Government's finances.
Mr. Speaker, some problems in this country are given more equal treatment than others. 1 find it hard to believe that the Federal Government has $2.4 billion to spare to refresh the cash flow of the oil multinationals and can find only $220 million to achieve a better balance of this country's wealth, the negligible amount it is giving to the provinces.
Before pursuing my detailed analysis of this Bill and its impact, 1 would like to say a few words about the line of reasoning followed by the Progressive Conservatives and the Minister of Finance himself, namely that the problems in applying the equalization formula in 1985-86 are to be blamed solely and entirely on the previous administration.
I shall, if I may, provide some historical context and we shall see whether, aside from the partisan rhetoric being dished up by the Government, there are other, more serious reasons, and to do so, we must go back a few years.
I am not suggesting that all decisions made by a Liberal Government are good and that all decisions made by a Progressive Conservative Government are bad, but I think that

April 18, 1985
Supplementary Fiscal Equalization Payments now and then, when one wants to raise a serious argument, there has to be some give and take.
In 1980-81, the Government advocated a new equalization formula after analyzing the fiscal arrangements for 1982-87. Under the new formula, equalization would apply to 33 instead of 29 revenue sources as had been the case until then. In addition, and this is significant, equalization would be based on the full value of provincial oil and gas revenue rather than on only 50 per cent as was done before. This broadening of revenue sources used to set the amount of equalization payments to the provinces would inevitably result in much higher equalization payments, quite obviously. Some people went so far as to claim that, in certain cases, one of Canada's richest provinces-Ontario-might eventually receive equalization payments under the new formula.
Since the new formula and the wider equalization basis would result in what appeared to be an overly sharp increase, a change was made in the way equalization applied to the various provinces-there were to be 33 instead of 29 revenue sources-and it was decided that equalization would be based on the average of the same per capita revenue sources of five provinces, namely Ontario, Quebec, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and British Columbia, rather than on the national average. That is probably the major change in the equalization formula.
Since it is difficult to predict five or six years in advance the impact of such radical changes, the new legislation provided for a three-year special payment transition period to help the provinces adjust to the new formula and, more particularly, to have sufficient time to assess its consequences with respect to equalization payments. It was with that consideration in mind that the Government and the Minister of Finance introduced transitional payments which featured two elements, and I will have more to say about it later. As I just said, these transitional payments, which include two elements, were made in fiscal years 1982-83, 1983-84 and 1984-85 to the provinces of Quebec, Manitoba, Prince Edward Island, Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. According to the information I have, only the Province of Newfoundland got more money under the new formula than it did under the old one, without even having to ask for interim payments.
Mr. Speaker, I might add that, at the close of that three-year experiment, regardless of the political Party in office in early 1985, it was bound to tackle the issue in an attempt to offset, if necessary, any untoward consequence of having done away with the transitional payment formula. That is exactly what happened, and negotiations began last summer, as the three-year agreement was coming to an end, to see how corrections could be made.
In all honesty, Mr. Speaker, can anyone blame a Government for acting objectively and playing it safe? Who can blame a Minister of Finance who wants to know where he is going before giving eternal guarantees? Besides, the formula adopted in 1981-82 did not set a deadline and, now that the
Constitution has been amended, the equalization formula would remain in force even though fiscal arrangements might be scheduled every five years. That is why transitional payments had been limited to three years, subject to review should adjustments be required.
Therefore, transitional equalization payments were limited just so the impact of the new formula could be measured. Anyone familiar with the complexity of equalization payment computations readily appreciates why the transitional payment formula had to be given a limited lifetime so that stock could be taken.
Having been directly involved, I recall that the federal Government had decided to revamp the whole tax structure in the early 70s-the famous tax reform of the early 70s. The Government had suggested a tax reform and some of the provinces were worried, especially those that have collection agreements and must use the same tax basis.
[DOT] (M30)
In view of the difficulty of forecasting the actual results of such a basic change, the Federal Government had at that time guaranteed the provinces that they would be compensated for any loss if the new taxation system were to produce effects totally different from those under the former system. After five years, the complexity of the calculations was such that it was difficult to carry out the necessary assessments, especially because of the changes made by certain provinces and other changes introduced on a yearly basis to the taxation system by the federal authorities. It had therefore become very difficult to continue to apply this guarantee provision. However, the same formula had already been applied under identical or similar circumstances.
With respect to equalization, as I have already said, the Federal Government wanted to move cautiously and this led people to believe that the transitional payments would have to be cut short lest the new formula or changes in the economic situation should have much more far-reaching results than expected. I do not see why the former Government should be blamed for having wanted to move cautiously so it would not now have to face up to its own responsibilities.
Experience has shown that at least three provinces were penalized by the new formula, but only beginning with the year 1985-86, and that these provinces would lose substantial amounts if provisional payments were discontinued on their behalf. Those provinces are Quebec, Manitoba and Nova Scotia. Mr. Speaker, I said at the beginning of my speech that we of the Official Opposition would oppose this Bill because it is unjust to Quebec, unfair to Manitoba and inadequate in the case of Nova Scotia.
If I may, I will try to use the figures I have here to show, first, why Bill C-39 is inadequate in the case of Nova Scotia. In 1984-85, the Province of Nova Scotia received $600 million in equalization payments, and this included a payment of $72
April 18, 1985

million under the provisional formula. As everyone knows, their transitional payments consist of two amounts. First, there is the provisional guarantee which assures an increase in minimum equalization payments compared with 1981-82. For instance, while I do not have the figures for Nova Scotia, under this part of the transitional payments for Quebec, the increase amounted to 11.7 per cent in 1982-83, 7 per cent in
1983-84, and 3.3 per cent in 1984-85. The other portion of these transitional payments is related to the basic formula, plus the guarantee I have just mentioned, and if there is a shortfall between this amount and the amount produced by the old formula, this shortfall is made up, and the two portions added together make up the transitional payments.
For Nova Scotia, Bill C-39 simply makes up the shortfall for 1985-86 and leaves the Province at the mercy of a decision by the Federal Government for the year 1986-87. Nova Scotia will have to come back on its knees to ask the Minister of Finance for what should be coming to it in 1986-87.
I would like to recall at this point, Mr. Speaker, that equalization payments are unconditional transfers to the provinces and that they must be made according to an equitable formula which does not put the provinces at the mercy of any arbitrary decision of the Canadian Government. If Bill C-39 remains in its present form, 1 maintain that it will not meet the very criteria of equalization and that it will be seen as a totally inadequate settlement for Nova Scotia.
If Bill C-39 is inadequate where Nova Scotia is concerned, the matter is even more complicated for Manitoba and the Bill is unfair to that province. Following the implementation of the new formula, the Province of Manitoba has received in 198283, $439 million, including $169 million in transitional payments, still consisting of the two portions I have already mentioned. In 1983-84, it received $466 million, including $163 million in transitional payments. In 1984-85, Manitoba received $479 million, including $138 million in transitional payments. With these transitional payments coming to an end, the equalization payments for Manitoba will go down from $479 million to $407 million, with a loss of $72 million. Even if we take into account another payment, this one provided for under Section 4(6) of the Fiscal Arrangements Act passed in 1982 which specifies that, for a province with a provincial per capita income in excess of 75 per cent of the national income, equalization entitlement cannot decrease by more than 15 per cent from one year to the next, as I say, even when this payment is taken into account, the loss for Manitoba is still more considerable. This loss figured at $72 million in 1985-86 would have been still more significant in 1986-87 since the payments specified for the last of the fiscal arrangements were supposed to be only $377 million, or $102 million short of the amount received in 1984-85.
The proposal contained in Bill C-39 shows how unfair this is to Manitoba, and the payments which will be made to the Province under Bill C-39 will be far from sufficient to make up
Supplementary Fiscal Equalization Payments the difference. Bill C-39 is simply a band aid measure and it should be amended to correct the injustice which will befall Manitoba. I think that in the case of Manitoba, the situation is even more obvious than that in Nova Scotia, since the figures and projections available for 1986-87 already show that it will be penalized, whereas in Nova Scotia payments could be inadequate, depending on the results of the economic development in that province.
Mr. Speaker, if Bill C-39 is inadequate for Nova Scotia and unfair for Manitoba, the withdrawal of temporary payments becomes an injustice as far as Quebec is concerned, an inequity which should be strongly exposed. All those who have followed the discussions over the years remember that Quebec has always disagreed about the equalization formula and especially about the withdrawal of temporary payments formula effective in the present financial year. As early as the first months of 1981, the pro forma statistics and projections provided by the Department of Finance in Quebec indicated what was going to occur in 1985-86 and 1986-87. The government of Canada stated that the temporary payments provided an adequate guarantee to Quebec, which was the case since those payments covered the losses and were even increased from one year to another. The government of Canada maintained that the temporary payments provided Quebec with an adequate guarantee to try honestly the new formula and, under the circumstances, for each of the years 1982-83, 198384 and 1984-85, the temporary payments varied for Quebec between $350 and $400 million. The figures are clear and the evidence is sufficiently specific. It indicates that the fears of Quebec were well-grounded and this is why Bill C-39 should permanently correct the distortion or at least extend until new negotiations begin in 1987 the enforcement of the clause dealing with the temporary payments due in 1984-85.
I will come back to the matter later because I would like to indicate to the minister right now that if subsection (4) covering the guarantee of temporary payments for 1984-85 is enforced and the percentage remains at one third, the equalization payments made to Quebec in 1985-86 and 1986-87 will only be increased by 3 per cent, which is below the present inflation rate. And it could not be said that those are extravagant payments.
Mr. Speaker, in 1983-84, the temporary payments, as I said, amounted to some $400 million, $399 million on a total of $2,976.6 million. The following year, in 1984-85, the temporary payments amounted to $392 million on a total equalization sum of $3 billion.
When I say that Bill C-39 is unfair for Quebec, you will understand, I hope, why I say so. Indeed, in 1985-86, according to the statistics disclosed by the Minister of Finance on April 2 last, and I know how qualified are the officials computing those figures and I do not doubt that if there are some mistakes of a few hundred dollars, the general tendency and the basic issue are surely correct.

April 18, 1985
Supplementary Fiscal Equalization Payments
In 1984 and 1985, that province has received $3,074 million in equalization payments, and in 1985-1986, that amount will drop to $2,784 million, a loss of $290 million. In 1986-87, according to the estimates, Quebec will get $2,902 million, a reduction of $172 million compared with 1984-85.
In view of the normal growth which should take place from one year to the next, Quebec's loss in the area of equalization payments is quite significant, and Bill C-39 will compensate Quebec for only 15 per cent of its losses in this area. And this, because of the ending of the transitional adjustment payment formula.
If I suggest that the solution proposed in Bill C-39 is unfair for Quebec, Mr. Speaker, it is also because the effects of the formula over the forthcoming years, not the past ones, will not be the same for every province which benefit from equalization payments.
According to the analysis prepared and published by the Quebec Department of Finance, an analysis which to my knowledge has never been contested, it is clear what this formula has meant for all the provinces: an unfair situation for Quebec which is quite different from the other provinces.
Let us take the case of Newfoundland ... I am sorry, Mr. Speaker, I am trying to find my table. I have the figures somewhere else. I am going to quote them. I cannot find my table. In Newfoundland, over the five years the formula will apply, that is three real years for which the figures are already available and the following two years, that province will receive $100 million or $102 million more than under the old formula. In the case of Newfoundland, therefore, the equalization payment formula adopted in 1982 has been far from unfair, since it provided the province with more money than the old formula. And, unless I am mistaken, there have been no need for transitional adjustment payments.
For Prince Edward Island, for the three real years and the two years to come, the province will gain $52 million. Therefore, the formula is not unfair to that province; in fact, the new formula 1982-87 gives it a certain advantage over the 1977-82 formula.
In Nova Scotia, for the five years, the gain is $233 million, but it is mostly concentrated over the first three years because of the interim payments, but the situation becomes very drastic and difficult over the last two years.
In New Brunswick, if we compare again the results for the five year period, three real years plus two estimated years, the gain of the new formula compared to the old formula is $65 million. The formula, therefore, is not unfair for New Brunswick.
In Manitoba, because of the interim payments, the new formula has generated gains over the first three years, but with the ending of the transitional payments formula, the loss over
the last two years will reach some $172 million, which will certainly prove unbearable for the Public Treasury of Manitoba. But for the five years altogether, the formula has still given positive results.
Quebec will be a net loser, because even taking into account the $110 million the Minister has just mentioned and which will be paid under Bill C-39, the net loss for the five years under the new formula compared with the old formula will total $750 million, most of it in 1985-86 and 1986-87, because of the ending of the transitional payments. Quebec is the only province which will be faced with a net loss over the five year period under the new formula as compared to payments that would have been paid under the old formula.
I apologize, Mr. Speaker, for my extensive use of statistics, but as you know this is a complex matter which needs more than words to be properly dealt with, and all through my speech, I have tried to demonstrate with supporting figures that Bill C-39 does not make sense and that after applying the new equalization formula for the last three years, experience clearly shows that if the transition payments I mentioned earlier which the province of Quebec received in the last two years are not maintained in 1985-86 and 1986-87, that formula becomes totally unjust for Quebec, more so from this year on, as I said earlier, because those famous transition payments are abolished.
Therefore I ask the government, the Minister, to delay the passing of this bill for two reasons. I do not make this request lightly. First, the Prime Minister of Canada, the head of government, stated publicly, after the tabling or rather the announcement made in this House by the Minister of Finance, that he was willing to carry on negotiations with the government of Quebec. Therefore, in view of the situation, if the word of the Prime Minister is to be taken seriously and if it means anything, I believe that the government has no right to use its majority in this House to undermine the additional negociations which have been announced by the Prime Minister himself. So we should wait, in my opinion, until further negotiations have been held between the Minister of Finance of Quebec and the Prime Minister of Canada, to see whether Bill C-39 could not be improved upon, right now, because once this bill is passed, even days before a budget is tabled in Quebec and weeks before one is tabled in Ottawa, I do not expect the Minister of Finance or the Minister of State for Finance to come back three weeks later with another bill to change the payments that have just been announced and barely represent 15 per cent of the losses Quebec will incur.
Mr. Speaker, I say that we must postpone the passage of this Bill and give the Federal Government a chance to check whether my information that extending the transitional payments formula applied to Quebec in 1984-85 ... if this formula were to be extended in 1985-86 and 1986-87 ... to check whether the figures I gave, indicating that the increase in equalization over these two years would be only 3 per cent. If
April 18, 1985

that is the case, it seems to me, Mr. Speaker, that an increase in equalization below the inflation rate, and the fact that the Minister of Finance told us recently, only a few days ago, that his budget would be inflationary, so that the inflation rate will certainly rise above 3.7 per cent, since that is where it is today... This means that an increase in equalization in 1985-86 over 1984-85, and in 1986-87 over 1985-86, an increase of 3 per cent, would be below the inflation rate, and I think we should postpone the passage of Bill C-39 to find out, from the negotiations referred to by the Prime Minister, whether the figures I referred to are correct. Mr. Speaker, it seems to me it would be only fair to have the guarantee formula for the last two years of fiscal arrangements, as it refers to equalization, maintained. During the first three years, experience has shown that in the case of Quebec, the transitional payments were indispensable and that for the last two years, the loss will be enormous: $750 million. No government can afford to experience a shortfall in revenue of this magnitude. I would therefore ask the Government to postpone consideration of the Bill to a later date. I am not going to propose a motion, because I do not want to prolong debate unduly, but I do wish to appeal to the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Lanthier), who is a Member from Quebec. As Parliamentary Secretary, he most certainly has access to the statistics and figures that were released by the Government of Quebec. If those figures are incorrect, I wish someone would point out any substantial errors. If we look at the results of the new formula, I say it is unfair to Quebec if transitional payments are not maintained, because even if transitional payments are maintained at the 1984-85 level, that is, by keeping one-third of the rate of growth over previous years, even if transitional payments are maintained at one-third, what does this give the other provinces per capita? The Minister referred to payments per capita. Leaving aside Bill C-39, this would mean that Newfoundland, for instance, would be favoured with an increase of $175 per capita under the new formula, over the old formula.
If we take Prince Edward Island, new formula over old, not including additional payments under Bill C-39, this amount is $422; Nova Scotia: $250 per capita; New Brunswick: $93, if we consider the 122 addition; Manitoba: $6, and this province is the worst off and because the transitional payments formula has been scrapped, this becomes negative, but Quebec is the only province where per capita payments have dropped $113, as a result of the expiry of transitional payments. By these payments beeing reinstated for the last two years, this gap can be corrected and Quebec's per capita payments can be brought up to the provincial average.
I wanted to mention these inequities, not necessarily to make a political point but to point out that I do not understand the "equities" referred to by the Minister in his per capita reports. I read the statement by the Minister of Finance, I
Supplementary Fiscal Equalization Payments examined it and I could not understand the meaning of the word "equity" in terms of the application of Bill C-39. Upon further analysis, I also realized-I had a chance to read what was said by the Quebec Minister of Finance in the National Assembly on April 2 of this year-that I was not the only one who did not understand and who objected.
This is what the Quebec Minister of Finance said in the National Assembly on April 2 of this year, and I am quoting Mr. Duhaime: "I am very disappointed," he said, in referring to the announcement made by the Minister of Finance, "because the Federal Government has obviously refused to recognize the inequities generated by the new program vis-avis Quebec". He also said: "I am surprised and in fact astonished at the complete absence of logic in the arrangement provided in Bill C-39. This arrangement provides for payments to provinces which, accordingly to the Federal Government's own forecast, will not experience any drop in their equalization entitlements in 1985-86 and which, furthermore, have greatly benefited from the changes made in the equalization program in 1982." Mr. Speaker, a few moments ago I explained how the new equalization formula had been beneficial except for Manitoba and Nova Scotia, for the last two years and in varying degrees, and that generally, the equalization formula adopted in 1981-82 had benefited all provinces except Quebec. As I said before, in the case of Quebec, it is because the Government has refused to extend transitional payments that were included in the formula in Bill C-97 that was adopted by this House. All Canadian provinces receiving equalization payments have benefited in various degrees which I indicated, with the exception of Manitoba for the last two years, and this was also because the transitional payments formula was dropped, but on the whole, even Manitoba has received more money under the new formula than it would have received under the old one. Only Quebec has been severely penalized by the fact that transitional payments were dropped, even allowing for Bill C-39, and I maintain that there is an inequity here that must be remedied.
And obviously, the Minister of Finance can try... At the outset of my remarks, I alluded to the comments of the Minister of Finance concerning the ability to pay, it was the best he could do. Things have to be set in the proper perspective, and I want to caution the public as well as the Parliamentary Secretary-I know he is a serious man and wants to uphold the interests of Quebec, I am sure-and the other Quebec Members in the House. As a group or as a Party you might try to blame the former Government. That will be easy. You will have to take a bow, your constituents will congratulate you, but Quebec will not even get a nickel. Again I say that Quebec was not penalized under the three-year formula including transitional payments, but from this day on, it becomes the responsibility of this administration, the Progressive Conservative Government. Blame the former Government if you want-as I said, you will have to take a bow-but that

April 18, 1985
Supplementary Fiscal Equalization Payments is not going to redress the injustice and inequity done to Quebec by dropping transitional payments. I hope the Minister will get together with the Minister of Finance, the Parliamentary Secretary and the other Quebec Members who might take time to consider carefully the full implication of eliminating transitional payments beginning in 1985-86; get together, raise the issue in caucus, your Quebec caucus, and you will see that it does not make sense, that transitional payments must be kept in the law. I suggest that they be maintained at the
1984-85 level and, if you Figure it out, you will find out that Quebec would not even get the full $750 million it stands to lose. It would be less than $750 million, but definitely more than the $110 million you recommend. As I see it, it would amount to something like $400 million or $450 million. But even at that, if the Progressive Conservative Government and the Members from Quebec examine the matter properly, and I urge them to do so, it is clear that with this formula Quebec will get less than any of the other provinces, on a per capita or nominal dollar basis, even if transitional payments are maintained at the 1984-85 level.
That is why 1 strongly urge the House to reconsider Bill C-39 in light of the facts I have just mentioned and keeping in mind that the Prime Minister of Canada said that the door was still open. However, once Bill C-39 has been given second reading, gone through committee stage and been stamped by the Senate, the door will be closed, padlock and all, and we will have to wait until 1987 before reviewing this matter.
In my opinion, Mr. Speaker, this is a basic question, a question of equity. Now that the Government of Quebec is considering the possibility of making proposals to the Canadian Government so that Quebec might become a full-fledged member of the Canadian Confederation, I think that if we look at Bill C-39 in that context, it is important and even imperative to reintroduce the transitional guarantee payments for the last two years. This way at least the equalization formula would not be a source of inequity as it is now, even though Bill C-39 will mean more money, but as a whole there would be more fairness, and I think that Quebec would then be on the same footing as the other provinces. Quebec is not seeking hand-outs or payments to which it has no right, it simply wants to have equitable per capita payments, with due consideration for the economic situation as described in the equalization formula whose principle is now entrenched in the Canadian Constitution.


Mr. Speaker, I first want to indicate that I am glad that the Government has moved to increase the funding to some of the have-not provinces in Canada. I will say a few more words which are not nearly as complimentary, but I do congratulate it for implementing a move toward fairness in this country.
In doing so, I think we have to realize where the real blame belongs. That blame should lie with the previous Liberal Government. In 1981-82, the Liberal Government of the time
knew that the equalization legislation it was bringing in would have the result of decreasing the amount of money that certain provinces would be receiving at this time. The transition payments about which the last Liberal speaker spoke so much were a step to cover the situation for a three-year period only. Liberal Government Members of the time knew that as of April 1, 1985, some provinces including Manitoba and Quebec would be receiving less money than they received in the previous year. That was something about which we and the Conservative Opposition Party told the Liberal Government. We do not want to say we told you so, but that is obviously the situation. The Liberal Government knowingly cut funding to some of the have-not provinces in this nation.
I do not think we can be completely nice to the Government of the day, and you would not expect me to be, Mr. Speaker.


Why not?


Some Conservative back-benchers are asking why not. The reason I cannot be completely nice to them throughout my speech is that it would be intellectually dishonest to do so. We do realize that the Conservative Government, when it was first elected, had no intention of moving on the equalization issue.


You don't know that.


We do know that because the Minister left his briefing notes in the City of Winnipeg. Those notes were not left around on purpose. An unkind wag said that the Minister left his briefs in Winnipeg and that his office tried to tape up the situation. Seriously speaking, what that did point out to the people of Manitoba, Quebec, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island was that the Government had no intention of moving on this issue. It is a fact that a number of meetings were held at the request of provincial Governments in order to get this Government to move. I have already congratulated the Government for moving at least a step in the right direction.
So that the people of Canada and particularly the people of the provinces affected know the situation, it is necessary for me to go into it in a bit more detail. The legislation before us at this time does not provide the have-not provinces with the same amount of money they received last year. It provides them with only 95 per cent of the previous year's funding from the federal Government. That does not even allow for inflation. If we allow for the increase in the cost of living and for the inflation that exists in this country, those provinces are obviously receiving less than 95 per cent of what they received last year.
In the second year of this Bill, although the Government speaks of the fact that Manitoba will receive an extra $65 million, Manitoba will only be receiving at most 95 per cent of what it will receive this year. There will be a downward incline with Manitoba First receiving 95 per cent of last year's allowance and then the next year receiving 95 per cent of this year's allowance. There is no guarantee in this legislation that if the
April 18, 1985

federal financial figures change, Manitoba will receive the full 95 per cent. By including a block amount of $65 million for next year, the Government seems to be indicating that if the economic situation in this nation changes, Manitoba is guaranteed only the $65 million even though it may end up being only 85 per cent or 90 per cent of what it receives at the present time.
When we get into committee, I would be happy if the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) or his designate would indicate the Government's intentions for next year. Is this $65 million for the Province of Manitoba the only guarantee for the people of that province or will there be some indication that there will be a further piece of legislation if it is necessary at this time next year?
We also have problems with the very concept of funding that is 95 per cent of what was received in the previous year. In the original legislation that was passed in 1982, the intent was that the 95 per cent floor existed not for those provinces that were in further need but for those provinces that might improve drastically their economic situation within the nation. For example, it was thought optimistically that perhaps Nova Scotia and Newfoundland would have more jobs and more provincial revenues as a result of oil production in those provinces. The Government of the day indicated that if that were to happen, it would not drastically cut the equalization money overnight but would guarantee a floor of 95 per cent of the money received in the previous year.
That was a very reasonable attitude. It is an attitude I wish the Government would take when dealing with unemployment insurance and welfare recipients who begin to earn salaries after they have been laid off or unemployed for a certain length of time. There should be some guarantees for those people when they go back to work. The concept existed and it was a good concept but it was never meant for those provinces that had the same need or could demonstrate increased need.
With this legislation, the Government has taken that same concept of a floor which was only to be applied for provinces that were improving their situations and has indicated that that is the most that provinces that are in worse situations will receive. The document that was left in Manitoba by the Minister of Finance indicated that Manitoba was the province that faced the most difficult situation with regard to equalization yet the Government is only moving to provide 95 per cent of the money the province received in the previous year. I think the Hon. Member for Brandon-Souris