The House resumed from Friday, May 31, consideration of the motion of Mr. Wilson (Etobicoke Centre) that this House approves in general the budgetary policy of the Government.
Mr. Speaker, when I interrupted my remarks at five o'clock on Friday 1 was talking about Canada's dominant world position in the production of some of the radio isotopes most widely used in cancer therapy and the tremendous work done by the Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories. 1 spoke about the development of small reactors for heat and electricity in remote communities, which is very useful for a country like Canada. There are numerous other programs designed to ensure that nuclear power is the safest form of energy; 1 talked about continuing the development of nuclear science and to apply it in many different and peaceful ways. I emphasize "peaceful" because that is the type of nuclear energy I am talking about today.
The Government does not seem to appreciate fully the fact that all the technical and scientific capabilities of this program cannot be picked over to select some for continuation and some for termination. This has been done before anything has been put in place to take up the slack. Will the question of who should have been funding an abandoned program be addressed only when some unexpected technical difficulty has idled Ontario Hydro's reactors and we have an energy problem? We have been assured that health and safety aspects of the atomic energy programs will not be cut, but has the Government really examined the effect on these programs of the envisaged reduction in AECL research manpower? Radio isotope production for cancer therapy, for example, depends on the operation of reactors serving many other purposes. Extracting the isotopes is dependent on many technical skills. You cannot cut off the muscle power in the human limbs and still run a competitive race any more than you can cut off in-depth research and development on nuclear energy or Candu technology, and still remain competitive in the reactor market of the world.
The most worrying aspect of the comments of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) on AECL is that none of those considerations seem to have been discussed. One wonders if they have been addressed or whether one of Canada's few successes in high technology is going to be casually sacrificed, bit by bit, for a superficially favourable entry on the right side of the budget ledger. The Government just wants AECL to make it look good. The Government wants $100 million of the research and development money of AECL over the next five years. It wants $50 million of the earned savings of AECL this year and another $20 million next year.
The Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) is telling AECL not to worry about all the firm commitments the Government made to the Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories during the last election campaign. The Prime Minister's commitment was not worth the paper it was written on. Because of Candu technology, Canada is today the fourth largest producer of hydroelectric power in the world. Only the United States, the Soviet Union, and Japan produce more hydroelectric power than Canada. Pickering is one of our prides. There is far more power generated there since its beginning than it was ever thought would be produced at Niagara Falls.
The people working and living in the communities for many miles surrounding the Chalk River laboratories are worried. Deep down they are hurt and angry because they feel that they have been had by the Government. In the next two years alone, $110 million will be taken from them. That is a sudden shock which the industry cannot absorb at a time when nothing is in place to take up the slack. On the basis of this budget decision the nation is wondering whether it can remain competitive or whether one of the greatest successes in science research in the country, namely Candu technology, will be gradually destroyed.
I appeal to the Government to give the Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories a chance to continue this program. Keep the faith with them. Our science and research is in good shape in that area in this country. I appeal to the Prime Minister and the Government to keep this commitment. No one in the country will ever be sorry. Indeed, we will become competitive in the world, and AECL will become a jewel of pride for the country. I ask parliamentarians, as loyal Canadians, to take part in that pride in the production of modern technology, such as the Candu reactor, cancer research and other AECL programs for the good of Canadians and indeed for the good of the world.
[DOT] (mo)


Mr. Speaker, will the Hon. Member elaborate
on what he believes the future of nuclear energy will be,
particularly with the NDP-Liberal alliance in Ontario? Does

June 3, 1985
The Budget-Mr. Hopkins
he think that this bodes well for the future of nuclear energy, particularly with respect to the very clear policy espoused by the federal NDP?
Would he also comment on the fact that it was John Diefenbaker and John Robarts, who was then Premier of Ontario, who initiated the construction of the first commercial-sized Candu reactor in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, 1 expected the pressure in this debate to be diverted from the main issue in the very manner shown by the Hon. Member. It is the present Government that is cutting $100 million from Atomic Energy of Canada research and development for Candu reactor technology. It is also removing $70 million from its reserves.
The Hon. Member should not tell me about what Mr. Diefenbaker did for high technology in this country. We remember the Avro Arrow and we know what is happening today. There is a parallel between that Government and the present Government.
I would remind the Hon. Member that it was the Right Hon. C.D. Howe who started this high technology research in Canada 40 years ago. He must be turning over in his grave today at what is happening to that jewel of high tech which he created together with the Liberal Government of the day.
The Hon. Member talks about the Liberal-NDP alliance in Ontario. That is nothing compared to what is happening with the present Government. During the last election campaign, the Prime Minister sent a telex stating his commitment to the Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories, a commitment which is stronger than a promise. Yet the Minister of Finance introduced a Budget which is cutting research and development of Candu reactors in this country by $100 million over the next five years. As if that is not enough, the Government wants to make itself look good by reducing the national debt, so it will take $50 million from the earned savings of the company in 1985-86 and another $20 million next year. That is $110 million in total to be taken from the company in the first two years. That is a clear indication of the Government's intent to kill that company.
Furthermore, the discussions, which have presumably taken place, have produced nothing to replace those cuts. The Budget indicates that the Government will negotiate with Ontario Hydro, the provinces and other agencies to try to find people to take up the slack and work with Atomic Energy of Canada Limited. We have heard nothing about any action in that regard.
There are 2,350 employees at Chalk River who are concerned about what is happening to them today and to the 40 years of research that has taken place. The Government ran a campaign on what it would do for research and development. At the same time, it is downgrading and gradually destroying Atomic Energy of Canada Limited. That industry does a great deal of work for private enterprise. The Government correctly puts emphasis on private enterprise. I favour private enterprise, particularly when it produces jobs and works well. However, private enterprise cannot afford the equipment used
in high-tech research at Chalk River nuclear laboratories and within AECL generally. Therefore, it contracts out to Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories, which can take on any problem and come up with an answer.
U5)
Do not try to pass the buck to the Ontario Government. The new Ontario Government, hopefully, will have a new resource available to it called decision-making. This Tory Government we have here today has obviously been talking to the Government of Ontario over past months, but what has it come up with? Both Governments are Conservative. Do not talk to me about an alliance. The Government has decided to go ahead with this cut, upsetting the science community. For every scientist who becomes unemployed or goes south of the border or elsewhere, we will have a brain drain once again for which the Conservative Party was famous under the leadership of the Right Hon. John G. Diefenbaker, something which the Hon. Member mentioned, not I. Right now we can make the decision whether to continue to move ahead with high-tech and whether we shall service all those companies that need research and development, whether we shall continue in-depth cancer research, because not very many people realize that Chalk River is the birthplace of the cancer therapy unit.


It was not touched.


Of course it was not touched. It was first put into action in London, Ontario. The Hon. Member for Bramp-ton-Georgetown (Mr. McDermid) said it was not touched. 1 did not say it was touched. What I said in my speech, and I will back up, is that you cannot be selective. You cannot go to an organization with in-depth expertise such as is in the Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories and, on a selective basis, say, "We are going to cut this and shove it aside. We are going to shove this aside but we are going to keep research on health and safety". You cannot do that.


Why not?


You need reactor research to produce medical isotopes. You cannot cut off your left arm and still carry the same pile of papers you carried before.


Mr. Speaker, I think the Hon. Member has established several things. First, he does not care about the debt. Second, he likes to talk about the livestock after the horses are out of the barn. One of the things in which people who might read these debates on Chalk River will be interested in what C. D. Howe actually did. Those who go back far enough and really understand what happened at the time know that because of him we lost ten years in our nuclear energy program. He did not like what they came up with. He said no, and it was held in abeyance for ten years. That is not a very broadly known secret, but that is the truth. When John Diefenbaker came to power he had a choice between an aeroplane that would not travel high enough and the Candu system. He chose the Candu system. That is why Ontario is where it is and why Canada is where it is.
June 3, 1985

Would the Hon. Member comment on the number of engineers who have been laid off by AECL in the past two years and the difference between that and what he is trying to tell us? He is very good at raising fears and concerns among people in the nuclear industry.
Could the Hon. Member explain to us the real strength in the nuclear industry and whether he thinks things have been OK in the last four or five years in the way Canada has been proceeding with the Candu system and the whole nuclear energy system? Has it been fine and dandy? Would the Hon. Member have kept the two heavy water plants going the way they were going? Could he comment on why we have had so many sales of Candu reactors abroad in the last four or five years? Could the Hon. Member explain some of those things to us? Is he arguing for the status quo?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member starts talking about the great successes of the previous longer term Conservative Government in the late 1950s and early 1960s. If that Government had been so good it would have lasted a few more years than it did.
The Hon. Member said that I do not care about the national debt. Let me tell the Hon. Member that one does not solve the national debt by destroying the very base of the high-tech research and development in Canada that helped companies around the world to solve problems. They in turn create capital. The Hon. Member knows that industries cannot go on year after year without in-depth research. If they cut back on research and development, where does it leave productive companies which in fact produce the tax dollars that help to retire the national debt? When they start cutting back one, two or three research laboratories and saying that they are doing something for the national debt, it is a farce.
The Hon. Member also talked about employment, scientists and so on. Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories have the kind of scientists who do not have to worry about jobs. In fact, we have many friends around the world because these scientists are members of various world organizations. I pointed out some time ago that possibly the lowest level of employment at Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories in the last 20 years occurred in December 1979 when his Party was in power. If he wants to check the facts and figures, they are there. He should not try to throw that red herring across the floor of the House. He accused me of raising fears. Who is really raising the fears? Who started this great scenario? It was the Minister of Finance who started this scenario in his Budget a week ago on Thursday night. It was the Prime Minister who sent a telex to Chalk River Nuclear Laboratories and made a firm commitment that the Conservative Party, if elected, would be solidly behind them. Then what happened?


Answer the question.


The Hon. Member for Brampton-Georgetown has a lot of shouting to do. He can shout away. I do not blame him for shouting. He should have a guilt complex. The
The Budget-Mr. Andre
Minister of Finance came in here and virtually cut this Crown corporation by $170 million, a corporation which has been productive over the years. I just want to say-


Order, please. I regret to interrupt the Hon. Member, but unfortunately the period for questions and comments is over.


Mr. Speaker, I say to the Hon. Member for Renfrew-Nipissing-Pembroke (Mr. Hopkins) that I don't have a guilt complex. I have listened to the budget debate and that to which I could not listen, I read about. It established clearly in my mind-and I think it would be the case in the mind of any objective listener-that the two opposition Parties have transformed themselves-perhaps they have always been that way, but in disguise-into the two most reactionary Parties the country has ever seen. All I have heard in the debate, stripped of its frills, was a demand that we continue the economic policies of the last 15 years-spend, spend, spend; do not cut, do not cut, do not cut; forget about the future. Occasionally there has been a genuflection toward the fact that we should be concerned about the deficit, but there has not been a single worth-while suggestion as to how in fact the deficit should be addressed.
Fifteen years of those policies have led us to the point where we have had one of the worst recessions since the 1930s, highest unemployment rates and a monstrous debt which we are leaving as a legacy to our children. That is what the last 15 years of Liberal policies, supported by the New Democratic Party when it really counted, have brought us.
What do the Members of the opposition Parties say? They say that they want more of the same. Last September, Canadians voted for change. They voted not just for a change in policy-though they certainly wanted a change in policy-but for a new approach to making public policy.
As Hon. Members will recall, there was good reason for this new approach. After all, what state were we in last September? We were a country whose confidence in the future had all but disappeared. We had more than 1.6 million unemployed. We had a budgetary deficit so out of control that it had to be revised upwards on a monthly basis. We had a national debt approaching $200 billion and threatening to double within five years. In western Canada, the economy had been totally throttled, destroyed by a disastrous national energy policy. What have we heard from the NDP Members during this debate? "How dare you undo the national energy policy," they said. They want it to stay in place. It amazes me when members of the NDP from the West say that. It is almost as if they needed the votes of the unemployed in order to get re-elected. It seems as if they might be in danger of losing their seats if people were put back to work.
Among other things, farmers and small businesses were going bankrupt in record numbers last fall, due partially to record high interest rates brought on by economic policies

June 3, 1985
The Budget-Mr. Andre
about which the opposition Parties say we need more of. At that time, our investment capital supply had completely dried up.
As we discuss some of the implications of the first Budget of our Government, it is worth remembering where we started, Mr. Speaker. In November, the Government set out an agenda for economic renewal. It set out its principles and new policy directions. We said we would make the necessary changes to promote growth, to create jobs and to improve social programs. We said we would act fairly. We said we would consult with Canadians before we acted. We said we would avoid unilateral decision making wherever possible. Also, we said we would bring government spending under control.
Since then, we have listened to the concerns and aspirations of Canadians, in the most extensive consultative process ever undertaken in Canada. This Budget reflects the sound advice we received from Canadians with respect to a wide range of issues.
The first Budget of the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) focuses upon three strategic means to address our economic problems. It focuses; first, upon the encouragement of private sector initiative and risk taking; second, upon the improvements to the efficiency and management of government programs and services; and third, upon the control and ultimate reversal of the spiralling deficit. The encouragement of initiative and risk taking in the private sector is fundamental to new job-creation efforts. New business activity and employment will be created in an environment free from government intervention. The Government will be a catalyst-not a hindrance.
In order to encourage more Canadians to invest in Canada's growth, the Government is proposing a lifetime capital gains exemption for individuals of $500,000. The full $500,000 exemption will be available to ranchers and farmers immediately, in recognition of their special problems and their contribution to Canadian society. I wonder if members of the New Democratic Party from Saskatchewan are opposed to this particular provision.
This measure alone will benefit over one million Canadians.
I have heard members of the Opposition say it is of benefit only to the rich. It might interest Hon. Members to know that the vast majority of Canadians who are taxed for capital gains earn less than $40,000 a year. The vast majority are not rich, as implied by the opposition Members in their criticisms. The vast majority who fall into this category are middle class and lower middle class Canadians.
What the Government is saying loudly and clearly is that we want to reward success and not subsidize effort. We just heard the tail-end of a speech by the Hon. Member for Renfrew-Nipissing-Pembroke (Mr. Hopkins) in which he suggested we should continue our subsidies to effort. He said we should continue that even though, after years and years, that subsidy has not produced any economic benefit. It has not provided the value it ought to have provided.
The Government is challenging Canadians to create jobs and wealth by investing in Canadian enterprise. The capital gains incentive is a strong signal indicating that the Government wants people with good ideas and the will to persevere to be rewarded for their success. We are confident that Canadians will accept that challenge and we have reason to be confident as evidenced by the reactions of spokesmen for the small business sector.
Small and medium-sized business will also benefit from our proposals to change regulations governing RRSP pension fund investments. These changes will encourage investment in small business by two of the largest and fastest growing pools of capital in Canada.
There are other measures to encourage private-sector growth and job creation. These include tax credits to individuals investing in labour-sponsored venture capital funds set up to invest in small and medium-sized business. I have not been able to discern the reaction of members of the NDP to that particular giveaway, to use their language. Perhaps that is because it was a suggestion made by Louis Laberge of the Quebec Federation of Labour that we encourage investment by labour people in the small business sector, something we applaud greatly. I would hope that one of the members of the New Democratic Party would have the grace to applaud the Government for exempting the small business sector from the 5 per cent corporate surtax.
Contrary to the statements made as recently as last night by the Leader of the New Democratic Party (Mr. Broadbent) who said on television that taxes to corporations have been cut, there is a 5 per cent corporate surtax. That does not represent a cut in anyone's language except that of the Leader of the New Democratic Party. As well, the small business bond program will be extended until 1987.
In addition, the Western Accord signed last month signalled a new era in the relationship between western Canada and the federal Government. As well, it will end the unmitigated disaster of the National Energy Program. These changes, among others, indicate the Government's commitment to fairness and equity and brings to a close that chapter of western history in which the federal Government unilaterally changed the rules of the game and indeed became one of the players, costing this country at least 150,000 permanent jobs.
All of those mesures and incentives have a single objective, and that is, to put economic decision making back in the hands of private entrepreneurs so that they can create jobs and be rewarded for their success. The potential of these changes is enormous. It has been said before, but bears repeating, that if every small business in Canada generated one single job, the unemployment rate would decrease by 50 per cent.
In the last 12 years, over two-thirds or something in the order of 70 per cent of all new jobs in Canada were created by small business. During the recession, more than 100 per cent of all new jobs were created by small business because big business was cutting back. There are 20,000 fewer employees
June 3, 1985

in the auto industry today than there were a few years ago because of automation and improved productivity made necessary by international competition. It is the small business sector that is generating those meaninful, long-term jobs that count ant that contribute to wealth.
Those who suggest we should carry on the practices of the last 15 years through the so-called government job-creation programs, through which grants were handed out for people to paint for the fourth year in a row the white picket fence around the local cemetery, call that job creation. Those are the kinds of absurd policies which have led to this disaster. It is difficult to understand how any responsible parliamentarian can continue to advocate that sort of thing, yet that is all I have heard from both opposition Parties.
Opposition Members want more of what we have had for 15 years. Surely modern history demonstrates that the private sector is the only sector in which meaningful, long-term jobs are created. It is the small business sector which will be the generator of those jobs. I hope that, at some point in time, some members of the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party will have the grace to acknowledge that fact. We are not asking for applause, but I hope they will at least acknowledge the fact that this Budget will be of very significant help to the small business sector. The small business sector is responsible for the vast majority of job creation in this country and in that regard at least, the Government deserves applause.


Hear, hear!


This Budget also takes up the challenge of fiscal responsibility that has been ignored for so long that it has become the very root of our economic problems. In this Budget, the Government has set for itself the fundamental goal of eliminating the obstacles to economic renewal posed by waste and inefficiency in Government itself. During the past few months, Canadians have told us emphatically through extensive consultations that they are willing to share in the burden of deficit reduction as long as the Government demonstrates its commitment to the same process. They want us to get our house in order.
The Budget contains measures that will result in a more efficient, effective, responsive Government. In my Department alone, we have managed to save $100 million within Statistics Canada without reducing the level of service. The Supply side of my Department is on full cost recovery and more of my Department is moving to full cost recovery. The Supply side is on a program of increased efficiency that will see the reduction in the next three years of some $20 million in the charges we make to other Departments for the services we provide. As the old joke goes, with $20 million here and $20 million there, we will soon be talking real money.
As we announced in the Budget, we are privatizing Canadian Arsenals Ltd. Corporation. We have already folded up Crown Assets Disposal. We have integrated the management of the Supply side and the Services side to eliminate duplication and prevent unnecessary growth. That will result in substantial savings to the taxpayer and will increase efficiency
The Budget-Mr. Andre
and effectiveness. These things are being pursued by every Department of Government. Every Minister is aggressively pursuing these kinds of initiatives, leading to a much more efficient, effective use of taxpayers' dollars and, incidentally, to a happier Public Service.


What a statement! Read the weekend press.


The Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier (Mr. Gauthier) laughs.


Lose your job and you'll be happy?


He is implying that his constituents and other public servants like to be associated with inefficient, wasteful activities, and he is dead wrong.


Not when they lose their jobs.


They do not want to be associated with such activities.
In addition, the Government has identified programs and policies that can be eliminated as they serve no useful purpose, and this will create further significant savings. The task force chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Nielsen) is carrying out a comprehensive examination of government programs. It did an inventory and found that there are 1,053 different government programs. Not surprisingly, there is some duplication. Some of the results of that study were reflected in this Budget, and others will be forthcoming.
The work of these joint public-private sector committees will continue to improve the management of government programs and services. The Public Service Pension Plan will be put on a fully funded basis with no taxpayer subsidy. Full indexation of MPs' and Senators' pensions will be terminated effective January 1. The size of the Public Service will be reduced. There will be no compensation for inflation in the Government's operating and capital budgets. We are operating with no indexation for inflation within our own operations.
Making programs more effective does not simply mean cutting expenditures. It aslo means that limited resources must first go to those in need. The Government is taking action to ensure that our social programs are more progressive and fair. We have announced changes to a wide range of social programs, job benefits, pension reforms and RRSPs and greater fairness in the tax system itself.
The first two goals which the Budget is designed to address are encouragement of private-sector initiative and improvement of effectiveness in the management of government services. The third goal is the control of our spiralling national debt. This Budget attacks that major problem.
Control of the debt is critical for a number of reasons, not the least of which is the crippling effect of the deficit on our ability to respond to new social and economic needs. Hon. Members opposite have talked about the cuts which have been made, the adjustments and so on. They have told us that we

June 3, 1985
The Budget-Mr. Andre
should have more compassion. I would ask them to show a little bit of compassion for people in the future and the situation in which they will find themselves if the deficit is not controlled. If the deficit is not controlled, Canadians will look forward to the same situation in which Argentinians and Brazilians find themselves in trying to cope with monstrous inflation rates which are a direct result of those Governments running deficits year after year. We cannot continue to do that without putting the future of all Canadians, particularly young Canadians, and the economy into jeopardy.
Some will say that we have not cut the deficit enough. Some will say that we have cut the deficit too much. Bringing the deficit under control in the right way is the way to maintain confidence in the economy. There are no magic studies to which the NDP continues to refer. There is no computer program which will indicate the right level of deficit to reach-the nirvana which we all want. We know that the deficit must be controlled. The right level is a question of judgment. We have consulted widely with Canadians, more than any other Government in Canadian history, in trying to establish what would be the appropriate level. If we cut too far, we are in danger of affecting confidence because of the reaction which would result from the cuts. If we do not cut at all and the deficit continues to increase, we very seriously jeopardize the confidence factor in the economy and the future ability of the Government to act.
We have made some very significant steps in the right direction. We believe that it is the appropriate level. Had we not made the changes and followed the advice of the Opposition-no cuts, continue spending, and more programs-we know that the situation in the country would be worse next year than it is now. We have had 15 years of those policies.
We have also had to deal with the question of indexation. I was a strong advocate of indexation. When indexation was proposed, we were dealing with constant dollars and it seemed to be a fair system. However, after reading extensively and talking with senior economists, the Government of Brazil and the Government of Israel, 1 am satisfied beyond a shadow of a doubt that indexation is not a cure for inflation; it is a part of the problem. It had to be addressed. We have taken-


You did not say that when you were on this side of the House.


That is right. I have changed my mind in the last 10 years.


You promised to keep it during the election campaign. That is what your Leader said.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to repeat what I said. Members opposite have established for me my original thesis, namely, that the most reactionary Party in Canada is the NDP. Don't change anything, even if it does not work! Carry on with what we have been doing for 15 years, even if it does not work. Never change. That is the NDP line.
Change is what Canadians voted for in September and change is what we are bringing for a better future for Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I have two or three comments which I would like to make. First, as he is the Minister of Supply and Services, he will understand the concern of people in the Public Service of Canada over the cuts which have been proposed. I would like an assurance from him that there will be no lay-offs in the Public Service as a result of the cuts which have been announced by the Government, which will take effect over the course of the next five or six years. Certainly, it is feasible to have that shrinkage without lay-offs. While I have concerns about the direction in which the Government is going, if it feels the need to shrink, 1 would like the assurance that it will be achieved without lay-offs.
Second, the Minister said that the Conservatives promised change when they assumed power on September 4. it is now clear that they have changed their minds on absolutely every policy which was advocated during the course of the election campaign. The Minister knows that it was the Progressive Conservatives who originally advocated the indexation of the personal tax system. Now they are abandoning that to the tune of 3 per cent a year. The Minister knows that during the election campaign the Progressive Conservatives promised to maintain, not to undercut, the indexation of pension incomes. However, now that they are in office, they are undermining those pensions to the tune of 3 per cent per annum. That will mean that a person who is 50 years old today will have a pension which will be worth only half of his current purchasing power by the time that person reaches the normal retirement age of 65. That is not the maintenance of a sacred trust. It is an erosion of the sacred trust to the tune of 3 per cent per year.
Does the Minister believe that it is equitable to remove taxes from 5 per cent or 10 per cent of the population of Canada who invest heavily in the stock market or in real estate? They will be in a position to benefit from the capital gains tax exemption to the point where they will be able to save $125,000. Does the Minister believe it is fair to those people to do that at the same time that the Government has decided to erode progressively the old age pension for people who often find themselves in poverty, who have worked a lifetime, and who expect, when they retire, that the sacred trust, which the Government is now abandoning, will be honoured?


Mr. Speaker, first, I would like to address the question of lay-offs. There is no intent to lay off public servants. The intent is to downsize the Government in a reasonable and proper manner, by virtue of the fact that in the 1,053 different programs which the Deputy Prime Minister has discovered there is duplication and activities which no longer make sense in terms of the changing needs and priorities of Canada. By way of example, one of my first responsibilities was to wind up the Canadian Unity Information Office. There were approximately 79 employees involved. Ultimately, only one person was laid off after eight months. We tried everything possible to avoid that. We did everything we
June 3, 1985

could to find employment for that person in the Public Service. He had received several offers, but had turned them down because they did not meet his requirements. That is the kind of approach which we will use. It should not be difficult. Within my Department, the normal turnover is more than 500 employees a year, due to retirements, transfers and so on. With that kind of turnover, there should be no difficulty in accommodating the downsizing without resorting to lay-offs.
The Hon. Member referred to indexation. He is right. In 1972 and 1973 I was a strong advocate of indexation. I believed in that because we were dealing with constant dollars and we could stop the bracket creep produced by the so-called progressive income tax system. It was fair. It was a restraint on Government if taxes did not automatically increase due to inflation. In fact, if Governments wanted to increase taxes, they had to make that concrete step. I still feel that way, but the result of full indexation has had the effect of automatically biasing things toward inflation. In a free market situation, when prices increase on a commodity-and the one law of social sciences which I accept absolutely is the law of supply and demand-there should be a decrease in demand. But when prices go up and there is an automatic salary adjustment to meet that increase, the market does not get a chance to operate and you have an inflationary spiral.
That is most emphatically the reason why countries like Israel have 300 per cent inflation today, and they will tell you point blank that full indexation is the reason. They admit it was a terrible error because it stopped the law of supply and demand working in both directions. But the Hon. Member is being unfair in the extreme in relating that to the question of pensions and our alleged lack of concern for senior citizens. He forgets that the first piece of legislation we brought in was the extension of the spousal allowance. An early piece of legislation, I do not know whether it was the second, third or fifth, was to increase veteran's pensions to reflect the fact we owe so much to that group of Canadians for what they have done.
The Hon. Member talks about this 55 year old working person reaching retirement age and finding his or her pension will be somewhat less than it might otherwise have been. However, he forgets to acknowledge the very important changes we made to the pension system so that this 50 year old worker will be in a better position to look after himself when he reaches retirement age. Surely the NDP would agree with me that in the best of all worlds each of us would have the means to look after ourselves. Well, we have made important changes in this Budget so as to make that possible for more Canadians. I hope he will have the good grace to acknowledge that and express his appreciation for those particular changes.
He also made the statement that the capital gains tax changes benefit only a small percentage of the population. Perhaps he was not in the House when I pointed out that, based on data from Revenue Canada-


Selective data.
The Budget-Mr. Andre


-something over one million Canadians have been taxed on capital gains. The vast majority of those people earn less than $40,000 a year. The Hon. Member sitting next to the Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre (Mr. Cassidy)-


Prince Albert.


Sorry, Stan. The Hon. Member for Prince Albert (Mr. Hovdebo) is heckling a little bit, but I have not heard him stand up and say he is opposed to the capital gains exemption for farmers. If it applies to farmers, ought it not apply to small businessmen? If it applies to small businessmen, have we not, in essence, said that in the Budget? How can they, in all good conscience, heckle and complain and say this measure is for the rich but, on the other hand, want it for the farmers? They want it for some small businessmen but apparently not for corporations because corporations are bad. But they do not want to talk about that; they want to talk about the rich who are going to benefit. Yes, some rich people may benefit, but they are a very small chunk. The real beneficiaries of this measure are people who are going to create jobs.


Order, please. Questions and
comments?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister wound up his speech in a very strong fashion, but a strong pair of lungs is no substitute for logic.


Then sit down.


The Minister stated that he had consulted with more groups than any other Government in Canadian history. But there are many groups out there today who are saying: You may have consulted, but you certainly did not listen. The Minister started his speech by saying: "They want us to spend, spend, spend". But we are not asking the Government to spend, spend, spend. All we are asking Members opposite to do is to keep their election promises. Is the Minister telling us that when he went around this country talking about a 5 per cent or 6 per cent real increase in defence spending, he did not know it was going to cost money? Today we have an increase of 2.1 per cent in real defence spending, and yet this Government is accusing the previous Government of not doing enough for defence. All the Minister has to do is to look at the record over the past few years and the billions of dollars spent to upgrade the Canadian Armed Forces.


After you let them go down the tubes.


Is the Minister saying that he cannot spend today? I say that if he did, he would be keeping his election promises. Is the Government going to keep those election promises? Obviously not.
I am glad that the Hon. Minister of Employment and Immigration (Miss MacDonald) is in the House because she assured me that she was going to be very sensitive to the wishes of members of the Armed Forces regarding severance pay and unemployment insurance. She said that the early retirement pensions of members of the Armed Forces and

June 3, 1985
The Budget-Mr. Murphy
severance pay of public servants and people in industry would not be deducted from their claims for unemployment insurance when they became unemployed. But we have not heard any firm statement from her as yet. Where is the commitment?
Without mentioning the LLAD program which was in the making when his Government took over, or the North Warning System which was 90 per cent completed before his Government took over, I want to ask the Minister of Supply and Services (Mr. Andre) if his Government is going to keep those promises, or is it going to say that it cannot keep them because, if it does, it will be spending money? Is he really telling us that they made those promises last summer without thinking it was going to cost them any money? Is that really what he is telling this House? Is this Government going to keep its firm commitment to the members of the Armed Forces?


I ask the Minister for a short answer, please.


I will be very brief, Mr. Speaker. The Liberal Party defence critic talked about the North Warning System being 90 per cent completed before this Government took office. I wish he would communicate that information to the Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry (Mr. Axworthy) who keeps insisting this is some sort of sneaky plot on our part to bring in SDI and star wars. As defence critic he has the responsibility of bringing the knowledge level of the Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry to the point where he can start asking intelligent questions in the House.
Yes, we are committed to increasing Canada's defences. If you look at the Budget and the fiscal plan as well as at the projections, you will see that this is very clearly indicated because after 15 years of rule by the Trudeau Government, as the Hon. Member well knows, we are only ahead of Luxembourg in our ability to defend ourselves.


It was 4.1 per cent last year. Canada was one of three countries-


That has to be remedied, and it is going to take us more than nine months to undo 20 years of misrule by the Liberal Party.


Same old song.


Mr. Speaker, I am going to take up the Minister's challenge. He asked what our basis was for saying that the Government is not keeping its promises. I want to go through the PC campaign handbook which was used last year in talking to Canadians. It was authorized by the PC Canada Fund, which was the registered agent for the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada. This booklet was sent to all the candidates, and all those PC Members who are here in this House now used it when they were talking to Canadians. It contains the promises that they made to Canadians.


It contains the solutions to problems.


I agree that a lot of the things said in this campaign handbook were solutions to problems. The problem that we have now is that they did not keep their promises to Canadians. What they said to Canadians is not what is found in the budget papers. When the Conservatives came to power they followed the old Liberal tradition of not keeping promises.
On page 83 of their campaign document they said, "We will establish an agri-bond program to provide loans at reduced rates to producers". It goes on to say that funds invested in agri-bonds can then be lent to farmers by the Farm Credit Corporation at interest rates below prevailing bank rates.


The rates are lower now.


The Deputy Whip, who never seems to get up and speak intelligently, seems always to yap from her chair. If she wants to enter debate, she can do that.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. This is the second time that the Member refers to the fact that I am commenting, as he did all through the Minister's speech. He refers to my comments as "yapping". I presume he refers to his as intelligent conversation.


Unfortunately, that is not a point of order. The Hon. Member for Churchill (Mr. Murphy) has the floor.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. She may yap if she wishes to. The issue is that the Government did not keep its promise to the farmers of the country. As a result of that, they are still paying the prevailing bank interest rates. One of the main problems which farmers in the country face at the present time is the amount of debt that they are carrying on their businesses, debt which has increased rather than decreased since the Government has been in power.
Many of the government Members who have participated in this debate have spoken about the fact that the Government kept its promise on capital gains. However, what the Government actually said was that it would abolish "the imposition of capital gains tax on the sale of farm property for continued agricultural purposes". That happens to have been the policy of my Party for many years. When the Government created this new tax loophole for the rich of the country, farmers were included, but there was no attempt to ensure that the land would be used for continued agricultural purposes. This means that we will continue to lose valuable agricultural land which is needed to feed our people and the hungry of the world. Now land will go to the highest bidder. With the removal of taxation on capital gains, more and more farmers are likely to be forced into the position of having to sell their land to those who will no longer be involved in agriculture.
The Government broke its promises made to Canadians in other areas as well. With regard to the CBC, the Government
June 3, 1985

said that it believed in the need "for the CBC to serve special interests in our society". As a result of the cut-backs in the CBC, Our Native Land, the only program provided to the native people of our country as a special need, is being cut. That is another broken promise.
With regard to excise tax on alcohol and tobacco, the Government said in its document that the present policy of the Liberals has had a "negative impact on both the tobacco and tourist industries". The Conservative Government increased the very taxes which it had criticized only a year ago. The Conservatives said that they could "reduce the deficit without increasing taxes or reducing the level of social services". That promise is obviously not going to be kept. The net effect of the Budget has been to increase the cost of living to an average family by $500 a year in increased taxes on top of the $500 a year in taxes and loss of services which resulted from the November 8 economic statement.
With regard to oil and gas, the Progressive Conservatives said that the "tax system must be adjusted to help lower the price of consumer oil and gas products". They broke that promise to Canadians as well. They have made promises to the women of the country. They talked about improving "federal housing, employment, and public education programs to assist victims of family violence". One of the results of funding cut-backs will be that there will no longer be transition houses for victims of family violence.
1 can go on and on, Mr. Speaker, and 1 will because it is very important that Canadians realize that when the Conservatives were campaigning last year, they were not telling the truth. They had no intention of keeping the promises they made. This Budget has proven that Conservatives do not keep their promises.
With regard to post-secondary education under Established Program Financing, the Conservatives said that they would "return to the 1977 funding formula". That formula provided more money for post-secondary education and medicare than did the 1982 formula which was then in place. Through the Budget, the Government is going to reduce by $2 million by 1990 the amount of transfer payments for post-secondary education, medicare, and the provision of a basic level of services to Canadians. Since that reduction will be phased in over the next year it will obviously mean less money for post-secondary education. That is again a complete contradiction of what they promised during the campaign.
The Conservatives also promised to ensure that "Canada had a sufficient supply of tradesmen to meet our needs". In the Budget they cut $78 million from the critical trades program, with no new program yet in place. Our nation is suffering from a lack of qualified tradespeople. Over the years we have had to import such people. We have a large number of unemployed youth who would love the opportunity to take the necessary training, and yet the Government cuts the existing program.
In relation to the disabled, the Conservatives said that they would assist "Canadians who, due to age, disability, or lack of employment opportunity are unable to provide for their own needs". They also talked about affirmative action. Yet in the
The Budget-Mr. Murphy
Budget they announced that they will be cutting back the Public Service by 15,000 positions over the next few years. It means that women, native people, and handicapped people who are not in the Public Service at the present time will have very little opportunity of ever moving into that system.
I received a letter from one of my constituents who has already suffered because of the cut-backs introduced by the Government. Let me read from part of the letter:
I am a handicapped person who is a single parent with a ten year old child. I was employed with the Canada Employment Centre in a term position.
I just cannot understand why a G