The House resumed from Monday, April 29, consideration of Bill C-15, an Act respecting investment in Canada, as reported (with amendments) from the Standing Committee on Regional Development; and Motions Nos. 4, 6, 7 and 9 (Mr. Axworthy), No. 10 (Mr. Langdon), No. 11 (Mr. Axworthy), Nos. 14 and 15 (Mr. Langdon), No. 16 (Mr. Axworthy) and Nos. 17 and 18 (Mr. Langdon) (p. 4183).
Before proceeding, I have some comments to make with regard to the Bill. I am waiting for distribution to the House Leaders and those involved. I am ready to rule on the amendments, but as Hon. Members can imagine, the ruling is almost as long as the original document. If it is all right with the House, I think it would be courteous if I waited two seconds while the pages distributed copies to the House officers.
Before proceeding, I am now in a position to rule on those motions about which the Chair expressed reservations on Tuesday, April 23.
The procedural contributions made by Hon. Members on Thursday last were of great assistance to the Chair in preparing this ruling.
1.	The Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry (Mr. Axworthy) did not argue the admissibility of Motion No. 3 but offered new wording in an attempt to make it procedurally acceptable. On the surface, the suggested amendment by the Hon. Member appears to render the motion less argumentative. However, the Chair is still faced with the fact that the motion seeks to alter the purpose of the Bill by focusing the thrust of attention on past foreign investment. This was never contemplated in the Bill. I must agree with the remarks of the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Hnatyshyn) and rule that the motion goes beyond the principle of the Bill as agreed to at second reading. In this regard, I refer Hon. Members to Beauchesne's Fifth Edition, Citation 773(5).
2.	On Motion No. 5, the Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor (Mr. Langdon) went to great lengths in analyzing the principle of the Bill and focused his remarks on what he considers to be
the discriminatory aspects reflected in the purpose clause and in subsequent details of the Bill. I thank the Hon. Member for his valuable contribution in this respect as it has facilitated the Chair's understanding of this piece of complex legislation.
In that the purpose clause differentiates between Canadian and non-Canadian investors and insofar as significant investments in Canada by non-Canadians are reviewable in order to ensure such benefit to Canada, then the Hon. Member is correct, that there is "discrimination". However, that discrimination is limited in its scope. These limitations are defined in subsequent clauses of the Bill.
The House is still faced with the fact that Motion No. 5 would bring in a discriminatory element by limiting the Minister's assistance to Canadian investors only. Such a restriction towards non-Canadians goes beyond the limited form of discrimination specified in the Bill. Thus the Chair has no alternative but to rule Motion No. 5 out of order.
3.	In Motion No. 13, the Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor seeks to introduce new conditions of conduct for Canadian businesses owned and controlled by non-Canadians. This is clearly discriminatory towards non-Canadians and again contradicts the purpose of the Bill as agreed to at second reading. It further proposes new provisions to be included in the Bill and thus goes beyond its scope. I must therefore rule that this motion cannot be proposed to the House.
4.	The Chair had not seen any problem with Motion No. 14 and had grouped it for debate with other motions. The Hon. the President of the Privy Council argued, however, on Thursday last, that the motion was out of order on the grounds that it went beyond the scope of the Bill, and was irrelevant and redundant, in that it gave to the Minister the exercise of powers which would infringe upon provincial labour jurisdiction. Upon reflection, after listening to the arguments of the Minister, I will in no way rule as to whether or not the motion would infringe upon provincial jurisdiction, as that is a legal question and not one of procedure. However, the motion is irrelevant to the clause it attempts to amend. As stated in Citation 773(1) of Beauchesne's Fifth Edition:
An amendment is out of order if it is irrelevant to the Bill-
For this reason, I have no alternative but to rule that Motion No. 14 is out of order.
5.	As the Chair indicated in its preliminary statement on Tuesday last, Motion No. 21 goes against the principle of the Bill and is therefore out of order.
MO)
6.	With reference to Motion No. 22, I indicated this motion infringed on the financial initiative of the Crown. The Hon.

April 30, 1985
Investment Canada Act
Member for Essex-Windsor proposes in his motion that a board of directors be established, including a full-time president, and that the specific allocation of money for the president would be divided among the part-time directors and the president, thus leading to no extra charge on the Treasury. I must congratulate the Hon. Member on such an original approach. That a president would be willing to share his salary with his board of directors, thereby leading to no charge on the Consolidated Revenue Fund, is quite novel. However, the Bill does not provide for the establishment of any board of directors. The Chair must rule that Motion No. 22 infringes on the financial initiative of the Crown. In this connection, I refer Hon. Members to Beauchesne's Fifth Edition, Citation 540.
7.	Motion No. 26, as I have already indicated, adds a new exemption to the particular clause it seeks to amend. The Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry argued that the principle of recognizing certain exemptions has already been accepted in the Bill and this motion merely offers a further exemption. That may well be so; however, I cannot ignore the fact that the motion, while adding this exemption, discriminates against non-Canadians. As I indicated earlier in this ruling, such discrimination was not envisaged in the Bill when it was given second reading. Consequently, I must rule that this motion goes beyond the principle of the Bill and is therefore out of order.
8.	Motions Nos. 28 and 29 clearly go beyond the principle of the Bill and, in one case, infringe upon the financial initiative of the Crown. They are out of order.
9.	The Chair had indicated that Motion No. 33 sought to establish a committee not contemplated in the Bill, was a new proposition and went beyond the four corners of the Bill. As well, Motions Nos. 54, 62, 65, 66, 71, 73, 92 and 93 were consequential on this motion. The Hon. President of the Privy Council, in his remarks, thought it highly questionable that a Cabinet committee could be created by an Act of Parliament, a doubt which also exists in my mind. However, I will not comment further on this. The Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry pointed out that the Minister in committee had indicated that he intended to consult with colleagues in Cabinet on matters pertaining to this legislation. While the Hon. Member's proposal to formalize such consultation may be laudable, the creation of such a committee was not contemplated in the Bill. Therefore, it is the opinion of the Chair that Motion No. 33 goes beyond the principle of the Bill as agreed to at second reading. The motion also offers a new proposition and should not be put to the House. Similarly, Motions Nos. 54, 62, 65, 66, 71, 73, 92 and 93 also will not be proposed.
10.	With respect to Motion No. 38A, the Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor stated that this motion should not have been grouped with Motions Nos. 34, 35, 36 and 38. After taking a closer look, the Chair agrees with the Hon. Member and Motion No. 38A will be proposed to the House separately and, if necessary, voted on separately.
11.	Motion No. 37 raises once again the matter of discrimination against non-Canadians and goes against the purpose of the Bill. Based on my earlier remarks when dealing with
Motion No. 3, concerning the nature of discrimination, I must disagree with the arguments put forward by the Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor. I therefore rule Motion No. 37 out of order. These remarks apply to Motion No. 39, which is also out of order.
12.	As I indicated in my preliminary statement on Tuesday of last week, Motion No. 40 contains a new proposal not contemplated in the Bill and is therefore out of order.
13.	With regard to Motions Nos. 42 to 49 inclusive, I must, respectfully and with regret, inform the Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry and the Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor that they were not successful in persuading the Chair that these motions are procedurally acceptable. These motions are all similar efforts to introduce into the Bill types of investments that would require review which were not foreseen in the Bill as adopted by the House at second reading. Therefore, these motions will not be proposed to the House. As Motion No. 51 is consequential on these motions, it falls into the same category.
14.	The Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor argued that Motions Nos. 55 to 61 attempt to clarify and make more specific the factors set out in Clause 20 of the Bill. The Chair agrees with the arguments put forward by the Hon. Member. In attempting to do so, however, the Chair must point out to the Hon. Member that the motions introduce new proposals into the Bill, proposals which are outside the scope of the Clause. While I fully understand the Hon. Member's intention, the Chair is bound by the procedural rules and precedents, as stated in May's Twentieth Edition at page 555:
An amendment is out of order if it is .. . beyond the scope of the clause under consideration-
Therefore, I have no alternative but to rule Motions No. 55 to 61 out of order.
15.	In relation to Motion No. 64, 1 must disagree with the remarks of the Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry. This motion seeks to introduce into the Bill indirectly what cannot be done directly, namely, a definition of the term "net benefit". Further, it goes beyond the purpose and scope of the Bill. With regret, this motion cannot be proposed to the House.
16.	The Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry indicated that Motions Nos. 70 and 72 have different objectives and should be voted on separately. I agree with the Hon. Member, therefore, Motions Nos. 70 and 72 will be voted on separately, but shall remain grouped with Motion No. 68 for the purposes of debate.
17.	In my statement to the House on Tuesday last, I had indicated some doubt in the mind of the Chair in relation to Motions Nos. 78 and 79 and had asked the Hon. Member to explain their purpose. After taking his remarks into consideration, the Chair is of the opinion that these motions, which seek to reduce the necessary minimum of one-third voting shares to 5 per cent or less in order to obtain control of a corporation, are simply modifying the conditions of acquisition of control.
April 30, 1985

The Hon. President of the Privy Council argued that to reduce the level to 5 per cent expanded the jurisdiction of the Agency. In the opinion of the Chair the Agency, as defined in the Bill, already has the authority to review acquisition of control. Therefore, these motions are in order and will be proposed to the House together for debate and vote on Motion No. 78 will dispose of Motion No. 79.
18.	The Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor argued quite eloquently in favour of Motion No. 80 and has convinced the Chair to allow this motion to be proposed to the House. Motion No. 80 will be debated and voted on separately.
19.	Motion No. 82 gives to a committee of the House the power to approve regulations. This clearly was not contemplated in the Bill which gives such power to the Governor-in-Council. Therefore, this motion is out of order.
20.	Motion No. 83, as indicated by the Chair on Tuesday last, goes beyond the scope of the clause it is attempting to amend and is therefore out of order. As Motion No. 84 is consequential on this motion, it also is out of order.
21.	The Hon. Member for Essex-Windsor asked the Chair to consider further whether Motions Nos. 85 to 88 were consequential to Motions Nos. 83 to 84. Upon reflection, Motions Nos. 86, 87 and 88 are consequential on Motion No. 83 and cannot be put to the House. As Motion No. 85 deals with the disclosure of information in connection with legal proceedings, its subject matter allows the motion to stand by itself. It is my intention to put the motion to the House separately and have it voted on separately.
22.	In relation to Motions Nos. 90 and 91, I regret that the Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Fort Garry has not convinced the Chair to change its first impression of these two motions. As I previously stated, Motion No. 91 infringes on the financial initiative of the Crown and is therefore out of order. As Motion No. 90 is consequential on this motion, it is also out of order.
23.	Finally, for the reasons given by the Chair in its preliminary statement, Motion No. 94 is out of order and will not be proposed to the House.
This concludes the remarks I have to make in relation to the procedural acceptability of certain motions. For the benefit of Hon. Members, I will enumerate those motions ruled out of order. They are Motions Nos. 3, 5, 13, 14, 21, 22, 26, 28, 29, 33, 37, 39, 40, 42 to 49 inclusive, 51, 54 to 62 inclusive, 64 to 66 inclusive, 71, 73, 82 to 84 inclusive, 86 to 88 inclusive and 90 to 94 inclusive.
I must apologize to the House for the length of this ruling, but I am sure Hon. Members will understand that, with the number of motions proposed, the complexity of the legislation and the high calibre of the procedural arguments made, the Chair was obligated to weigh carefully and to answer fully the procedural concerns of Hon. Members.
Debate will now continue on the group of motions now before the House, with the exception of Motion No. 14 as ruled on previously by the Chair.
Investment Canada Act


Mr. Speaker, I never cease to be amazed at your capacity to make these magnificent rulings. It is the capacity to read them, I suppose, which amazes me more than the making of them. Maybe some day we will be in the position in which we will not have to do this.
First, on behalf of my colleague, I want to thank you, Mr. Speaker, for the kind words which you expressed during your ruling. I am not really talking about that, however, but with regard to the presentations of the arguments which I think everyone in the House felt were extremely well done by all Hon. Members who made representations during the submissions which were made to your preliminary ruling.
Let me talk for two or three moments about the reasons we are attempting to make these subsequent changes to the legislation. The experience we have had over the years with respect to the degree of power which the Minister has is an experience which has led most of us to come to the conclusion that many of the areas we would define on an ongoing basis as "problem areas" seem to be outside the scope of the Minister to resolve. I have on numerous occasions, as have other Hon. Members of the House, come across situations where companies operating in Canada, or seeking to operate in Canada, were prepared to make substantial commitment on paper guaranteeing such things as long-term employment, investment in areas of research and development, and assuring the Government through FIRA-and I now imagine through this legislation-that their intentions were of the highest order and that they were committed to Canada, as we would expect them to be.
Unfortunately-and I want to stress that word-the experience in many instances has not been in keeping with the commitment. All too frequently we have found that after permission was given to either purchase an existing operation or to establish a new operation in Canada, the performance level, when measured against the commitment made, fell substantially short of realizing the goals. So what we are asking is that the powers of the Minister be more clearly defined and that the Minister in fact have the necessary power to deal with some of the problems which, quite frankly, not only did exist in the last few years but continue to exist. We are dealing with basically the same people and with the same corporate entities, in most instances, and if they were not prepared to live up to their commitments voluntarily in the past, then one would have reason to doubt that their attitudes would have now changed significantly. And it would not be unreasonable to think that they would not be prepared to live up to their commitments in the future.
We would very much like to have the powers of the Minister more clearly understood when these circumstances arise. One example which I raised yesterday in Question Period is the take-over of Canadian Porcelain Limited by, I believe, Lapp Industries from New York State. That is an example of a situation which cries out for investigation. It is not unique. It is not the first time it has happened. But the fact that it has

April 30, 1985
Investment Canada Act
happened again demands that we make some provision in the law to permit the Minister to step in and terminate, if need be, a proposal such as the one we now see before the receiver on behalf of the Royal Bank which is handling the problems of Canadian Porcelain.
Just so Hon. Members understand the dilemma which confronts me and the workers at Canadian Porcelain, Canadian Porcelain is in receivership not totally but primarily because of the actions of a number of foreign-based companies, including Lapp Industries which dumped its product into the Canadian market and, therefore, undermined the viability of this Canadian company which had been in existence for 80 years or more. Canadian Porcelain had been producing insulators for electrical use of a quality which had met the demands of the market-place throughout that entire period, but Lapp Industries, together with others, sold into the Canadian market at below their own cost price. It was found by a tribunal to have dumped. The effect of that action by that company and others was to undermine the viability of Canadian Porcelain and therefore make it impossible for Canadian Porcelain to maintain its position in the market-place. The ultimate result was that the company went into receivership.
Subsequently the employees, 85 of them or thereabouts, decided that this was a good plant with a future potential and they got together with a number of community and church groups in Hamilton. They had the support of the Labour Council, City Council and I think of every Member of Parliament from the area in seeking out another way to continue to operate the plant located in the west end of Hamilton. After undertaking a viability study, they were able to convince the credit union and CUNA that this would be a useful thing for them to become involved in.
They began a process of providing the basic funding for the purchase of the assets which would have permitted the plant to continue to operate. About a week or 10 days ago they made an offer of $1.1 million to the receiver, Peat Marwick. What they were not told when their offer was refused was that there was another offer to be considered. They asked Peat Marwick to give them an idea of what they needed in the way of financing in order to get acceptance of their proposal. They were led to believe that an offer in the neighbourhood of $1.3 million would be satisfactory. They went back to their financial principals and renegotiated and got agreement for $1.3 million. They took that to their co-operative board made up of employees and some others, and got approval for an offer of $1.3 million on Friday last. They then instructed the offer to be drawn up for presentation on Monday last to the receiver in Toronto. But in the meantime the receiver sold the company. Although I am not absolutely clear on how much, we are told that the receiver sold it for an amount in the neighbourhood of $1.25 million, and they sold it to LAPP Industries. Without having the decency to discuss the potential sale with those who were working in the plant, those who would put together the co-operative, without even giving them a chance to enter another offer, the receiver sold the plant to the very company
which had been a part of the group which had undermined the operation in the first place.
It strikes me, Mr. Speaker, that there is something dreadfully wrong with that. There is something dreadfully wrong with a situation which will permit a foreign company to undermine its Canadian competitor, force it into receivership and then purchase it from the receiver to the detriment of the workers and in spite of the fact that there was an offer of something close to equal value already on the table from a group of Canadians. I think that is why we have to extend the powers of the Minister.
As you know, I have asked the Minister to step in now and stop it but I know he is going to tell me that he does not have the power. Well, I am going to tell him that we will give him the power. Bring in an amendment to any piece of legislation and we will give him the power to stop what is going on in this case. But more importantly, we will give him the power to deal with these kinds of situations as and when they arise in the future. That is what we are talking about. That is protecting Canada. That is giving Canadians a chance. That is ensuring that they are not undermined by the might and financial strength of their competitors elsewhere. That ensures that we do not see a further deterioration of Canada's position with regard to domestic involvement in our economy as opposed to foreign investment and involvement in our economy. I think it is absolutely and vitally important that amendments such as those which are before us now become part of this particular piece of legislation.
[DOT] (M30)


Mr. Speaker, I rise with a certain apprehension, having to follow the eloquent words of my colleague. I would like to speak in support of the group of amendments that have been moved on this particular aspect of the Bill. I will focus my comments on the impact which the main Bill will have if the amendments are not accepted. Before I do that, I would like to thank my colleague, the Hon. Member for Laval-des-Rapides (Mr. Garneau), for giving up his position on the schedule to allow me to speak so that I can return to committee.
In the last six months since I became a member of the House I have heard members of the Government talk about investment and about how they perceive the world. The Minister of State for Small Businesses (Mr. Bissonnette) is here today. I urge him to consider these words. I am getting the impression that the Government feels that the only way to create jobs and improve our economy is to throw money at it. In the past we in the New Democratic Party have been accused of wanting to throw taxpayers' money at things to make them go away. That label was also applied to the Liberal Government in years past. Through this Bill all the Government wants to do is bring money in from outside our boundaries to solve everything. They believe that will end all of our economic woes.
In committee as well I am hearing that there is a need to bring in entrepreneurs. However, the definition of entre-
April 30, 1985

preneurs is those with bucks, not necessarily those with ideas. In committee we have heard about the reality of Canada. I would like to quote from a presentation of an old seatmate of mine. Dr. Stuart Smith, the head of the Science Council of Canada. He stated:
The missing link is that as individual Canadians and as Canadian institutions we have developed habits of investment which are not appropriate to the rapidly changing international picture. We have developed, over the years, a reliance upon our resource sector to carry us through and a feeling that we could basically ignore the export markets for knowledge-intensive goods, high value-added goods. We have left those either to foreign companies who have not entered the export market because they basically did that from their home enterprise, or we have just ignored them completely and continued to produce very standard products in textiles, furniture and gloves. Generally speaking, we have not been in precision machinery or advanced robotics or any of these things. Now if you say, does that mean we have enough Canadian capital? Well, yes and no; yes, we have enough Canadian savings, but it is not being turned into capital in the sense that it is capital in a given industry.
Investment Canada is a fine name for this Bill. We should be using this Bill as a tool to convince Canadians to invest their savings in new growth industries such as software, electronics and robotics. We should not be spending our time trying to drag in money from outside our borders. Investment Canada should be required to study all proposals to sell existing Canadian companies to foreigners and then to go on a search for capital.
When a company wants to hire someone from outside our borders, they are first required to do a job search. They must go through Canada Employment and Immigration and search from sea to sea to discover if there is a Canadian who is qualified to do that job. In the majority of cases they find a Canadian who is qualified and prepared to relocate for the purpose of achieving gainful employment.
I suggest that Investment Canada should do the same thing. Canadian companies which wish to obtain foreign capital should be required to do a capital search from sea to sea to discover if there is money which is currently sitting in a bank account that could be better used in the production of new wealth and new jobs. That is the approach which the Government should be taking.
There will be times when it will be necessary to bring money in from beyond our borders. We must do that in a very controlled way. We must ensure that that capital is used for the benefit of Canadians. It does not do our society any good when someone buys a plant, perhaps using our money to finance it, and does not create any new wealth or new jobs. Rather, they set the plant up for the day when the parent company, in the time of recession, pulls back its horns and circles the wagons, so to speak. The plant in Canada is the first victim. We saw very clear examples of that in the mid to late 1970s throughout this land, particularly in Ontario. This Bill is trying to turn the clock back instead of trying to develop a mechanism that will allow Canadians to invest in Canada to bring about growth and development of new jobs and new wealth.
Another concern which is addressed by one of the amendments is that all Canadian businesses which are owned and controlled by non-Canadians must respect the rights of the
Investment Canada Act
workers for collective bargaining. In the pulp and paper industry in Canada we are now facing very harsh competition from the southern United States. In those southern United States they have so-called "right to work" laws which basically means the right to have an unorganized, non-union facility which pays bottom of the barrel dollars. We have such companies investing in the pulp and paper industry in northwestern Ontario and their record is very dismal. If these companies are going to invest in Canada they must work by our rules. They must follow the accepted approach to worker-owner operations that we have built up over the years in Canada. Unless we put those rules in place, not only will we allow non-Canadians to buy us out, but they will severely lower our standards of living and the rights of workers on the job.
1 believe the amendments before us are extremely important because they attempt to make a bad Bill slightly better. Although we would like to see this Bill withdrawn completely, we urge the Government to consider these motions seriously and incorporate them into the Bill.


Mr. Speaker, we are now in the last stages of the debate on Bill C-15, the legislation being proposed to replace the former Foreign Investment Review Act. Throughout the debate on this Bill, at the second reading stage and in committee, we have been urging the Government to reconsider its approach to establishing a form of control over foreign investment in Canada.
Despite their efforts both at the second reading stage and in committee, up to now the Official Opposition and the opposition represented by the New Democratic Party have been unable to persuade the Government to modify its general approach.
Now, at the report stage, we have a chance to modify the content of certain clauses of the Bill. Among the proposals that were made, Mr. Speaker, I shall, if I may, consider three of the motions, namely, Motions Nos. 4, 6 and 16. I intend to deal simultaneously with Motions 4 and 16 which concern the powers granted the Minister under the proposed legislation.
The attitude taken by the Government, and especially by the Minister responsible for Regional Industrial Expansion (Mr. Stevens) is, I think, an extremely arrogant one. The Minister is empire building. He wants to keep the decision-making power to himself. However, we believe, and that is the objective of Motion No. 4, that a distinction must be made between setting policy and policy implementation.
If Bill C-15 . . . Government Members will realize later on, when they are facing specific problems related to take-overs in their own ridings, they will see how what I am going to say will affect them and maybe, in a couple of years, they will say: Maybe we should have listened a bit more: it might have been a good idea.

April 30, 1985
Investment Canada Act


Yes, when Sinclair Stevens says no!


In fact, there is more to it than that, because in the Bill, in Part VI, the Government decided to create an agency. Why create an agency? They could have simply-and actually that would have made perfect sense, considering the content of Clause 4-they could have simply entrusted the administration of this legislation, as is customary in other cases, to regular public servants, to an assistant deputy minister or the department's administrative services. However, they decided to establish an agency. The only reason I can see is in order to impose a certain degree of objectivity on the administration of this Act, and to maintain a certain distance between political decisions and administrative decisions. Otherwise, they would not have bothered establishing the agency. I do not see why the present agency is being set up under the conditions set forth in the proposed legislation. If we look at the CRTC, for instance, which operates more or less like other government agencies, the Government, having received a mandate from the general public, sets policy but entrusts policy administration to a group of professionals who implement the policy.
If the Government is establishing this agency, I wonder why, in Clause 4, the minister is not only responsible for setting policy but also for managing and administering the Act. I think this is an abuse of power which is going to create problems, not just for the businessmen who want to buy or sell companies, but for the Minister and the Government, and there will probably be situations that are far more serious than the Government has foreseen, and the result will also be that most decisions on foreign take-overs will become political decisions.
We all know it is not particularly pleasant to have to consider the political side of a case that should be analyzed only on the basis of content and merit. That is why we suggested that Clauses 4 be amended to separate the functions that are really the Government's, that are really the Minister's, functions whose purpose is to establish the policy for the agency created under Clause 6, I believe, of the Bill before the House, from the policies that form the framework for the agency's decision-making role. We therefore propose, in Motion No. 4, that these two be separated.
Mr. Speaker, I must stress that unless the administrative function is kept separate from the political function, there will be abuse of power, and this will put the Minister and the Government in some very difficult situations. I maintain that the agency, by its very existence, becomes a kind of administrative tribunal. Has there ever been an administrative tribunal that had to examine a case, render a decision and subsequently, submit a decision, that could be quasi-judicial, to a minister for approval? This is tantamount to putting political, administrative and quasi-judicial functions all in the same bag, and I submit, Mr. Speaker, with due respect, that this amendment should be given serious consideration.
If the Government is not prepared to separate setting policy from administering such policy, if it refuses to realize the risks it is taking in so doing, at least it should accept our motion concerning the setting up of a departmental committee so that one minister will not have sole responsibility for making such an important decision, otherwise we will get situations-


Like Domtar.


Like Domtar, for instance, where we were told by the Minister's colleagues-that is what the papers told us, and the Minister of Public Works said so publicly-that it was a departmental decision, that he knew nothing about it, and we all know the uproar that caused. They finally found a solution to the problem: Quebec money is going to pay for the Domtar project, since the funds for Domtar were funds already allocated under the regional development agreement and would normally have been used for other purposes. Here they tried to get around the problem and they more or less wanted to reverse a decision made by the Minister. However, the proposed legislation will make it possible for one person, and today that is the Minister we know, tomorrow it may be somebody else, but the fact remains that that person will have the power to make decisions involving thousands and millions of dollars and affecting hundreds of employees. One single person will, as it were, have the right to decide in matters of life or death. That is why I submit that if the Government is not prepared to accept the amendment proposed in Motion No. 4, it should at least consider the proposal contained in Motion No. 16, which is aimed at setting up a departmental committee to review departmental decisions and consider certain regional aspects. I could take Domtar as an example or the Pecheries Cartier, for instance, and there are many other examples and other industries that have a considerable impact on employment and on the lives of hundreds of Canadian workers. By including the possibility of appealing either to the entire Cabinet or at least to a Cabinet committee, I think this would have a balancing effect on these important decisions. I would like to get back to the point I stressed previously: I think the Progressive Conservative Members, the backbenchers, may be very pleased to find-


Even some Ministers may be.


Perhaps some Ministers as well, who are not aware of decisions when they are made at the departmental level only, and it would give them a chance to ask questions and respond to requests from their ridings or regions.
Mr. Speaker, my time is about to expire. How much time do I have left?


Less than a minute.


Proceed!
April 30, 1985


Less than a minute! The last amendment 1 wanted to discuss concerns the possibility of giving the agency the authority to seek out actively Canadian buyers across the country. 1 think this is a suggestion that could appropriately be included in the legislation, because if an offer is made for a company . . . We know that often, businessmen whose children are not interested in taking over the business and who want to dispose of their investment when they reach retirement age, often have to and would like to sell, and if the agency were empowered to help the owner of a company to sell to Canadians rather than to non-Canadians, I think it would be an important adjunct to the legislation. 1 hope that this House and especially Members on the Government side will at least want to consider these very serious proposals.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to have an opportunity to say a few words on the Investment Canada Bill. It is a very fundamental piece of legislation. It really separates the Government's view as to how we should proceed in terms of investment from the United States and from other countries from the view of the Official Opposition.
Motion No. 4 proposes that the Minister be responsible for the administration of the Act and the management and direction of the agency established by Section 6. Our position is that the public servants who will be working in Investment Canada should receive their policy direction from the Minister and from Cabinet. Of course, under this Bill the Minister will have the power to approve applications which exceed the limit of $5 million. Fundamentally we disagree with that, in that there will be hundreds of applications under that limit. This could have an adverse effect upon small companies. A foreign investor could come into the country, buy out a small compan-ny and shut down the manufacturing part of the plant. Hopefully the company would at least retain the Canadian sales force, but in some cases such companies may lay off the sales force and run the entire operation from the United States. We think that Canadians will lose control if the limit is raised to $5 million.
At one time the City of Sault Ste. Marie had three independent dairies. Now it is controlled by Beatrice Foods, a large multinational company. That is happening all over the country. It is not that all foreign investment is bad. It certainly is not, and we want to encourage it. Large companies from the United States could come in here, not necessarily with adverse or negative thoughts about Canadian employment. In many cases that does not even occur to them. Companies are in business to make a profit. No one would deny them that. To some extent FIRA was a bargaining tool; so long as a company did not indicate that it would shut down its manufacturing operations in Canada, move all its research and development to the United States and not give Canada a portion of international markets, its application would probably be approved. Sometimes, if the companies were dishonest enough, these things occurred.
Investment Canada Act
When responsible companies appear before a government agency for approval or review, it should be pointed out to them that we are a country with 1.5 million unemployed, that we would like to see their manufacturing plants here, that we would like to see them try to shoot for a share of the international market, that we would like to see them committed to the long-term expansion and development of manufacturing facilities and plants, and that we would like to see a good portion of the research and development being carried out in Canada. In that event most companies would say that it is not unreasonable for Canadians to make those requests, in that we have higher unemployment than has the United States and we have smaller markets and want to see a portion of them retained.
The Minister has shown that his concern is just how many bucks are involved, regardless of from where they come or what the long-term future will be. I do not think we could give all that power to a worse Minister. He will sit in his ivory tower on the thirty-third floor of Place de Ville and make unilateral decisions. Cabinet Ministers from P.E.I., British Columbia and Quebec, just to name a few, will not have a say because the Minister will unilaterally make decisions.
Last week I heard an interview on the CBC concerning large companies and reverse take-overs which will take place when there is no FIRA to review them. The Minister being able to make unilateral decisions-and if an application is below the $5 million limit, there will be no review at all-is not good for the country.
The Tories are rather embarrassed about the tremendous increase in Canadian ownership of the petroleum industry during the first three or four years of the National Energy Program. Canadian ownership has increased dramatically, from some 28 per cent to around 40 per cent. If this Bill ultimately passes, everything is abandoned and the percentage of Canadian ownership starts to slide, it will be interesting to see just how proud the Tories will be of that loss of Canadian ownership for which we fought very hard during the 1970s. Instead of dividends being distributed to Canadian owners, they will be sent across the border to the United States. The ultimate disadvantage will be to Canadians generally.
It is rather interesting that in the whole scenario of Canadian ownership the Tories said that if we tried to have more Canadian ownership, oil and gas exploration would be drastically reduced.


That's false.


The Tories spend hours opposing that. If we look at our energy-petroleum situation in this country today, we see that we have about a 33 year horizon of reserves and shut-in natural gas. So much natural gas has been discovered that it is not profitable at this stage to explore for more. If we look at oil reserves, we can see that the projections of the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources show energy self-sufficiency on a net basis for oil through to the end of the

April 30, 1985
Investment Canada Act
century. This shows that Canadian ownership is not adverse either in the petroleum industry or in other industries of this country. I hope that these amendments by our Party will be accepted by the House.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased once again to rise to take part in this debate which is about the fundamental direction that this country will be taking with respect to basic decisions on our economic future. This is an historic debate, a debate which profoundly affects the lives of not just our own constituents, particularly in areas in which there is a significant amount of foreign-owned industry, but the lives of all Canadians, their children and their children's children. Ultimately we are talking about the future direction of this country and whether that direction and our objective as a nation is going to be shaped here in Canada by Canadians, subject to the priority of Canadians, or whether instead, as has been advocated in this Bill by the Government, those fundamental priorities will be decided outside Canada in foreign corporate boardrooms, based not on Canadian priorities but on the global international priorities of multinational corporations, whose only concern is for the global bottom line. That is the essence of what this debate is all about.
Many witnesses appeared before the committee which gave this Bill careful study until the Government cut off debate in that committee. What we deeply regret in the context of these amendments and of our proposals generally on this Bill is that it would appear that the Government has fundamentally ignored the thrust of the representations that were made by the witnesses who appeared before that committee on this important Bill.
The amendments of my colleague from Essex-Windsor (Mr. Langdon), who has been doing such an outstanding job in leading the debate on behalf of the New Democratic Party on this vital legislation, fall into several broad categories. All of them deal with the underlying thrust of the Bill and the duties and powers of the Minister who has the obligation to implement this Bill on behalf of the Government. Perhaps nowhere else than in this grouping of amendments is the distinction more clear between the approach of the Government, which effectively is to throw the door wide open to foreign capital without any restrictions whatsoever, and the approach of the New Democratic Party, which is to say that we are prepared to accept that foreign investment can be beneficial to the people of Canada, but that investment must be made on terms and conditions which are ultimately decided by the people of Canada.
Let us look at the amendment set out in Motion No. 10. The Government's recommendation with respect to the duties and powers of the Minister states that the Minister shall assist in the development of industrial and economic policies that affect investment in Canada. The amendment of my colleague from Essex-Windsor goes far beyond that in its scope. It does not just call upon the Minister to assist in the development of these policies which will ultimately result in the demise of Canadian economic sovereignty, but to, and I quote:
-develop medium term and long term public and private industrial sector investment guidelines consistent with an industrial strategy that emphasizes full employment, growth, diversification, autonomy and export competitiveness of the Canadian economy;
What a profound contrast between the Government's approach, which basically says that the Minister may assist in the development of certain policies, and that of the New Democratic Party, which states that there is an obligation on the Minister to develop policies, not just short-term, fly by the seat of your pants policies, which has been the response of this Government to date, but to look at medium and long-term policies. Those policies should involve priorities both for the public sector and the private sector. We in this Party, unlike those on the government benches and in many ways unlike those in the Official Opposition, believe that there is an important role to be played by the public sector in this country.
The jobs task force, which was chaired so ably by my colleagues from Yorkton-Melville (Mr. Nystrom) and Essex-Windsor, held hearings across this country. That task force was told in no uncertain terms that the people of Canada accept an important role for the public sector, not some monolithic, bureaucratic, centralized public sector, but a public sector which is responsive to local community needs, responsive to the concerns and priorities of people who live in communities across this land.
There is a role for both the public and the private sector. There is an emphasis on an industrial strategy which has as its heart the promotion of full employment. Nowhere in this Bill is there a commitment by the Government of Canada to the most fundamental and basic priority that must affect all Canadians, and that is the commitment to full employment.
Each of us has seen daily in our constituency offices the effects of the personal and economic devastation that is caused by unemployment in this country, whether it be young people finishing university or high school, out in the job market and desperately trying to find any job, short term, long term, part-time, full-time, or whether it be the insecurity, even of those people who have jobs now, afraid that they may lose their employment. This Bill turns over those basic decisions about the direction of the Canadian economy to faceless men in foreign boardrooms. It is that which we are fundamentally opposed to and that which we will fight right down the line in this Bill until the Government comes to its senses and recognizes that it must change its direction. Full employment, therefore, is a fundamental priority.
Our amendment also suggests diversification in the economy. Autonomy, as I have indicated, lies at the heart of our recommendations so that it is Canadians who are making the decisions about our economy. With regard to export competitiveness, the situation is going to increasingly become the case in Canada of foreign companies deciding that because they do not want to compete with their American head offices, they are not going to be aggressive in the export market. We say that many new jobs lie in the export area. If foreign companies are not prepared aggressively to promote those opportunities,
April 30, 1985

then they indeed are not welcome because ultimately their strategy will result in the loss of Canadian jobs.
There are many other important amendments in this grouping, including the motion which would encourage and facilitate the acquisition and control of Canadian businesses by Canadians in areas pertaining to our cultural heritage and national identity. In this motion we speak of a variety of very sensible techniques to promote that important objective. We proposed a motion which would ensure that Canadian business enterprises owned and controlled by non-Canadians respect the rights of workers including the right to collective bargaining.
I will pursue these and other important questions in the course of ongoing debate on this fundamental motion and on this Bill. I hope that the Government will come to its senses and withdraw this odious and regressive piece of legislation.
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker I rise to take part in today's debate on these amendments with the same conviction I had when Bill C-15, an Act respecting investment in Canada, first came up for debate on second reading.
This Bill is the first measure introduced by the Conservative Government to convince its friends south of the border that not only is Canada open for business as before, but that now, under a Conservative administration, it is up for sale!
Mr. Speaker, we must create hundreds and thousands of jobs right now to avoid wasting a whole generation. The Conservatives promised that tens of thousands of jobs would materialize the minute they were sworn into office. And now, eight months later, they want to do away with a piece of legislation designed to protect Canadian investors, and throw the doors wide open to just about anybody-no questions asked-thus leaving Canada's small businesses and high technology industries to fall prey to foreign competitors.
Mr. Speaker, most jobs in this country are created by small businesses. As if this Bill in itself was not enough to destroy so many years of efforts by Canadians to control their own economy, it even provides that one person alone, a Minister, c