Mr. Speaker, I would like to put on the record the fact that a CP story has confirmed what we in British Columbia already knew, namely, Progressive Conservative MPs from British Columbia have been given 4,100 tickets to give to the public for the opening ceremonies of Expo 86. The New Democrats and the Liberals are splitting four tickets between them.
Expo is going to be a great national festival. Not only will it celebrate the future of British Columbia and Vancouver as the host city, but it will also be a great credit, as Expo 67 was, to the country as a whole. For the Government to convert this into a political extravaganza rather than a national and provincial festival is directly contrary to the unanimity with which people from all three political Parties are approaching this particular event.
I call upon the Government to take politics out of Expo, give it back to the people, and give it back to Members of Parliament across the board.


Order, please. Sixty seconds.


Mr. Speaker, multicultural organizations across Canada are outraged by recent actions of the Minister of State for Multiculturalism (Mr. Jelinek). These organizations have provided input to the Government more than once recently on the direction they would like multicultural policy to take. They have indicated shortcomings in Government action on the policy and have asked for more support for their own community acitivities.
While these groups waited for the opportunity to discuss these policy matters, they were suddenly told that the Minister
was developing a totally new multiculturalism policy which was in the final stages of preparation for cabinet consideration. The Minister did not ask for advice on this determination. He did not invite reaction to a draft statement. Instead, he said he was already acting on the new policy and was reviewing the whole funding and granting procedures in line with the development of the new policy. The members of our ethnocultural organizations and communities deserve a better lesson in parliamentary Government than the Minister has provided.


Order, please. Sixty seconds.


Mr. Speaker, the death of a young Ottawa woman on January 23, 1986, while undergoing a therapeutic abortion, has confirmed what everyone suspected. In many cases therapeutic abortion committees are no more than a rubber stamp.
Erin Shannon's abortion was listed as approved at 8 a.m. even though the committee did not meet until 10 a.m. Her abortion was initiated by 10.05 a.m. Apparently this is not unusual. The committee routinely approves 40 abortion applications at its weekly meetings which last only 20 minutes. That gives about 30 seconds to the consideration of each case.
Under our laws a therapeutic abortion committee should guarantee that a woman contemplating a pregnancy termination has received reliable information about her own and her baby's health, as well as information about the more positive alternatives to an abortion. These factors should also influence the decision of a committee on an application for abortion. This does not happen now, and the entire committee process is a meaningless farce.
I urge Hon. Members of the House seriously to consider changing our laws-


Order, please. Sixty seconds.

April 23, 1986


Mr. Speaker, 1986 will mark the seventy-first anniversary of the massacre of over 1.5 million Armenians-men, women, and children. The latest text of the United Nations' committee report on genocide lists the massacre of the Armenians alongside such horrors as what the Nazis did to the Jews. In 1982 the Government of Canada, the champion of human rights, passed a resolution condemning the Armenian massacre. On April 24 Armenians all over the world will be holding a silent vigil to commemorate the martyrs of the genocide. Let us all pause and reflect upon the Armenian experience.
The commemoration of this day will serve as a warning signal against other similar atrocities. No act of human destruction of such great magnitude can be prevented if we permit one to be forgotten. Tomorrow, and every April 24 hence, should be remembered as Armenian Memorial Day, for nothing threatens our future more than a refusal-


Order, please. Sixty seconds.


Last week, Mr. Speaker, I was in the ridings of Trois-Rivieres and Champlain. Yesterday I went to the riding of Saint-Hyacinthe-Bagot and visited Montreal's Salon de la femme.
Mr. Speaker, the people are increasingly angry with the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney). He was booed in his own riding. The representatives of the Members for Trois-Rivieres and Champlain were booed in these ridings. The absent Member for Saint-Hyacinthe-Bagot (Mrs. Champagne) was booed in her riding.
Mr. Speaker, all those people are against the Government's decision to cut off unemployment insurance benefits and, sure enough, they rallied the support of the Hon. Member for Champlain (Mr. Champagne) who has voiced his opposition to his Government's decision to deny unemployment insurance benefits to people who have worked and are entitled to them, people who have been misled by the Prime Minister of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, today I pay homage to distinguished guests and to businessmen of my riding's Italian community.
Mr. Speaker, we are growing ever more aware of the leading role played by cultural and ethnic minorities in Canada's economic growth. Our Government provides the ideal climate for them to contribute to our country's economic expansion.
In addition, Mr. Speaker, the Standing Committee on Multiculturalism to which I belong has been established to foster and monitor the Canada-wide implementation of federal multiculturalism policies.
[Editor's Note: The Hon. Member expressed her best wishes to the businessmen in Italian.]


Mr. Speaker, residents of Winnipeg are angry at the way in which the Residential Rehabilitation Assistance Program has been unilaterally altered by the Minister responsible for housing. This program has been responsible for regenerating entire neighbourhoods in Winnipeg. Without it and the Core Intiatives Program, parts of downtown Winnipeg could have gone the way of central cities in the United States.
Last year 1,200 homes were rehabilitated under these programs. This year no money has been released as yet. A quarter of the year is thus gone. Winnipegers have warmly endorsed the program and have co-operated fully with it, but now they find their RRAP applications have been cut off because of changes in the income requirements set by the Minister. People with applications dating back as long as two years have been cut off. Forty completed and processed applications, just awaiting CMHC signature, have been turned down. A full 600 of 900 applicants have been disqualified although they acted entirely in good faith, yet the Government will not see fit to judge their applications under the criteria under which these people applied-


Order, please. Sixty seconds.
April 23, 1986


Mr. Speaker, Canadians were pleased by the decision of the Minister of Transport (Mr. Mazankowski) to award the contract for the building of the new CN ferry to a Canadian shipyard. Now, however, is the time to focus our attention on the urgent needs of the shipbuilding industry in British Columbia. Now is the time to proceed with construction of the promised Class 8 Arctic icebreaker.
The icebreaker will provide important logistic support, and protection of Canadian sovereignty in Arctic waters. It must incorporate the most up to date technology, be efficient, and be built at reasonable cost. All these elements can be delivered by the shipyards in North Vancouver, British Columbia, which are renowned for their expertise in icebreaking technology and utilize the most advanced and productive techniques of design and construction. I hope the Ministers involved in making the decision on the icebreaker will move quickly so that our West Coast shipbuilding industries will have this opportunity to contribute to Arctic development which they so justly deserve.


Mr. Speaker, Dr. Vladimir Brodsky is a Russian physician who has been sentenced to three years in a labour camp for malicious hooliganism. The KGB has offered Dr. Brodsky his freedom if he renounces an independent peace group he helped establish in 1982.
This doctor is guilty of working for peace through association with "The Group to Establish Trust Between the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R.". This case symbolizes the concern Canadians have for efforts physicians in Canada and other places have made to remove the threat of nuclear war.
Dr. Brodsky's internment relegates the status of Dr. Chazov and his Soviet Physicians for Peace Group to that of a Russian progaganda tool. It ridicules Mr. Gorbachev's peace overtures as being only gestures.
I respectfully request this House and its Members to regard the treatment of Dr. Brodsky as representative of Soviet regard for non-governmental peace groups in Canada, and 1 hope all Members will join me in requesting the Soviet leadership to restore his basic freedoms to Dr. Brodsky.


Mr. Speaker, on Monday night Joe Ghiz and the Liberals captured 21 of the 32 seats in the provincial Legislative Assembly. They will form the next Government, and a strong Government at that. The winds of change were so strong that even a Premier could not hang on to his own seat.
There is a clear message in this resounding victory for the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney)-Canadians are fed up with Conservative policies. As I travelled door-to-door with the provincial candidates, the response was the same-the Mulroney Government's policies are hurting all Canadians.
Islanders were outraged by this Government giving less and taking more. It is also quite obvious to Islanders that the Prime Minister is not delivering on his promise to create jobs, jobs, jobs.
Yes, Mr. Speaker, the Mulroney Government has failed Prince Edward Islanders. We now have a strong Premier who will stand up and fight for a fair deal for all Prince Edward Island.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, as we all know, Canada is on the road to prosperity. More Canadians have jobs, more people are buying homes, and more people are seeing an improvement in their standard of living thanks to the implementation of Conservative policies. However, this new prosperity is not always equally distributed, and that is why our Government has introduced an unprecedented range of employment programs. Under the direction of the Minister responsible, these programs are aimed at increasing participation by Canadians in the labour market and will enable greater numbers of Canadian men and women to take advantage of our economic renewal.
And I agree with all those people who have gone back to work since the September 1984 election: "What a relief to have a job again and to get your pay at the end of the week."
We in the Progressive Conservative Party realize that the best social program is a job, and that is why we are working so hard to create new jobs for Canadians each month.

April 23, 1986
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, as occurs every day, today the Hon. Member for Capilano (Mrs. Collins) tells us about the need for shipbuilding on the West Coast. It was not long ago that a Member on that same side was speaking about the need for shipbuilding on the East Coast. This is another example of Conservative double-speak because the Conservative Cabinet refuses to recognize the need on either coast.
I suggest it is about time that Conservative back-benchers understood that the public know that Conservative backbenchers do not represent them adequately, otherwise action would have been taken by the Cabinet.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to draw the attention of the House to a special event that will start tomorrow at Saint-Hubert in the riding of Chambly, when the Sixth International Aeronautics Show is officially opened by our astronaut, Commander Marc Garneau. This impressive show is a concrete example of the vitality of Canadian youth.
In fact, this show, one of the biggest in Canada, is organized by students of the National Aerotechnical School, who, with the co-operation of industry and our Government, have succeeded in giving us a remarkable presentation of what they can do. In addition, this show is a unique opportunity for the Quebec and Canadian aeronautics industry to make itself known.
Mr. Speaker, I invite all Canadians to come and see for themselves what the energy and entrepreneurship of the students of this institution have been able to achieve, and I would like to take this opportunity to wish them every success.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Trade
negotiations with the United States are not yet under way, yet the matter is bogged down in the United States Senate by conflict, confusion, and capitulation. Democratic Senator Max Baucus of Montana said: "It is the backroom closed-door, arm-twisting stage-the stage where politics is at its most foul. We're at the foul stage period". I know that you may find those words unacceptable, Mr. Speaker, but they were uttered in the United States Senate.
What backroom deals are being made by the Prime Minister and his Government to try to keep these negotiations on track? Will he tell the Canadian people what is behind these discussions? What is going on?


Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition clearly does not believe that kind of question himself. He makes little effort to disguise his amusement with his own questions. What is going on in the United States Senate is germane to their own democratic process. The administration is following the prescribed formalities.
I assume that what is taking place in the United States is their own special brand of democracy, in much the same way as Question Period is ours. When the response is forthcoming, the Government of Canada will respond. Meanwhile we think it is the normal functioning of a democracy, and we will have to wait to see what comes out of the United States Senate.


have a supplementary, Mr. Speaker. It would be amusing if there were not so much at stake for Canada. If the talks start from scratch, are we going to put everything on the bargaining table? The Prime Minister has made a commitment to remove our cultural industries, the auto pact, marketing boards and other economic sectors from the bargaining table. Has the Prime Minister made any concessions with respect to these restrictions, with a view to the results of the U.S. Senate vote?


Mr. Speaker, as far as Canada is concerned, we submitted a program that responded to existing demands. We have conducted thorough consultations with all sectors in this country. We followed the proper procedure in expressing to the United States the interest of the Government of Canada in pursuing trade talks with the United States-as I had the pleasure of announcing here in the House on September 26-and everything was done according to the rules.
That being said, I may point out to the Hon. Member that we are waiting for the results from the Senate Committee, and I am sorry to hear how negative the Leader of the Opposition is about this vote, because today, Mr. Bourassa, speaking on behalf of all Quebecers, expressed the hope that the Senate Committee would approve trade talks with Canada.
April 23, 1986


Mr. Bourassa will be interested, as will other Premiers, in what backroom deals are made to secure that consent. If there are backroom deals in the United States between the administration and the Senate, there are backroom deals between this administration in Canada and the provinces.


Oh, oh!


Question.


Mr. Speaker, the Canadian people will not have confidence in what is going on unless the Prime Minister consents to a full parliamentary debate at an early opportunity in order that we can understand what concessions were given in Washington, and what is being done with our provinces on this side of the border.


Mr. Speaker, if indeed there are negotiations I think a debate of some kind would be appropriate. First and foremost it would finally flush out where the Liberals stand on this issue. No one knows where they are on any issue. They are either on both sides, or none.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister as well. Yesterday in the House he said categorically that he would never accept the U.S. Senate proposals which outlined guidelines and conditions. Canadian officials in Washington are quoted in a CP wire story today as saying that the Prime Minister would not automatically refuse to negotiate under the Senate proposals. What kind of two-faced game is going on? Why are Canadian officials saying one thing in Washington and he is saying another thing in this Parliament? When are we going to find out what the real Canadian stand is, and when is he going to control his officials in Washington so that they represent this Government properly?


Mr. Speaker, the only two-faced game going on here is that this is one face of Liberal trade policy, and over there is the other face. They are both opposite.
I have indicated many times that we are looking for a clean launch without preconditions. We expect that will be the case. We hope there will be a positive-I do not want to interrupt the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition and the Hon. Member from Winnipeg.


No, keep going.


Is the conversation over?
Oral Questions


Keep going.


All right. I thought he might want to hear the answer.


Go ahead.


Order, please. Perhaps just a supplementary question.


The clean launch is going under water.


I always say that every time the Prime Minister looks in the mirror he is getting two points of view.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has not answered the question. Are Canadian officials in Washington saying to their American counterparts that he would be prepared to accept conditions as outlined by the Senate which would involve complete agreement by the provinces and acceptance of the fact that Canadian subsidies on resources would be wiped off the table? We want to know what Canadian officials in Washington are promising or committing to on behalf of the Government.


Mr. Speaker, the answer to the Hon. Member's question is of course not. The Prime Minister of Canada spoke for Canada in the House of Commons yesterday on this question. That position stands. It is consistent with the position this Government has been taking throughout the long debate, a claim which cannot be made by the Liberal Party of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I have a very simple and straightforward question for the Prime Minister.


That's a change.


Hear, hear!


Order, please.


It is possible-


First one this session.


A simple question for a simple-minded Cabinet.


Order, please. The Hon. Member has the right to put his question.


Clearly the difficult questions have become too much for him so I will ask a very straightforward question.

April 23, 1986
Oral Questions
If the policy of the Canadian Government is to have a clean launch, why are Canadian officials in Washington saying the contrary? Did he authorize it? Will he stop it if it is taking place?


Mr. Speaker, to answer that very simple question very simply, they are not.


Mr. Speaker, having left our officials in Washington to play their game while the politicians here appear to play their game, let me pose this question. Will the Prime Minister here and now reject the conditions suggested by the Senate, including equal treatment for U.S. investors here, more government purchase of U.S. goods, and full protection of U.S. intellectual property, as totally unacceptable, damaging to jobs here, and against our economic sovereignty?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member is making a false accusation.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. The report from the National Council of Welfare now confirms what the Opposition has been saying all along; Conservative budgets are Robin Hood in reverse, the rich get richer and the poor will get poorer.
How can the Minister of Finance justify gloating over the introduction of a sales tax credit when the Minister knows that a Canadian family of two children, earning $20,000 a year, will not qualify for the sales tax credit?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think the Hon. Member has looked carefully at the facts. What is very clear is that real disposable income for all Canadians is up this year and will be up again next year. Taxes for those who are in the lowest income brackets are going to be down this year, and he has commented on one of the reasons for that. The third comment that I would make is that the reason for this policy is to improve the economic situation of the country, to get interest rates down, to improve the position of middle income Canadians and to provide them with the ability to get a lower cost mortgage on their homes. I point out to him that mortgage rates today are at the lowest level they have been since 1978.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, would the Minister not agree that through his own measures introduced in two consecutive Budgets the Government is pushing down the disposable income of the people who struggle the hardest in this country, the working poor, and he is asking those who earn between $20,000 and $30,000 a year to lose over 2 per cent of disposable income over the next four years?


Mr. Speaker, for those most in need, taxes are lower. That is a fact. The other point I make is that one of the results of the lower interest rates and the lowest mortgage rates since 1978 is that housing starts are up, more jobs are being created-


They are nowhere.


The Hon. Member opposite says they are nowhere. Well, 1 will tell you jobs are being created in many parts of the country. Five hundred and eighty thousand jobs have been created, and that is because of the policies of this Government.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister rise and state categorically, unequivocally, that if there are any conditions of any kind attached to the American negotiating position in free trade, we will not take part in the negotiations?


Order, please. The Hon. Member knows that is a hypothetical question.


It is not; it is not.


It is.


It is not hypothetical.


The Government Members will come to order now, and that includes the front bench.
The Hon. Member knows that is a hypothetical question. Order, please. If he has a question on Government policy I am prepared to hear it.


Mr. Speaker, it has been reported repeatedly that Canadian representatives and U. S. representatives in Washington are speaking about a deal being worked out that has conditions attached to it in advance of the negotiations. I ask the Prime Minister, that being the case will he say categorically that Canada will not negotiate at all unless such conditions are absolutely out of the picture?
April 23, 1986


Mr. Speaker, for the third time today, that allegation about activities of Canadian public officials in Washington is false. The Prime Minister stated the position of the Government of Canada with regard to preconditions in this House of Commons yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Right Hon. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, this morning, the National Welfare Council revealed the disastrous consequences of your Government's policies and demonstrated clearly that the poor are getting poorer and the rich are getting richer. Could the Prime Minister inform the House whether he was aware, when the two Budgets were brought down, that a two-salary family with an income of $21,000 would lose $2,000 in income, while a family with an income of $100,000 would also be losing no more than $2,000? Is that his kind of social justice?


Mr. Speaker, I believe we all know that the members of the National Council of Welfare are responsible people who want to look at these areas objectively. However, I suggest that the Hon. Member also look at the assumptions underlying the projections of the council. For example, the council made the assumption, on the conclusions drawn by the Hon. Member, that no measure will be brought in by the Government between 1986 and the end of the decade to improve the financial condition of those in lower- income groups. It also makes the assumption that there will be no increase in real earnings between 1986 and 1990. I think most Members of the House would be realistic and say that that is an assumption that cannot be substantiated.


Order.


It should also be noted that they are making the assumption that no one-


Order.


I could give more examples.


Hear, hear!
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary. I hope the Prime Minister will have the courage to answer these people himself.
Could the Prime Minister inform the House why-and these are his own Government's figures-an employee with an income of only $10,850 will get only $905, while a family with an income of $100,000 will get $517?
Does the Minister have the courage to rise in the House and
say-


Order.


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister had the courage to start getting the economy back on its feet so that the very poor whom the Member pretends to represent, but is not representing, will begin getting some benefits.


Hear, hear!


I can go on, Mr. Speaker. For example, there is the assumption that the surtax will remain until 1990. It also makes the assumption that the Ontario taxes raised by Mr. Nixon and Mr. Peterson, are an example for all of Canada and that those are reflected across the country. Furthermore, no provincial surtaxes or credits are taken into account. Lastly-


Order.


In September, 1984, five year mortgage rates were 14.25 per cent; this year, in April, they are 10.75 per cent. Those are the facts.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Will he comment on the report of his advisory council which states that a single parent family earning $14,000 will lose $1,000 in disposable income, but with the present legislation a single parent family with an income of $80,000 will actually gain $777 in disposable income? In other words, certain people will gain while others will lose disposable income. Is that his concept of fairness? How can he live with that kind of Budget that has been introduced by his Minister of Finance?


Mr. Speaker, I can live with a Budget and an economic plan that have brought confidence back into the economy. I can live with a Budget and an economic plan that have been the

April 23, 1986
Oral Questions
backbone for 580,000 new jobs, almost all of them permanent jobs. I can live with a Budget and economic plan that have shown the mortgage decrease that I just reiterated. I am sure the Hon. Member, as finance critic, might even have the objectivity to know what some of the savings would be on a typical mortgage for an average income family. That is what 1 can live with.


Mr. Speaker, I will ask the Hon. Minister once again if he can live with something the Minister of Finance tells us is going to happen, and that is that 50 per cent of the tax revenue for Canada four years from now will come from the people of Canada and only 15 per cent from the corporations of Canada? Does he think that is fair and equitable?


Mr. Speaker, in terms of tax fairness I think the Member should also know, as finance critic for the New Democratic Party, that it has been this Minister of Finance who has said there will be fairness in the tax system. It is this Minister of Finance who came in with the minimum tax. Those Members are not very enthusiastic now, after they were touting it throughout the country in the last election. It is also this Minister of Finance who said that he wants to bring tax reform and greater fairness to the system. Those are the facts, and I wish he would start being honest about some of those issues.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. He will know that the Government of New Brunswick has commissioned an economic impact study on the possible closure of the CN shops in Moncton. The loss of jobs and the social costs would be horrendous. Will the Minister explain to the House why he is refusing to take any positive action to protect those 1,200 jobs in the CN shops in Moncton?


Mr. Speaker, the Government is not refusing to take positive action. We are working very closely with CN and others to ensure that the excess capacity within the main shop system of the CNR can be alleviated and handled in a fair and equitable manner.


Mr. Speaker, will the Minister give an undertaking to live up to the commitment he gave to the Member of Parliament for Moncton, as well as to the Senator in the other Chamber, with
regard to protecting those jobs in Moncton? Will he categorically agree that those 1,200 jobs will be protected and the 250 people on lay-off will be rehired?


Mr. Speaker, I said yesterday and I repeat today that the excess capacity situation in the CN main shops is being closely examined. We hope this will be completed by mid-1986. At that time any action that may be contemplated with respect to rationalization or adjustment will be announced, and any action will be taken in a fair and equitable manner.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration. The Minister challenged the private sector to create career related summer jobs for students in 1985. According to her Department's own program evaluation, the private sector failed to deliver. Will the Minister explain why she has placed yet more emphasis on the private sector under Challenge '86 when her own evaluation says that the non-private sector is at least three times more effective at creating jobs for students?


Mr. Speaker, in 1984, 10 per cent of jobs created for students in the summer came from the private sector. In 1985, 32 per cent came from the private sector.


Hear, hear!


In 1984 effectively 12 per cent of the jobs were related to the careers for which young people were studying. In 1985 the figure is 67 per cent. In 1986 it will be even better.


Hear, hear!


Ask another one, Howard.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps the Minister-whatever her portfolio is- will beat the air a few more times to explain why her report says that many of the jobs in the private sector would have existed anyway. Career related jobs were more frequent in the non-private sector. Why is she playing this game with the taxpayers and the students in respect to job creation rather than putting money into the hands of the non-private sector to create jobs for those who need them?


Mr. Speaker, last year 80 per cent of the private sector employers
April 23, 1986

said that those jobs would not have been created if it had not been for Challenge '85. In 1986 greater emphasis is being put on the private sector for career related jobs and many young people will gain the experience they need to obtain permanent jobs once they graduate. That is what this Government is working to achieve.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration and it concerns the same matter that was just raised. The quota on non-profit projects is still too inflexible under Challenge '86. Many excellent volunteer community projects are not being funded. Will the Minister change the quota on non-profit applications under Challenge '86, while she still has time, so that the best projects in each area can be selected and implemented?


Mr. Speaker, when the proposals for this year were drawn up, I have to assure the Hon. Member that, yes, indeed, emphasis was placed on the private sector. I can say now that the program Challenge '86 is a runaway success.


Oh, oh!


Absolutely.


The money isn't used up.


The fact is that we have received 58,000 proposals, the largest number of proposals which have ever come in. Many of them are from the private sector and they bring with them $150 million more for jobs for young people this summer.


Mr. Speaker, I do not know how she knows Challenge '86 is already a great success when it has not even started yet.


More applications than ever.


Wake up.


But her evaluation program for Challenge '85-


Order, please. Supplementary question.


Hon. Warren Allmand (Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine
East): Why is it that many excellent non-profit projects such as the Vancouver Food Bank are being turned down by the Challenge '86 Program while many questionable business projects are being accepted? Will the Minister explain that? Will she not change the rules while she still has time?
Oral Questions
Once again, Mr. Speaker, I have to advise the Hon. Member that he is wrong. That proposal was approved.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration. Her department has announced the Community Futures Program. Can the Minister tell the House when Quebecers will be able to benefit from the practical application of this program?


Mr. Speaker, as Members of the House of Commons will know, we are at the present time briefing all Members on the Community Futures Program. We will continue to do that. I can assure the Hon. Member and, indeed, all Hon. Members, that the first community to be named under the new Community Futures Program will be announced within a couple of weeks.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Does the Canadian Government share President Reagan's view that Nicaragua is part of "the international terrorism network" with Libya and should also be dealt with by force of arms?
Right Hon. Joe Clark (Secretary of State for External
Affairs): Mr. Speaker, we have made clear on a number of occasions that in our judgment the problems in Central America are problems which are economic and social in their root and nature. That is why the policy of Canada has been directed along two channels. One has been the encouragement of development assistance, and the second has been the encouragement of the Contadora process. That remains our policy.


Mr. Speaker, I direct my second question to the Prime Minister and I hope he will reply. Will the Prime Minister tell President Reagan at the upcoming Summit that the United States might get more help in fighting

April 23, 1986
Oral Questions
State-sponsored terrorism if the American Government were not sponsoring a group which is trying violently to overthrow the Government of Nicaragua?


Mr. Speaker, there are some people in this House who want to use the threat of terrorism as a means of expressing their political point of view.


What?


Name one.


Shame!


There are others here who want to use the influence that Canada has to mount an effective world response to the causes of terrorism. The problem, as was evidenced in Libya, is that the Americans found themselves in a position where there was no alternative-


Oh, yes, there was.


-but a military alternative. Our challenge must be to work with our allies and friends to build alternative responses to international terrorism.


There is an alternative and you know what it is.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the genial Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. Can the Minister explain why Petro-Canada and other principal oil companies have stopped giving volume discounts to prairie farmers so that the prices in farm communities like Carmen, Manitoba, are only two cents less now than they were last fall even though the world price for fuel oil has dropped by some 60 per cent? What is the Minister going to do about this unfair and inequitable arrangement, especially when our western farmers are facing such difficult times?


Mr. Speaker, I have said many times in this House that I do not as Minister interfere in the day-to-day operations of Petro-Canada. I suggest the Hon. Member take this issue up with the company concerned.


Mr. Speaker, the problem is that all companies, including Petro-Canada, operate in the same way. Since that is the case, Petro-Canada can give some leadership. Would the Minister contact the President of Petro-Canada and ask that company to reinstate the volume discount
it had given in previous years, which amounted to about eight cents per litre?


Mr. Speaker, I will take that as representation and get back to the Hon. Member.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. On March 13, the Minister in response to my question concerning the preferential tariff for South Korean steel, said that the import tribunal was the route that Ipsco and other steel companies would have to go. Now apparently the tribunal has found that the import of cheap Korean steel is hurting Ipsco and other steel operations in Canada. I ask again why Canada is the only country still giving the Koreans preferential treatment? And will it be terminated soon?


Mr. Speaker, I believe I have indicated to the Hon. Member that this matter is something which should best be dealt with by the Tariff Board. That is the normal process which should be followed. Once that process has been completed we can then consider our options.


Supplementary?


Supplementary question, the Hon. Member for Nickel Belt.


Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister think it appropriate for him to visit South Korea next month at a time when there is great concern about the undue influence which seems to be exerted within its Government which puts its Opposition Leader under house arrest and violates human rights?


That's supplementary to what?


That is about as supplementary as-


Order. It is very difficult to find that a supplementary question to the first question.


Mr. Speaker, I am sorry, that is a supplementary question.


Order, please.


That is a supplementary question.
April 23, 1986


Order.


That is a supplementary question.


Order. The Hon. Member for Nickel Belt-


That is a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.


Not in my view. The Hon. Member for Gatineau.


That is a supplementary. No, that is a supplementary.


The Hon. Member for Nickel Belt will resume
his seat.


My colleague has referred to what seems to be preferential treatment for South Korean steel and I am asking the Prime Minister about-


I give the Hon. Member for Nickel Belt my last warning.


-his visit to South Korea and the support of this Government for South Korean steel. That is what I am asking.


Out. Out.


I am forced to name the Hon. Member for Nickel Belt. He is required to leave.


Out, out.


He knows I am right.


I am required to name the Hon. Member for Nickel Belt. I must ask him to leave.


He knows I am right.


Out.


He knows I am right.


The great Korean connection.


"The Manchurian Candidate".
And Mr. Rodriguez having withdrawn:


The Hon. Member for York West.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State for Immigration. A Globe
Oral Questions
and Mail report today indicated that his Department had issued ministerial permits waiving all medical and security clearances for the six Soviet defectors in Afghanistan, thus ensuring speedy passage to Canada.
Can the Minister confirm that his Department issued or was in the process of issuing ministerial permits? And if so, why are those six individuals not here now? Who vetoed his order?


Mr. Speaker, I tried to indicate to the House yesterday that there is an initiative under way designed to try to bring those six Soviet prisoners of war to freedom. Certainly we on this side of the House want to do everything we can to bring those POWs from captivity to freedom. I would hope there would be some understanding this time within the Liberal Party of the sensitivity of this kind of operation, and that we would have co-operation on the floor of this House.


Mr. Speaker, there is growing evidence that there is clear political interference by the Minister of State for External Affairs.


I will direct my second question to the Minister of State for Immigration. If he is not prepared to answer my previous question will he confirm or deny that he wrote to his colleague, the Minister of State for External Affairs, complaining bitterly about the obstructive role of the Department of External Affairs? And will he table that letter so we can find out the truth?


Mr. Speaker, I want to confirm to the Hon. Member that the officials of my Department have indicated clearly that they are working in close collaboration with officials of the Secretary of State for External Affairs and we are seeking in every way to expedite the matter, as the Minister has just indicated in his response.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to put a question to the Minister of Finance. This being National Volunteer Week, can the Minister tell us the status of discussions with the National Volunteer Organization concerning the funding of charitable organizations?


Mr. Speaker, as I indicated in my Budget Speech, we have had a number of

April 23, 1986
Oral Questions
discussions with members of the National Volunteer Organization to try to arrive at a fair and more effective means of encouraging support of charitable organizations. These discussions will continue. That is a matter that is best dealt with in a Budget. I would expect that there will be something that we could discuss at the time of the next Budget.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will recall that on Monday I asked him a question and he promised to look into the matter of what the Government was doing to protect our traditional grain market in Syria in the face of the Americans, through the subsidized BICEP Program, going after our traditional market there.


Mr. Speaker, the question of the pressure brought upon Canadian grain producers by the trade war between the United States and the European Community is one that was addressed very strongly by the Minister of Finance at the OECD. The Prime Minister has indicated that he and the Government are going to make representations to the Government of the United States to protect the interests of Canadian grain growers with regard to markets that are traditionally ours in Syria.
I should add that we do not intend to limit our action to the protection of Canadian grain markets in Syria. We are going to protect traditional Canadian grain markets anywhere in the world where they are threatened.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister knows that the BICEP Program is being used now to take away our traditional market. What action has the Government taken to protect that very important Canadian market?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member should know that the reason that has happened is because of the large-scale agricultural war-no other word can describe it-between the United States and the European Community. Canada has begun at the OECD to raise strong warnings about the dangers that provides for Canadian producers, and indeed for producers in the Third World. We will also be using all of our diplomatic instruments to bring to the attention of the United States authorities that we regard it not only unfair but inappropriate action on the part of France for their subsidy programs to be depriving Canadian grain producers of traditional markets.


Mr. Speaker, the provincial Minister of Health for Newfoundland, Dr. Twoney, said this morning that Ministers of Health across the nation are opposed to the federal Government's proposed legislation banning generic drugs and that they will be coming to Ottawa next week to lobby against the legislation. My question is directed to the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. Is the Minister aware of this opposition by provincial Health Ministers, or is this just another example of the Government's lack of consultation?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member should know that there is not a lack of consultation. Not many months ago the argument was that we should quit consulting and start taking decisions. Now it is the other way. I would like to tell the Hon. Member that I will be meeting with the Health Ministers on April 28.


Mr. Speaker, the Ministers have written to the Minister of National Health and Welfare opposing this legislation and the provincial Health Minister released details of that this morning. Since the Health Ministers of the provinces are opposed to this legislation, will the Minister now admit that the legislation just will not wash?


Mr. Speaker, if the Hon. Member keeps acting this way, he might need the pharmaceutical industry a lot sooner than he thinks. I think my relations with provincial Health Ministers are pretty good. On April 28 I will discuss this or any other issues they wish to raise with me.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. A recent United States freedom of information lawsuit revealed that since 1965 there have been 630 accidents involving nuclear weapons held aboard U.S. naval vessels visiting the ports of Hawaii. Will the Minister today advise us that he is prepared to release to Canadians information on accidents involving nuclear weapons held aboard any vessels visiting ports such as Vancouver, Victoria, or Halifax, or is he not aware that such information exists?


Ask your seatmate, the Hon. Member for Y orkton-Melville.
April 23, 1986


Mr. Speaker, I am prepared, of course, on this matter to defer to my temporary seatmate.


Welcome aboard!


Hear, hear!


The practice of the Canadian Government will conform with Canadian law respecting access to information. If the Hon. Member wishes to make an application under that law, I can assure him I will facilitate a response to it.


Mr. Speaker, of course I have already applied under the freedom of information legislation. My supplementary question is directed to the Prime Minister. As the Prime Minister is probably aware, Vancouver has voted itself a nuclear weapons free zone. I wonder if the Prime Minister would make clear that vessels carrying nuclear weapons are not to be tied up in downtown Vancouver, because Canada's policy is clear that we do not allow nuclear weapons in our country, or is downtown Vancouver not in our country?
Right Hon. Joe Clark (Secretary of State for External
Affairs): Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member for Skeena has been away from his province for too long. I can confirm that not only is downtown Vancouver in this country but it is in the heart of the preoccupation of the Government.
The Hon. Member will also know that the Government of Canada has followed for some time, and intends to continue to follow the practice followed by various Governments of not publicizing information regarding the possible transit of nuclear materials on the vessels of our allies. That is one of the policies to which we are committed as an ally.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Tourism. He and I have received many complaints about the Canadian Pavilion at the Epcot Centre at Disney World in Florida. It certainly does not reflect accurately our country or our people. What action is the Minister prepared to take to get Disney World to make some changes so that we can have a Canadian Pavilion which truly exhibits the beauty and grandeur which await potential tourists to our country?


Order, please. Order. It is difficult for me to find that any Minister of the Crown has any responsibility for Epcot Centre.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, it just so happens that we do have jurisdiction for that particular part of the country. My officials and the officials of Disney Productions met on April 10. The objective of that meeting was to see whether or not we could get official government participation at Epcot Centre for three basic reasons: one, of course, to improve our image; two, to relieve an irritant; and three, to make sure that we can project the best possible image for tourists visiting this country.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration. On several occasions the Minister stated in this House that she had given ample notice of the consequences of regulations on unemployment insurance and pension income. Could she explain why unemployment insurance offices were so advised by telex on December 30, 1985 and not before?


Mr. Speaker, as I have mentioned many times and as the Hon. Member has said, the decision to make changes to the unemployment insurance regulations was announced on November 8, 1984, and indeed, Sir, on December 21, 1984, that announcement was noted particularly in the House of Commons. That day a press release which received wide publicity was also issued and that press release said: "The treatment of pension income as earnings will come into effect starting in January 1986. Claimants then receiving pension income from previous employment will have this pension income taken into account for UI purposes only after that date."


Mr. Speaker, will the Minister admit that her November 26, 1985 letter to the Hon. Member for Trois-Rivieres and the telex to the unemployment insurance office prove that thousands of Canadians have lost thousands of dollars as a result of her incompetence?


Mr. Speaker, in addition to the number of times this matter has been raised in the House, it was discussed with

April 23, 1986
Privilege
individual corporations and with individual Members of Parliament. Also it was discussed widely across the country. I can assure-


How many Members accepted it?


The Hon. Member for Hamilton Mountain asks me how many Members accepted it. The question was whether or not it was known. I can assure him that he and many others in the House raised the issue on a number of occasions so that it was widely know. I cannot say that everyone accepted it, no.


Mr. Speaker, during Question Period the Minister of Employment and Immigration (Miss MacDonald) told the House that the Vancouver Food Bank had been funded under the Challenge '86 Program. We have just received a telephone call from Vancouver during which 