Mr. Speaker, they should have called it the "great Canadian lottery rip-off' but instead it is labelled "your official Canadian lottery form". What is it? It is an invitation to participate in the official Canadian Government lottery and win up to $50 million in cash. It is described as just like playing keno in Las Vegas, and is the lure to rip off thousands of Americans who have been purchasing these tickets from at least four Canadian mail order companies at mark-ups of almost up to 400 per cent.
In fact this official form has so flooded the market that, on a recent visit that I made to the State of Florida, three of my husband's relatives had received this unsolicited pitch in the mail. Not only was there a promise of million dollar winners, the so-called official guarantee said that one in four had a chance to win.
We know that the Ontario Government is already acting to prohibit mail order sales outside the province. However, we also know that at least one agent buys his tickets outside the province anyway so that the action of the Ontario Government alone will not stop this rip-off.
1 ask the federal Government to launch an immediate investigation into mail fraud and false advertising, and further ask the Minister of Justice (Mr. Crosbie) to include in his Criminal Code amendments a provision to ensure this fly-bynight operation is illegal across Canada.
The Government talks about our great friendship with the United States. Now is the chance to put this claim into practice by preventing the wholesale rip-off of our American neighbours and consumers.


Mr. Speaker, only one day of debate is left before the Government will impose on Canadians Bill C-70, an Act to reduce the deficit at
the expense of the poor and children. Closure was imposed on a debate and the Government has reduced indexation of January family allowance cheques even before the legislation has passed.
It sought advice from the public and from experts, and then ignored it. This farcical consultation process has alienated organizations representing most Canadians, including women s organizations, poor people's organizations, social policy groups, labour, church groups and many more. Experts stated unanimously that deindexation of the family allowance below the rate of inflation will be harmful to children, families, and the poor. The Conservative Government has ignored their testimony and their research.
Now New Brunswick has added its voice to the growing list of protestors. A spokesperson states:
We view this proposed cut-back as one further piece of evidence of the disregard and contempt that the federal Government holds toward this Maritime province, especially in view of the following facts: 35 per cent of New Brunswick's children live in poverty; 43 per cent of rural children live in poverty and 47 per cent of the 64,000 people on social assistance are children. What good will the federal Government's cut-backs to child benefits do for these children?
Petitions continue to flow from all parts of Canada-


I regret to advise the Hon. Member that her time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, four months ago, I presented a petition signed by some 10,000 residents of the Outaouais region who were asking this House to urge Bell Canada to eliminate long distance charges in my constituency. At the time, some people told me that the parliamentary process would prove useless.
Mr. Speaker, I am happy to announce to the House that I have received a letter from Bell Canada saying that long distance charges will be abolished in the municipalities of Thurso and Buckingham. I am especially happy for Thurso which is celebrating its centennial this year, as I shall now be able to improve communications within the municipality in this very important year.
There is still some work to be done for the municipality of Gatineau where the community of interests reaches only 46

January 17, 1986
per cent while regulations provide that it should be 50 per cent for long distance charges to be eliminated.
I therefore ask all my constituents of Gatineau to communicate with their municipality at least once a month so that we may achieve this 50 per cent and eliminate long distance charges throughout the beautiful federal constituency of Gatineau.


Mail service is a line of communication binding our peoples together. It is the lifeblood of commerce and industry. That is why we want, need, and deserve a model, first-class postal service and we on this side of the House will not be happy until we have one.
The importance of the system is no more evident than it is at Christmas, and this year postal workers and retirees brought Christmas to many homes throughout southwestern Ontario.
Sixty thousand letters addressed to Santa Claus were answered. Schools in St. Catharines, for instance, competed for window space, resulting in a cheerful, colorful atmosphere to work in and to visit.
Many offices placed Christmas trees in their lobbies to have customers and employees contribute gifts for distribution by the Salvation Army and associated charities.
Literally hundreds of post office employees were involved in this voluntary effort at a time when the Post Office was handling a higher than usual volume of mail and, for the most part, pleasantly and on time.
Now if we could have that attitude and commitment to service through the 365 days of the year, we would all be proud to sing out: "Canada Post: It's Ours".


Mr. Speaker, the current security alert at Ottawa, Toronto, and Montreal airports is an unfortunate fact of life in today's climate of international terrorism. No country is immune from the insanity of terrorism, not even Canada. Each country must develop its own master plan or strategic response to every aspect of the terrorist menace, from security searches and precautions through to informing the public of the specific nature of a threat.
The manner in which information on the airport threats was supplied to the public in the last 36 hours leaves a lot to be desired. Even though the stepped-up security was obvious at the airports in question, information to the public was coming
out piecemeal at best. Fear, uncertainty, and rumours thrive in this sort of an atmosphere to the detriment of airport workers, the travelling public, and concerned citizens.
I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that the public has a right to know the level of risk involved where a terrorist threat is present, and the Government has a duty to furnish prompt information to the public. The Government should be more forthright so that Canadians have enough information to be able to make up their own minds on whether to travel by air or to stay home.


Mr. Speaker, drilling for minerals and fossil fuels in Canada reached a record high in recent months. Currently there is not a diamond drill available for hire east of the Manitoba border, thanks to the flow-through share initiatives put in place by the Government.
In addition, some 11,720 oil or gas wells were drilled in the four western provinces in 1985.
Quietly, a few days ago, perhaps the most dramatic drilling news in recent years was announced when the test results on the Amauligak 1-65 well in the Beaufort Sea became known. The flow rates and calculated production capability are among the highest recorded in Canada. Oil flowed at rates of more than 7,000 barrels per day from two intervals, with calculated production capacity at one of the intervals at almost 35,000 barrels per day.
The result of the 1-65 well indicated the Amauligak structure contains at least 400 million barrels of oil, and reserves could be as high as 900 million barrels. With total reserves in the near and offshore in the Beaufort now reaching a billion barrels, production is a real possibility. By comparison, reserves in Hibernia are estimated to be between 500 million and 800 million barrels.
This means that we are closer to energy self-sufficiency. It means new jobs. It means new wealth. It is another dimension to our national sovereignty. The Government has created an encouraging economic environment for risk ventures. The oil industry-


I regret to advise the Hon. Member that his time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Public Works (Mr. La Salle) intends to continue with the lay-offs of some 270 cleaners who work in post offices across Canada. Many of these people are longterm employees close to retirement; a couple of dozen are within a year of retirement. Many of them are disabled. Only six of these people have found alternative work, and not one of them has been retrained.
The fact is that these employees will be replaced by a private contractor, so the Government will still have to pay for the service. The Public Works policy of contracting out is based upon outdated information. It will cost almost as much in welfare, unemployment insurance and forgone income taxes to keep these people unemployed.
How can the Minister justify these particular lay-offs? Even if the Minister's own standards of behaviour condone the laying-off of people and their replacement by others, does he not realize that most Canadians disagree with his actions? In fact, 61 per cent of Canadians polled on this issue find his actions unacceptable, and only a small minority support his actions. Does the Minister think that he is some little northern Ronald Reagan taking on a great and powerful union and crushing them. Wake up, Mr. Minister. These are some of the lowest paid people doing essential work. Most Canadians find the Minister's actions repugnant, wasteful, and unacceptable.


According to a recent survey carried out by the Conseil du patronat du Quebec, Mr. Speaker, business people are anticipating a continuation of the economic recovery the beginning of which coincided with the election of a Progressive Conservative Government in Ottawa. In the province of Quebec, Mr. Speaker, 73 per cent of all businessmen and women interviewed stated that they were optimistic as to the economic future in their province. Moreover, Mr. Speaker, three of every four persons surveyed expressed the opinion that the current political climate was good; 73 per cent of them felt that this climate, likely to favour investment and job creation, would continue to improve over the next few months.
Mr. Speaker, there is no doubt that the new climate of consultation and co-operation with the provinces, including Quebec, has contributed to this very positive assessment of the economic outlook for Quebec. Also, the leadership demonstrated by our Government in the area of job creation and economic expertise could only contribute to this most positive assessment of our economic outlook. Mr. Speaker, such optimism
Oral Questions
contrasts dramatically with the despair and dismay which liberal policies used to arouse not only among business people, but also among Canadians generally.


Mr. Speaker, during yesterday's Question Period the Government demonstrated the regressive and "look at the past" attitude which has shamefully characterized its handling of the Japanese Canadian redress issue.
During his days as Opposition Leader and throughout the 1984 campaign, the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) spoke of the need to settle this issue quickly. However, once in office, not only did his commitments quickly dissolve, but he refused to meet or acknowledge the National Association of Japanese Canadians. To make matters worse, his former Multicultural-ism Minister abruptly cut off talks with the association and attempted to proceed unilaterally. Now the present Minister refuses to honour his promise to negotiate, preferring instead to play up the differences which exist in any national issue. All these manoeuvres border on moral dishonesty.
We often criticize the United States on the question of minority rights. However, on the issue of redress 1 urge the Prime Minister to weigh the steps being launched in the U.S., to recall the promises he made, to consider his failure to live up to these expectations, and then to ask himself if his actions have been fair, honorable, and courageous.
This matter requires more sensitivity and seriousness rather than simply issuing a Prime Minister's Office press release stating that Mila Mulroney will be visiting the ethnocultural communities. We need action, and we need it now.


My
question is for the Minister of Finance. He knows now that his colleague, the Minister of State for Finance, has been publicly embarrassed over a crisis rapidly developing in our insurance industry across the country. She has now reluctantly agreed today to a meeting with the Ontario Minister of Consumer and Commercial Relations on the issue. Since my colleague, the Member of Parliament for Saint Leonard-Anjou, raised this matter on November 4 in this House, both the Minister of State for Finance and the Minister of Consumer and Corpo-

January 17, 1986
Oral Questions
rate Affairs have maintained that this issue was primarily provincial.
The Minister of Finance knows, having responsibility for this, that over two-thirds of the insurance companies registered in Ontario are federally licensed. Will he take personal cognizance of this matter, and respond to what is becoming a crisis in terms of liability and coverage?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of State for Finance stated very clearly that this was a matter of some concern to her and something that she was following very closely. She also drew the distinction between the responsibilities of the province, which is in the area of contract law, which the Leader of the Opposition, who is a lawyer, does understand, I am sure, and the role of the federal Government which is involved with solvency and the capital basis of these companies.
It is on that basis that she is meeting with the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs in the Province of Ontario today, not reluctantly as the Hon. Member tried to imply with his question, but because she is demonstrating through this meeting her very real concern for the problem.


would like to put a supplementary to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will know that his Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs was wrong when he said he did not have the power to investigate rising and escalating insurance rates. He should know that under Section 8 of the Combines Investigation Act the Minister does have that power. Will he undertake that the Government, through that Minister, will launch an inquiry immediately into the escalating insurance rates and the failure and inability of many small businesses to get any coverage at all?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, we are quite concerned, as the Minister of State for Finance has said on a number of occasions, about how this problem has developed, but the thrust of the Leader of the Opposition's question is that this is simply a Canadian problem. It is a world-wide problem that must be dealt with within the international context as well. It is also a North American problem in that there is not enough distinction, in our judgment, between what is happening in the United States and what is happening in Canada. This is something that is being reviewed carefully by the Minister, and that will be one of the subjects of her meeting with the Ontario Minister today.


The
Government has been way behind this issue. Since November 4 until yesterday the Minister of State for Finance completely insisted that this was a provincial problem. The Minister of
Finance now says it is a national and international problem. He is finally coming to grips with the situation. Hundreds of small businesses, little league hockey teams, and day care centres are facing increases and escalation of rates by 500 per cent, 600 per cent, and up to 1,000 per cent. Will the Minister undertake to get his act together and get on top of this issue?


This selfrighteous indignation by the Leader of the Opposition does not fool anyone. The Minister of State for Finance has indicated very clearly her concern and her desire to deal with this issue. That is what she has said in the House.


She doesn't understand it.


The Hon. Member doesn't know enough about understanding to be able to make that comment.


Hear, hear!


The issue before us which the Right Hon. Member is addressing is the jurisdictions of the provinces and the federal Government. He would be the first to be jumping out of his seat if we had transgressed by moving into the provincial side. That is why we are taking care in the handling of this issue.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also directed to the Minister of Finance. Quite simply: Since the Minister of State for Fitness and Amateur Sport is taking steps to try and obtain insurance coverage for the Canadian ski team, could the Minister of Finance inform the House today whether he can get insurance coverage for the boys and girls who play hockey in our arenas across Canada and who have no insurance? Can you do something about this?


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate very much the concern the Hon. Member expresses and this is a concern that we on this side of the House share. However, this is something that has to be dealt with very carefully, recognizing, as I indicated in my previous response, the jurisdiction of the provincial Governments working with the federal Government in the area in which the federal Government has jurisdiction. As the Minister of State for Amateur Sport as well as the Minister of State for Finance have indicated in the House, we are working to try to deal with this problem as it affects these community groups to which the Hon. Member has referred.
January 17, 1986


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is directed to the Minister of National Health and Welfare. Thousands of day-care centres are facing the same situation as our boys and girls who play hockey. Could the Minister, in his capacity as Minister of National Health and Welfare, intervene in this matter and try and get insurance coverage for our nursery schools and day-care centres which have no insurance coverage and are very important to mothers with children?


Mr. Speaker, the concern that the Hon. Member expresses is a valid one. The point that the Minister of Finance has made and the activities undertaken by my colleagues in the Cabinet are, I believe, sufficient evidence of the seriousness with which the Government takes this issue and the work that is being done on it.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is aware that before Christmas the business of the House had actually ground to a halt because of the Government's refusal to do a complete analysis of the de Havilland deal. He is also aware that at the last moment the Government did promise the opportunity for a complete analysis of all the details. As a result, business continued with co-operation between all Parties. Does the Government of Canada still stand by that deal?


Mr. Speaker, since I was involved in the discussions with respect to the de Havilland matter and also negotiated with the House Leader of the NDP with respect to this matter, let me say this. My colleague, the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion, said in the last week of the sitting of the House that he was quite prepared to meet with the committee to provide documentation and answer all questions. That commitment was made and has been carried out. The Minister appeared last night and subjected himself to questioning. He produced documents well in advance of the committee hearing.
I understand that the Steering Committee is meeting again later on this day and will, after hearing the Minister, look at what further hearings are appropriate. I think the Leader of the New Democratic Party should possibly wait to see what happens with respect to that meeting before pursuing the matter further.
Oral Questions HEARING OF WITNESSES


Mr. Speaker, the details of that committee meeting and the de Havilland issue itself are of very great importance. However, the question I am asking goes beyond that. It affects all the other business of the House in terms of the commitment made by the Government before Christmas.
Since, as a means of implementing the commitment to what the Minister himself called a full discussion, there was a unanimous agreement on the part of all parties represented on the Steering Committee to hear 14 witnesses regarding the de Havilland case and since the majority, the Conservative members, unanimously voted against the proposal in the full committee, led by a motion moved by the Chairman of the Conservative caucus, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister believe that a motion that curtails the hearing of people opposed to the deal is consistent with the Government's promise?


Order, please. May 1 ask the Hon. Member to rephrase his question, please? I think he is now asking a question with regard to committee procedure. He knows he cannot do that.


Mr. Speaker, 1 appreciate the rule on that point. I hope Your Honour appreciates the implications, beyond the details of this committee, for the workings of this House.
Does the Prime Minister believe, consistent with the commitment made by the Government, which was entered into in order to obtain co-operation for the discussion of all Bills-not just the de Havilland matter-that it is essential to hear views, in committe, which are opposed to the Government's own decision? Yes or no. That is the question.


Mr. Speaker, I suppose the undertaking to which my hon. friend refers is the statement made on December 19, 1985, as reported at page 9617 of Hansard. It was a statement made by the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion in which he said:
1 am sure that the Hon. Member, and other Hon. Members, will probably be pleased to hear that I certainly have no objection, and neither do my colleagues ... to this matter being considered at the appropriate time by a comittee of this House, at which time the information, other than that which may have some commercial sensitivity, can be put before a committee for full discussion.
There is nothing which has transpired which is inconsistent with that in any way.


Hear, hear!


A complete reversal! You are not going to see any business done in this House. Do you understand that? Do you understand that business will grind to a halt? You watch-just watch.


Order, please.


Socialist blackmail. It's pathetic.


You watch.

January 17, 1986
Oral Questions


Get him a towel.


Look at the order.


Order, please. The Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan).


Mr. Speaker, my question is on the same subject and it is also directed to the Prime Minister. Members of the Government, the President of the Treasury Board, and the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion have insisted day after day that the deal is a good one, that it will stand scrutiny, and that it deserves support.


Hear, hear!


At the same, whipped by the Chairman of Caucus, they cancelled a list of outside objective witnesses who should be heard and to which the all-party steering committee had formerly agreed.


Question.


If the deal is a good one, will the Prime Minister encourage members of his caucus to support the reinstatement of that list at 12.30 today?


The question clearly deals with matters which are before the committee.


No.


It is the position of the Prime Minister we want to hear.


Order, please. May I invite the Hon. Member for York Centre to phrase his concern separately from a reference to the committee?


How can the Prime Minister seriously expect the people of Canada to believe that this deal is really a good one if he will not let the Members of Parliament look at it?


Mr. Speaker, the premise in the Hon. Member's question is simply incorrect. We are going further than any previous Government would have gone with respect to this type of transaction. The Minister is prepared to appear before the committee. I took the advice, and was quite prepared, notwithstanding the fact that committees cease to exist at the end of every year and have to be restructured, to extend-


We want a full disclosure.


What are you hiding? What are you afraid of?


What are you afraid of?


-the committee over until this year so that it could in fact deal with this matter-


Parliamentary reform, ha, ha!


Shush!


-and hear from the Minister and look at all the documents.


It is the witnesses. What are you afraid of?


The steering committee will meet to consider witnesses to be brought before the committee.


They already did.


We are happy with this deal. It is good for Canada. We are quite happy to have witnesses come and comment on it. We are not afraid of the deal; we are happy with it.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I ask this: Given the commitment to open government, will the Government not encourage the standing committee and its members to hold full hearings and not just see the documents which the Minister is willing to reveal and question him for a limited period of two hours?


Mr. Speaker, all I can say is that our members appear as Private Members on these committees.


Oh, oh!


Come on, who are you kidding?


They are not under any direction-


Oh, oh!


Obviously, the Opposition give directions as to the way in which their members are going to operate. We do not operate that way on our side. We are proud of our Private Members' judgment and integrity with respect to the committee system in this House.


Big deal.


The Hon. Member should do his job, go to the Steering Committee and consider and put forward suggestions to the whole committee-


I already did that. It's been cancelled.


It is not up to the Steering Committee to decide these matters. Let the Steering Committee make recommendations to the whole committee-


They did.

January 17, 1986


The whole committee dealt with that. All I am saying is let them go back to the Steering Committee, come up with their suggestions, and I am sure the Committee will give it the proper attention.


Mr. Speaker, this is a very serious matter which, of course, touches on the integrity of the Government, its credibility, and its ability to deliver on promises made during negotiations between the Parties.
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. On December 19 the Deputy Prime Minister said in response to my question, when I sought an assurance that we would have an opportunity to question the various parties involved and look at the documents before the deal was made, and I quote from Hansard at page 9618:
Mr. Speaker, if that is the wish of the House, and if the Hon. Member would like me to sign today's "blues" for him, I would be happy to do that.
Is the Government prepared to deliver on that commitment to hear the various parties involved, including parties who may be critical of the deal?


Mr. Speaker, what the Hon. Member conveniently left out of that lengthy preamble to his question was my answer to the first question he put to me on that day. He asked if we would undertake "to permit a committee", give it a mandate and look at the deal-meaning the de Havilland deal-"early in January, and possibly before the House returns", and so on. My answer was:
-I see no inconsistency with his willingness-
That is the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion.
-to inform a committee of the House and the statements which have been made by the President of the Treasury Board. He now tells us-
That is the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion.
-that the closing may well be delayed until the end of January. Assuming our return here on January 13, there is that period of time between January 13 and the end of January to hold committee hearings. I can see no reason why those-
That is, committee hearings.
-cannot be arranged through the usual machinery of Parliament.
Why do the opposition Members not follow the suggestion of the Government House Leader and allow that usual machinery of Parliament to operate-


We did, and you broke it.


What are you afraid of?


-by sending the matter to the Steering Committee to bring back a report to the full committee?


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Prime Minister. It
Oral Questions
has been 45 days now since we requested full hearings on the de Havilland affair. Is the Government prepared to honour the commitment made by the Deputy Prime Minister on December 19 when he assured me that the various parties concerned with de Havilland, including some who might be critical, would be heard by a committee of this House? Will you honour that commitment, yes or no?


Mr. Speaker, what the hon. gentleman has said in the preamble to his question, purporting to quote what I said on December 19, is utterly and wholly false.


Oh, oh!


It's right here in Hansard.


Read it.


What I have said I have just read from Hansard at page 9618, and it is there for all with any intelligence to read-


What are you afraid of?


-and that even includes the Hon. Member-


What are you afraid of, Erik? What are you hiding? What kind of cover-up is this?


Order, please.


I am prepared, as the House Leader has said, to allow the usual machinery of Parliament to work. All the Opposition has to do-


You sabotaged it.


-is to get that Steering Committee to report to the full committee as requested-


We did. You sabotaged it.


-and it will happen. The commitment is there.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Government House Leader-I should say, the Deputy Prime Minister.


The same thing.


Perhaps that is the same thing the way things are going in the House.


That's for sure.


With respect to page 9618 of Hansard, in addition to what he read from that page, did the Deputy Prime Minister not also say, with reference to the request for full committee hearings:

Oral Questions
Mr. Speaker, if that is the wish of the House, and if the Hon. Member would like me to sign today's "blues" for him, I would be happy to do that.
Did he not say that as well? And why does he not stick to that and make sure we have full hearings on this important issue? What is he trying to hide?


I really can't see an issue here.


Oh, oh!


What we said, we are doing. The Minister for Regional Industrial Expansion has said he will come to the committee. He said he will tell committee members the entire details of the deal, with the exception of those details which might be commercially sensitive. And even those Hon. Members opposite would understand that kind of limitation. Why don't they allow the usual parliamentary machinery to work-


We did.


Why don't you back-track now?


- instead of raising these spurious issues on the floor of the House of Commons merely to create a political issue for themselves?


They are not spurious.


Why don't the House Leaders get to work? That is what 1 suggested on December 19, that the House Leaders get together-


Oh, oh!


-and get the machinery of Parliament working.


Hear, hear!


Order, please. Could questions and answers both be heard?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre asked on December 19 if we could "have a commitment given here in the House today that a committee of the House of Commons will, in fact, examine the Boeing purchase of de Havilland before the deal is made final?" He was not talking about just hearing from the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion. Does the Deputy Prime Minister not recall that he replied, and I quote:
Mr. Speaker, if that is the wish of the House-
So if we are speaking of "spurious" words, why does he not withdraw his spurious words and live up to his commitment on behalf of the Government? Again, I ask him why he is trying to squelch full discussion of this deal by Members of Parliament? What is he afraid of?


Hear, hear!


Bravo!


Mr. Speaker, I really cannot understand why the Opposition is continually distorting-


That's one of your troubles. You don't understand.


It is a crock of rhubarb that we are in trouble. Here they tell us that we are not co-operating, that we are hiding something from the committee-[DOT]


You've been drinking too much sterilized water, Erik.


-and the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion spent three hours last night before that committee trying to inform committee members what the deal is all about. And the Opposition is objecting because-


You're covering up.


-we are appearing before the committee and telling them all about it.


My question is also directed to the Deputy Prime Minister. We took the advice of the Deputy Prime Minister and we did in fact meet and we reached an agreement to pass certain legislation as a result of a commitment made by the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion. Does the Deputy Prime Minister think it reasonable that when a Steering Committee recommends-unanimously recommends, as I understand it-that a list of witnesses should be heard by the committee, that the Conservative Members should come together as one force to defeat that recommendation?


Mr. Speaker, I think there are some very glaring errors in the preamble to the question put by the Hon. Member.


Oh?


First, he presumes somehow that there is no responsibility on the part of the committee to consider its own agenda. Clearly, a Steering Committee is not there to determine an agenda but rather to present it to a committee.


Oh, what a line.


How phoney.


All I say to the Hon. Member is that this process is ongoing, and if the Hon. Member wants to allow his Members to come forward to the Steering Committee in order to discuss a list of witnesses, he is going to find out that this process can work. But it is not for him to draw a conclusion because he thinks that somehow his list is not the one which is
January 17, 1986

acceptable, that it should be completely wrong. If members of the committee decide there should be a list which is reasonable, and allows the matter to be fully discussed-


Order, please.


-it is up to the committee. It's not a matter of concern to this House.


Order, please. I will listen to a supplementary question but we are getting very close-and the Hon. Member knows it-to questions relating to committee procedure. I ask the Hon. Member to stay away from that subject, please.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have no intention of asking anything about committee procedure.


Is the Government prepared to live up to the commitment which was made by the Deputy Prime Minister, subsequent to a commitment made by the Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion, in an effort made prior to the December recess which resulted in my committing us to pass certain legislation in advance of the Christmas break? Is the Government now prepared to live up to the commitment it made then to allow a proper hearing of all of the necessary withnesses in order to look into the de Havilland deal?


Mr. Speaker, there has never been any question but that we will live up to our commitments. We always do, and intend to do so in this case. I would suggest to the Hon. Member that he allow the process to work rather than drawing red herrings into this particular issue.


You didn't do it last night.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Right Hon. Prime Minister.
Mr. Prime Minister, this morning, an American study contradicted the federal Government according to whom Quebec would have to import gasoline.
Another study, published by Statistics Canada, claims that Quebec has a lack of refining capacity.
I have here a third study by the Quebec Department of Energy which clearly indicates there is a shortage of refinery capacity in Quebec.
Oral Questions
Will the Prime Minister undertake to make the O'Farrell Report public?


Mr. Speaker, as I said in reply to a question by a New Democratic Party Member a few days ago, there is a host of reports on this kind of issue, and sometimes their conclusions do not coincide. That is not unusual.
I also mentioned that the Minister would produce the data he has at the appropriate time.


Mr. Speaker, does the Prime Minister agree that the O'Farrell Report will be an important consideration in the Lavalin-Ultramar transaction, since the important thing is not only to save jobs in Quebec but to save the Quebec consumer as well?
Furthermore, doesn't the Prime Minister believe it is important to publish the O'Farrell Report and the statistics of the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources, so that Canadians will know what the real figures are and Ultramar can sell the entire Gulf refinery to Lavalin Inc.?


Mr. Speaker, despite the fact that Montreal East has had three refineries close down while the party it supported was in power, we see our responsibility as follows: First of all, to provide for as many jobs as possible, and second, to ensure that Quebecers will continue to pay competitive prices. And we are succeeding, at least we hope so, in both areas.
As far as the transaction itself is concerned, since this is a matter initiated by the private sector, we cannot give any guarantees, but we are very busy working with the parties concerned in order to save as many jobs as possible.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct my question to the Right Hon. the Prime Minister.
Is the Prime Minister aware that a recent study done by Oil Buyers Guide-an independent North American organization-reveals that, without the Gulf refinery, Quebec's daily shortage of refined products will amount to 56,000 barrels?
What does the Prime Minister intend to do to prevent Quebecers from being ripped off as a result of such undercapacity while a refinery is standing idle?


Obviously, Mr. Speaker, that is the same question. I give him the same assurance: the Canadian Government will protect the interests of Quebec consumers at all times.

January 17, 1986
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, this is the sixth report that shows about a fifty thousand barrel per day deficit. There is O'Farrell, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, Statistics Canada, the Quebec Government, Gaz metropolitan, and now the Oil Buyer's Guide. Will the Prime Minister take action under the Canadian Combines Investigation Act to protect the jobs of the people of Montreal and the oil supply of the people of Quebec?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend will know that in response to a question from one of his colleagues in the last number of days I responded to that fully and have given those assurances.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Agriculture. This morning details of the $150 million Prairie Crop Disaster Assistance Program were released. The application form seems to suggest that a producer must enrol in crop insurance in the future. Is the undertaking to join crop insurance a condition precedent to receiving pay-out under this plan and, if so, why?


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the Hon. Member's question. Due to the importance of maintaining and promoting crop insurance all across the country, I hoped as Minister of Agriculture to be in a position to make that conditional. Indeed, there have been representations by provinces, farmers and farm organizations that I take that action. However, I am advised that indeed I do not have the legal authority to make it necessary.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct my question to the chairman of the Committee on Regional Economic Expansion, the Hon. Member for Laval.
I would like to ask him whether he or his committee members have been in touch with Ministers or parliamentary secretaries in an attempt to force the committee to reverse the decision and disregard the commitment to hear witnesses today.


I am only chairing the committee.
I am not participating in two discussions about committee strategy, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, here is my question to the committee chairman: I want to know whether Ministers or parliamentary secretaries have made representations to the committee chairman with a view to putting off the appearance of witnesses?


Order, please. The Hon. Member may have a question for the Government about the Government's action, but that question goes beyond the procedural questions that are appropriate for a chairman. The Hon. Member may wish to put a question to the Government along the same lines, if he wishes.


Mr. Speaker, we have the right to ask questions. The chairman of the Conservative caucus arrived with a four-page text-


Order. I have tried to signal to the Hon. Member how he may wish to put his question. However, if he does not wish to-


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask his question-


Sit down.


Order. Under the circumstances I think I must move on. The Hon. Member for Prince Albert.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister will be aware that the United States is spending $2 billion in giving away one bushel of wheat for each two or three bushels bought by certain countries. The European Economic Community has a similar program.
Will the Minister tell the House what the Government is doing to counter these unfair subsidy practices that have been put in place by the United States and the EEC?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member will know that the U.S. Secretary of
January 17, 1986

Agriculture visited us yesterday. My colleague, the Minister in charge of the Canadian Wheat Board, and I had a very productive and useful meeting with the Secretary of Agriculture. Indeed, we were very pleased and encouraged to some degree that changes in the Farm Bill would indicate there would be very significant acreage reductions. This would have a very significant impact on the volumes of grain produced by the United States.
In addition, there is a very important component in the U.S. farm Bill which will revert a fair amount of crop land back into grasslands. Of course this will have the end result of reducing volumes. It is somewhat premature to identify the impact of this.


Mr. Speaker, my question concerned the past incentive programs but I would like to follow up on that response because the United States is putting $52 billion into farm commodity subsidies during the next three years. This will contribute to the collapse of commodity prices all over the world.


Order, please. A supplementary question.


What effect will this have on Canadian grain prices and what does the Government intend to do about that $52 billion that is being poured into the U.S. farm market as subsidies?


Mr. Speaker, I am sure that the Hon. Member will recognize we regard this very seriously. Naturally, I assume he would accept the fact that we cannot compete against the U.S. Treasury. However, we must recognize that the mid to long-term goal of the U.S. program is to reduce the excess stock in the international market-place. I think we should at least applaud the U.S. direction rather than what the EEC is trying to do.


Oral Questions
Hear, hear!


We have-


Now you know why you don't get supplementary questions.


Question Period is to ask questions, jerk.


If I might respond to the Hon. Member, our most recent expenditure projections indicate we should come in just under the level we set. However, the revenue projection will be somewhat on the low side primarily because of a shortfall in corporate revenues. However, we expect that the main impact on the deficit because of changes we made in the May Budget will be felt in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year, which we are in right now. So there is every indication we will be very close to the projection I set out in the May Budget.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. I have here a copy of the submission presented by the Director of Investigations before the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission of Canada on that part of the transaction concerning Petro-Canada's purchase of Gulfs Western Canada assets. It was made public during the public hearings. Will the Prime Minister assure us that, with respect to the other part of the transaction concerning Gulfs assets, the one coveted by Ultramar, the same openness will preside? Will the Director of Investigations have an opportunity to give evidence publicly before the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission of Canada? Will his report be made public at that time before the Commission?


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance and is prompted by press reports that the Government has somehow been knocked off its deficit reduction target because of a recent rise in interest rates and widespread concern about the dollar. Is the Government going to be able to meet its deficit target as outlined by the Minister last May?


Thank him for the question.


Thank you very much, Mr. Speaker. It is nice to get a substantive question.


I have not considered the issue, but I will be pleased to do so and see what was done in similar circumstances in the past under other governments. I will be pleased to look at the issue on the basis of that, as to the requirements, and I will report to my hon. friend.


I have a supplementary, Mr. Speaker. I can assure the Prime Minister that normally hearings are public, and I think the Prime Minister-I am

Oral Questions
asking him the question-if he wants to be sure that his is an open government, will take it upon himself to ensure that the hearings held by the Restrictive Trade Practices Commission of Canada are public.


Of course, I gladly accept my hon. friend's comments. I do not have his seniority in this House, although we are approximately of the same age, but I remember, for instance, that when I was Leader of the Opposition, I asked the Liberal Government for a parliamentary investigation into the whole aerospace issue in Canada, including Canadair and de Havilland, and the answer was no.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the President of the Treasury Board. It concerns the Government's very misguided policy of not requiring a clean air environment for its own employees in the workplace. Would the Minister not agree that this is a very misguided policy which ought now to be changed? Specifically, will he undertake not to appeal the decision in the Peter Wilson case where a tribunal ruled that employees have the right to clean air in the workplace?


A one-issue lady.


Mr. Speaker, I must point out to my hon. colleague that we have indeed come to an agreement with the unions to ensure that all employees will be able to work in a healthy environment. Certain issues raised by a decision made by an administrative board seem to go much further in some of their implications. We find these conclusions questionable, but I can assure my honourable colleague that this Government and the Treasury Board want all our employees to work in a healthy environment.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the Minister of Health. Would he not agree that instead of making pious declarations, as the Minister just did on this subject, it is time to bring in legislation which we need to provide guarantees so that all employees under federal jurisdiction will have clean air in the workplace?


Mr. Speaker, this Government has not restricted itself to the kind of statements the Hon. Member has made. For example,
January 17, 1986
as of January 1 of this year my own Department has moved in that direction largely because of the co-operation of the employees of the Department. There are other Departments looking at this issue. I think the method the President of the Treasury Board is using, namely, co-operation with the unions and workers involved in moving toward what is a very laudable objective, makes more sense than passing edicts and other such measures.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Science and Technology. It concerns the budget of the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council. This week the Minister asked Canadians to be patient, while the Council says that the budget cuts will be more dramatic than anyone in the scientific community anticipated. Now that our worst fears have been confirmed, will the Minister end the anxiety for thousands of researchers and students who count on that Council for their livelihood and careers, and announce his plans immediately?


Mr. Speaker, I would very much like to announce the plan immediately because 1 am so full of excitement and enthusiasm about it.


We can see that.


The problem is that the science community has also requested that we bring greater consistency and predictability to Government commitments. That has caused a little bit of a delay which is, incidentally, not as long as any of the delays experienced in previous years which were caused by the former Government.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister says a little bit of a delay. This Government has been in office for 17 long months and we still do not have a science policy for this country.


Oh, oh!


You were there 16 years.


Order, please. Supplementary question.


Where is the message of continuity and support for the existing scientists, some of whom are already leaving this country, and for the young people who may no longer be considering a career in research because of the Government's policies? How much longer do they have to wait?


January 17, 1986


Mr. Speaker, I am seized with two problems. One is to arrive at a formula which will suit us for the rest of the fiscal year. The second is then to get back to the track we established in 1979, namely, working out a five-year program and a strategy which was squandered by the Hon. Member's Government which caused one year's delay. That I will be able to announce in due course.


Mr. Speaker, The New York Times reported yesterday that Canada and Italy have asked to join the Group of Five. A spokesman for the Group of Five, speaking in Paris, said that the applications will probably not be accepted. The quote is:
We want members with real governments.
Does the Minister of Finance regard this as an insurmountable obstacle to Canada obtaining membership in that exclusive 