[ Translation]
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106(8), I have the honour to table in both official languages the Government's response to 25 petitions.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present the second report of the Standing Committee on Finance and Economic Affairs, in both official languages.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


Mr. Speaker, I would like to designate tomorrow as an allotted day.


Mr. Speaker, there have been consultations between the Parties with respect to the first item of business to be considered today under Orders of the Day, Bill C-96. I think you will find there is unanimous consent to accept an amendment to the motion. The agreement between the Parties is that this Bill would be referred to the legislative committee now seized of Bill C-92.


94 and 92.


They are seized of C-92.


They are seized of C-92. We are now considering C-94. If that is clear, Sir, then congratulations.


It sounds like Monday morning bingo.


Mr. Speaker, the latter part of that is correct, if I understood it. The problem I raise again is that tomorrow is an allotted day. Presumably there will be a Private Members' hour. I am most eager to find a way to resolve the ongoing problem of Private Members' hour and what happens to the sequence. I would very much like if, together with my two colleagues, we might spend some time today trying to find a satisfactory solution.


Mr. Speaker, that certainly is something I think we should try and address again today. There are quite a number of Bills which have accumulated and I think we can resolve it, but we will meet later on and try and bring something to the House which meets with the satisfaction of all Members.


I take it there is unanimous consent for the introduction of the motion that the order later this day be amended to read that the matter be sent to the same legislative committee now seized of Bill C-92?


Agreed.


Shall the motion carry?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I ask that all questions be allowed to stand.


Is it agreed?


Agreed.

May 26, 1986
Atlantic Accord


that Bill C-94, an Act to implement an agreement between the Government of Canada and the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador on offshore petroleum resource management and revenue sharing and to make related and consequential amendments, be read the second time and referred to a legislative committee.


Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased and honoured to speak to the House on second reading of the Atlantic Accord Implementation Bill. Second reading and the legislative work that goes on towards implementing the Accord can be compared with getting your pilot's licence. I am a private pilot and the greatest thrill was my first solo flight. Getting the licence was second. I think we can say the same thing about this legislation. The great thrill, the excitement, the euphoria, came when the Atlantic Accord was signed. Now we have to get down to the nitty-gritty and get this legislation through to implement what has been signed.
This historical agreement was signed by the Government of Canada and the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador on February 11, 1985. It was a truly historic occasion which inspired the Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador to say that his province had finally become an equal partner in Confederation. This Accord represents the most important agreement reached between Ottawa and St. John's since Newfoundland and Labrador entered Confederation 37 years ago. It means the people of Newfoundland and Labrador will share in the development of and revenues from their offshore oil and gas resources. It means that the people of Newfoundland and Labrador will have a greater degree of influence in the social, political and economic affairs of Canada. The greatest potential by-product of the Accord could be the restoration of national unity itself. We have done what the Liberals have not been able to do; we have opened a long neglected door that allows the people of Newfoundland and Labrador to become full partners in the economic life of the country.
[DOT] (mo)
The Prime Minister of Canada (Mr. Mulroney) and the Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador were able to agree on what should have been the genuine rights of that province for a very long time. The failure to reach agreement with Newfoundland and Labrador was symptomatic of what was wrong with the previous Government's energy policy. It was a policy dictated from Ottawa without regard for the rights and needs of the provinces and the oil and gas industry.
The Accord will ensure that oil and gas development will provide full social and economic benefits to Canada and, particularly, to Newfoundland and Labrador. The Accord will provide a stable and permanent management regime that recognizes the equality of the federal and provincial Governments in the development of offshore resources. It will provide a clear regulatory regime for industry, welcome news indeed after five years of a Liberal energy policy that inspired very little fairness. The Atlantic Accord will encourage increased energy security and economic benefits for the country as a whole. It will provide rigorous protection of the environment, and Newfoundland and Labrador's all important fishing industry. The Accord will also provide improved safety in offshore work.
The Atlantic Accord legislation encompasses two major policy initiatives. It implements the Atlantic Accord agreement and incorporates the Canada Petroleum Resources Act. The Canadian Petroleum Resources Act, that we debated recently in the House, replaces the Canada Oil and Gas Act of 1982, and includes an amended Oil and Gas Production and Conservation Act.
One important feature of the Accord must be underlined. It will provide for revenue sharing on the same basis as if these resources were on land. This provision shows that this Government is serious about fairness, equality and opportunity. It shows that we intended to negotiate with the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador. We did not merely legislate with a greedy eye on potential revenue. It shows that we were serious when we said that the people of Newfoundland and Labrador should have greater control over their own destiny. We have sealed this commitment with the creation of a strong, independent, and impartial board, the Canada-Newfoundland Offshore Petroleum Board, which will oversee oil and gas activity off the province's coast. The board will provide local and regional administrative guidance to the development of a resource that is national and international in its scope and importance.
The board is composed of six members, and a chairman, who are appointed jointly by the Government of Canada and the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador. Members of the board are not public servants of either Governments. All appointments under the Accord have been made jointly by the two levels of Government. There are no "we" and they divisions that mark the attitude of the previous Government.
I see the Hon. Member for Cape Breton-The Sydneys (Mr. MacLellan) over there smiling. I am reading a very interesting book right now, "The One-Eyed Jacks", which is reviewing the current Prime Minister and the previous Prime Ministers. It is interesting to read in there the style of the previous Government and how it enjoyed conflicts. Its leader at the time enjoyed the "we" and "they" attitudes of federal-provincial relationships. We are trying to put an end to that, because I think it is all "we". We have to work together in this country, and this Accord probably speaks most clearly of that co-operation.
May 26, 1986

On October 17, 1985, the chairman and two vice-chairman were appointed to the board. On January 6, 1986, the board and staff assumed the operational responsibilities previously assigned to the Canada Oil and Gas Lands administration, and the Newfoundland and Labrador Petroleum Directorate. On January 27, 1986, the appointments of the remaining board members were made.
When the Atlantic Accord becomes law the board will assume full responsibility for managing oil and gas activity off Newfoundland. The board will be responsible for such measures as the adminsitration of the issuance of exploration rights, good oil field practices, the granting of production licences and approval of development and benefit plans, the collection of royalties, and recommending amendments to the legislation and regulations of the Atlantic Accord. The board will also have emergency powers where and when required.
The joint management of the offshore Newfoundland development is built on sensible and sound principles. Joint management will be achieved through the independence of the board. This independence is not without checks and balances. Under the terms of the Accord the two levels of Government will be able to provide direction to the board and be able to veto policies, if required. The board will ensure that the development of the offshore resources will be fair to Newfoundlanders, to the people of Canada and, of course, to the oil and gas industry.
The Atlantic Accord implementation Bill confirms our commitment that the province will be able to establish and collect resource revenues as if they were on land. Newfoundland and Labrador will receive the proceeds from royalties, provincial corporate income taxes, sales taxes, bonus payments, rentals and fees, and other forms of provincial revenues and taxes that may be established.
The Bill establishes in law the Canada-Newfoundland offshore development fund with grants totalling $300 million. Seventy-five cent of this $300 million will come from the federal treasury and 25 per cent from the provincial treasury. The development fund will enable the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador to develop the infrastructure to meet the demands of oil and gas development and to capture the economic benefits of that development.
On January 27, 1986, the first four projects under the Canada-Newfoundland offshore development fund were approved in principle. Funding for these projects will be available when the implementation legislation is passed. It is important that this legislation be passed as expeditiously as possible so these funds can flow to Newfoundland for these development projects. Subsequent projects under the Canada-Newfoundland offshore development fund will continue to be approved jointly by the federal and provincial energy Minsit-ers.
Another feature of the Atlantic Accord is the equalization offset payment formula that was developed to ensure that there will not be a dollar-for-dollar loss of equalization
Atlantic Accord
payments as a result of offshore revenues. Beginning in the first year of production Newfoundland and Labrador will receive offset payments from the federal Government that are equal to 90 per cent of the year's reduction in equalization payments. Starting in the fifth year of production the offset rate will be reduced by 10 per cent for each subsequent year. We feel this is a very important part of the Bill, to ensure that Newfoundland is not just cut off in year one from equalization payments because of the new revenues being derived from the offshore. In fact, this formula we feel is very fair, as do the people of Newfoundland.
One important concern expressed in the Bill is the protection of Newfoundland's vital offshore fishing industry.
This Bill provides for the same environmental protection as on all frontier lands, by incorporating the environmental protection provisions of the federal Oil and Gas Production and Conservation Act. This is very imporant. In the event that something happens in the offshore, this legislation includes an oil pollution compensation regime that ensures financial compensation to fishermen and others for any damages from oil spills and debris. The board will promote and monitor industry-sponsored fishermen's compensation policies in the case of non-attributable damages to the fishery.
We have established a committee to monitor the provisions of the pollution and fisheries compensation plan. This committee has representatives from federal and provincial Governments, from the petroleum industry and, probably most important, from the fishing industry.
I want to speak briefly about the Petroleum Resources Bill which provides the legislative framework for the Atlantic Accord. Bill C-94 incorporates the Canada Petroleum Resources Act which will ensure that the legal foundation for oil and gas interests will be the same in Newfoundland offshore areas as in the rest of Canada's frontier lands. The Canada Petroleum Resources Act will replace the existing Canada Oil and Gas Act with a simplified and fair set of rules designed to encourage frontier resource development. We have just completed second reading of the Bill and we hope that the legislative committee will start work on it soon. It introduces a simplified competitive system for issuing exploration rights based on a single criterion, one in which the best bid wins. This will ensure fair treatment of companies bidding for exploration rights.
The Bill requires a minimum of 50 per cent Canadian ownership in frontier projects but, unlike the flexible policy of the former Government, will be applied in a way that is not retroactive and confiscatory. It will look to the private sector to achieve the 50 per cent minimum ownership level.
The Canada Petroleum resources Bill is fair to provincial and territorial Governments and to all Canadians as resource owners. It is market responsive and sensitive to the concerns of companies operating in the high risk frontier regions.
13600

May 26, 1986
Atlantic Accord
Our Government has always believed that Canadians should participate fully in energy development. The Atlantic Accord and this Bill provide for fair and realistic Canadianization of a vital resource at Hiberia. They will also provide for ample returns on Canadian investment.
Declining world oil prices have created an uncertainty about high cost frontier oil projects such as Elibernia. I stress that we cannot let the apparent over-supply of oil blind us to the fact that those supplies will eventually decline. Canada's conventional oil reserves have been declining for years and they continue to decline. Domestic projects such as Hiberia will be needed to take up the slack. The alternative of increasing reliance on foreign sources of oil is unacceptable to the Government and, I believe, to the people of Canada. It is also unnecessary. We saw the result of relying too heavily on nonCanadian oil in the 1970s. Foreign interests manipulated supply in order to dramatically and suddenly increase the price. Canada and other countries scrambled to deal with the inflationary impact of higher prices. We scrambled to use oil more efficiently and to bring new domestic supplies on stream.
The current oil pricing and supply situation provides us with a brief breathing space to proceed with projects like Hibernia in an orderly manner. However, it is not the time to fall asleep at the switch.
The Government of Canada is currently discussing fiscal arrangements with companies developing Hiberia and with the Government of Newfoundland. Low oil prices make it more difficult to proceed, but I am confident that we will. I hope that we will soon approve a development plan and a Canada benefits plan for Hiberia because these are important steps in the process leading to production from Hiberia. These are signs of the Government's continuing commitment to the development of this valuable offshore resource.
During Hiberia's development phase alone it is estimated that $4.2 billion will be invested in the project. This will create some 14,500 person years of direct employment in Canada, of which about 9,500 person years of employment will be created in Newfoundland. The Newfoundland work will include the construction and outfitting of a gravity base structure for drilling platform and production facilities, the installation of subsea facilities and an articulated loading platform. It will also include the ongoing management of the project and onshore and offshore hook-up and commissioning.
I had the pleasure of visiting one of these rigs in Stavanger, Norway. Mobil, which is working on the Hibernia rig, made the arrangements for us to see this engineering feat that I found very difficult to conceive as a lay person. The work involved in this magnificent project is phenomenal and will provide very challenging and interesting jobs for Canadians in the near future.
Mobil Oil has explained that other required facilities, such as the fabrication of half of the modules and the construction of an ice-cleaning vessel, will occur in Canada. We can see that billions of dollars will be spent over the next decade to
develop new and secure technology and industry, which will create thousands of jobs for Newfoundland and Labrador and Canada as a whole.
There are already strong indications that our new frontier lands policy is a success. I refer the House to the results of a call for proposals which was issued in December, 1985 for exploration rights to three parcels of land on the Grand Banks. There was considerable competitive interest in these parcels of land, indicating that our policies are indeed working. In March, the industry showed its commitment with total bids of $4.75 million for the exploration rights during the initial terms of the three exploration agreements that have been awarded. Five companies were successful in the bids, which were evaluated by the Canada-Newfoundland offshore petroleum board. I hoped to be able to read the list of those on the board into the record. Perhaps I can do so later.
The Atlantic Accord represents one of the greatest events in our country's history. Indeed, when the Canada-Newfoundland offshore agreement was signed on February 11, 1985 Premier Peckford said: "History is being made today." It is hard to disagree with that statement.
At the same signing on February 11, 1985, the Prime Minister said:
-this agreement is about dignity for Newfoundland and Labrador, long a "have-not" province. Today marks the beginning of a new era-one that will enhance provincial economic well-being and collective accomplishment. This agreement reflects important Newfoundland values and accommodates legitimate provincial aspirations in a generous Canadian perspective.
It is hard to disagree with that statement.
It has been a pleasure for me to begin the debate on second reading of Bill C-94, a legislation enacting the famous Atlantic Accord. I look forward to this debate and would urge the House to pass Bill C-94 on second reading as expeditiously as possible so that we might study the Bill in more detail in our legislative committee.


Mr. Speaker, I was interested to hear of the Parliamentary Secretary's experience regarding to his flying. He stated it was not the licence which gave him the greatest thrill, it was his first solo. He related this to the the signing of the Atlantic Accord as the most important thrill, as far as he was concerned, and not this legislation. I would ask him to check because I think his propeller has fallen off.
This Bill relates to probably the greatest academic exercise in this House of Commons for quite some time, with very little practical relationship as far as the people of Newfoundland are concerned. The Parliamentary Secretary stated that this does away with the back-in provisions, the Canada Land provisions, that now all companies will be treated as one.
What is interesting about the Government is that it worries so darn much about foreign companies. That seems to be the whole thrust of this Act. The Government wants to do away
May 26, 1986

with the last vestiges of the National Energy Program. It is apopletic when it comes to the National Energy Program. It is not very good when it comes to replacing the NEP, but apopletic and determined when it comes to getting rid of it. As a result, the Government is not giving any consideration to what it is doing away with. Certainly it is doing away with the back-in provisions because it wants to help foreign companies.
When is the Government going to be concerned with Canadian companies? When is it going to be worried about the producers of cedar shakes and shingles? When is it going to be concerned about the attitude of the United States which looks upon Canada with the philosophy of "familiary breeds contempt"? That is what is happening to our relations with the United States right now, with the resultant devastation of our economy.
The Government talks about this Bill giving Newfoundlanders full partnership; they have 50 per cent. But as it stands right now, because of the policies of the Government, they have 50 per cent of nothing. On February 11, 1985, when this agreement was signed, Premier Peckford said, as the Parliamentary Secretary has stated:
This is a historic day for the people of Newfoundland and Labrador. At last we in Newfoundland will be treated as an equal partner in offshore development and will be in a position to establish and collect revenues in the same way as other oil and gas producing provinces of Canada.
What they have, as I have said, is 50 per cent of nothing. Because of the policies of the Government there is no move, no generation of activity which will bring on development in Hibernia. The Government is concerned that there is a downturn in the price. It is seizing on that downturn in oil and gas prices to do absolutely nothing.
Let us be realistic. Let us look at the state of the oil and gas industry today. Can we honestly believe that without the assistance and reasonable approach of the Government the oil companies are going to come forward right now? They are not Canadian companies, the Government has seen to that. The Government has driven the Canadian companies out of the offshore and other frontier areas.
The fact is that the Government did away with the Petroleum Incentives Program and with it many of the exploration activities which were taking place on the east coast. The fact is that on April 24 of this year Newfoundland businessmen got together for a news conference and called on the Government to step in and prevent a collapse of the offshore drilling activity. The fact is that 800 jobs have already been lost in the supply vessel sector and those who are working are only on short term contract. That is all they have to look forward to.
Mr. Ron Strong, the President of the Newfoundland Ocean Industries Association, warned of "dire consequences for the province's fledgling offshore industry if exploration is allowed to slow down", and it is now almost at a stop.
When new parcels of land were put up for bid on the Grand Banks it was not, as the Parliamentary Secretary said, a
Atlantic Accord
glorious and red letter day. The industry did not respond. It bid on only half of the seven parcels on which they had a right to call for proposals and offered only $4.75 million for exploration rights lasting four to five years. Most importantly, these companies are not committed to drill any wells during this leasing period. Had these lands been offered by the Canada Oil and Gas Lands Administration instead of by this new Canada-Newfoundland Offshore Petroleum Board, the Canada Oil and Gas Lands Administration would have received more bids with more moneys behind them and, most important, there would have been drilling commitments.
The Government has said before that this is a new age with no confrontation. There is no confrontaion between provinces, no confrontation with foreign countries, just a complete devastation of our economy. The fact is that we can have agreement if there is nothing going on.
The Canada-Newfoundland Offshore Petroleum Board is scaring the oil industry because it does not know who is in charge or what is going to happen if activity does take place. With the Canada Oil and Gas Administration, the industry at least knew who was in charge. It does not know that now and that is of vital concern.
We have a disastrous response to this new system. No one is bidding for the parcels of land. No one is committed to drilling. Where does this leave Newfoundlanders? We can use the term which was used before "freezing in the dark" under the new policies of the Government. Obviously the promised day for Newfoundlanders as a "have" province will not come to pass because of the oil and gas industry and because of the politics and policies of the federal Government, at least not by 1992 when we hoped it would happen.
It is easy to see that the Government and the people of Newfoundland are going to have 50 per cent of nothing. Even the provincial Finance Minister, Dr. John Collins, realizes that. Last April he warned that Newfoundlanders "should not depend on the proverbial pot of gold at the end of the rainbow as the saviour of the provincial economy". He was referring to the offshore activity and potential at Hibernia.
Instead of activity in exploration occurring in Newfoundland, we are going to see acquisitions, foreign companies being able to buy up Canadian companies, and we will see that, of course, in Alberta. We are going to see our small Canadian companies going bankrupt because of the low prices and because of the multinationals and Petro-Canada, our own Crown corporation, which is not only not paying the low posted price for oil and gas in Canada, but is paying $3 to $4 under the posted price. It is paying the spot price, if it is paying that. As a result, small producers are not even receiving the low price they should be receiving.
The Parliamentary Secretary has stated that we now must have 50 per cent ownership in the development stage in our offshore; we must have 50 per cent Canadian content. The

May 26, 1986
Atlantic Accord
figure of 50 per cent applies only to development and production and relates only to oil and gas found after March, 1982. Thus oil and gas which was discovered prior to March, 1982 does not require this 50 per cent Canadian content. The Government's policies are doing absolutely nothing for Canadian companies.
In a speech to an energy management conference the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources (Miss Carney) stated:
If we do not conserve our oil and gas resources-and if we do not find and develop new supplies-we'll end up back where we were in the 1970s. OPEC will dictate price and supply to us.
Yet the policies of the Government are moving completely away from the development of the resources in the offshore. It is moving away from further exploration of our offshore and other frontier areas. When the Minister says that we must find and development new resources I am in complete agreement. We must do that now; we cannot wait until the crisis has hit us. However, it cannot be achieved as a result of the policies that this Government has put in place. If the Minister meant what she said, then I want to know what she plans to do to ensure that new supplies will be developed. I am sure Newfoundlanders would also like to know.
We have come to a point past that of idle rhetoric. The economies of all the Atlantic provinces are being faced with devastation, and Newfoundland is suffering more than any. Newfoundlanders have heard about this idea of riches, and of this 50 per cent factor. They have heard that equalization will not be taken away right away, that they will be allowed to keep it, initially at least. That is great, but it is nothing but empty rhetoric unless something is done to give some meaning and focus to the actual development of the resources in Hibernia. This is something which has to be done. The Bill before us and the Atlantic Accord will mean nothing unless the Government has some type of resolve to do something about it. It will cost between $15 U.S. and $17 U.S. per barrel to develop this oil. Thus there has to be something done by the Government.
The Government has to look at this question, and it has to do so in conjunction with the Province of Newfoundland. The two parties must decide what will be done to bring these developments forward. The people of Newfoundland do not want just to hear about new legislation which the Government says will bring this end closer. Newfoundlanders know that it will not bring anything closer unless there is a resolve on behalf of both the federal Government and the provincial Government of Newfoundland. The federal Government must promote the development of Hibernia.
The uncertainties with respect to offshore development should not distract from the economic potential and significance of Hibernia. The long lead time to initial production, which is 1992 as stated by Mobil, may provide ample time for a price recovery in terms of oil and gas world wide. Between now and 1992 oil prices could go up and down three or four times. We should not freeze saying: "Let's not do anything
until we are absoltuely sure". With the unstable situation in the oil and gas field and the unstable situation in terms of OPEC, even if the price goes up how can we be sure it will stay up? It might come right down again. What is this certainty? What is this level? What is this quotient of certainty for which the Government is waiting in order to do something to develop a fiscal regime and a framework that will help the people of Newfoundland to develop this very important resource?
Clause 41 of the Bill states that Newfoundlanders are not really slated to benefit that much from the downstream activity of their own resource in Hibernia. Granted, if the end use is for consumption and feedstock requirements then they are to be directed to industrial facilities in Newfoundland. If those targets are met then the next targets will be with respect to feedstock requirements for Come-By-Chance. The limited need for these feedstocks and consumption from Hibernia right now means that there will be a great deal of oil which will not undergo a value-added stage in Newfoundland. Good heavens, Come-By-Chance is up in the air. Why is it up in the air? Because the Government's own Crown corporation, Petro-Canada, is balking at doing anything constructive with this refinery. It has indicated that it wants to dismantle it and sell it piecemeal to whomever will pay for the parts. So Newfoundlanders really cannot look forward to a great deal of benefit as a result of the consumption of feedstocks from existing industry or from Come-By-Chance. Then the feedstock requirements of the rest of the refineries in Atlantic Canada must be met, which brings us back to the remaining feedstocks being used for new industrial possibilities in the downstream in Newfoundland.
What about training and education to develop more jobs and more potential? The Bill does not deal with either of those aspects. If this was such a promising move for Newfoundland, why have businessmen called for aid to stop the collapse of the drilling in the offshore? Why has that happened? Why has this call for aid gone unanswered by the federal Government? Newfoundlanders want to know, as do all Canadians. The Government feels that Newfoundlanders and people in Atlantic Canada will be satisfied just by knowing that Bill C-94 has been presented in the House of Commons, been given second reading and referred to a committee for further hearings. That is not enough. Newfoundlanders do not buy that as a positive step. They want to see something concrete. They want to feel that the Government wants to do something to bring this measure forward as soon as it possibly can.
As the Parliamentary Secretary pointed out, what about the industry bid on the parcels of land where the calls for proposals were granted? The industry bid on only one-half of the six parcels. It offered only $4.75 million for exploration rights lasting for between four and five years. As I pointed out before, no wells were committed. The federal and provincial Ministers of Energy say that the results of the disastrous sales show that their new frontier lands policy is working, as the Parliamentary Secretary echoed this morning. If that is the
May 26, 1986

case then someone failed in terms of the timing. Newfoundlanders do not have the right to question whether the new Canada-Newfoundland Offshore Petroleum Board has done the right thing. They cannot question it now. They have no way of asking the Board if what it has done will be in the best interests of Newfoundland. What has been done has indicated that there is not a great deal of interest in the offshore, primarily because of the policies of the Government.
The Government has stated that Canadian companies do not matter and that a fiscal requirement for aiding the development of the offshore in Newfoundland does not matter. It has been stated that all that matters is waving around these pieces of paper, and if everyone does that then everything will be all right. However, these pieces of paper can provide a framework of a regulatory and management type, but unless there is the determination and the political will to do something in Hibernia then all these Bills and all these accords are not going to mean a darn thing.
The Government has already brought forward Bill C-85, legislation dealing with the Petroleum Incentives Program. The Government has managed to reduce the number of wells which were to be drilled in the grandfathering period of the Petroleum Incentives Program. As the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary has mentioned, the Government has brought forward Bill C-92 which has reduced from 80 per cent to 10 per cent the financial assistance available to Canadian companies not able to pay taxes to further discourage Canadian companies except for Petro-Canada to participate in frontier exploration.
What about Petro-Canada? This is the company that was developed to find new reserves of oil and gas and to be in the vanguard of offshore and other frontier exploration. Petro-Canada is now backing away from the agreements in which it already had an interest. It is not going to take up some of its back-in rights and it is not going to participate in the 25 per cent in which it could participate in some of the arrangements and joint ventures that exist on certain wells in the offshore. Does this mean that the other partners who pick up the 25 per cent will be able to get the benefit of the Petroleum Incentives Program? No, the Government has seen to it that they will not. The Government has caught them twice. It is taking away the assistance of the Crown corporation which was helping to develop these possibilities in the offshore, and now that Petro-Canada has backed away, the Government is not going to apply the Petroleum Incentives Program to that 25 per cent.
What has the Government done? It has added insult to injury as far as the offshore is concerned. The Government very nicely stated that this year's estimates include $950 million for the Petroleum Incentives Program, knowing that with its policies and with the general downturn in interest on the offshore the $950 million will not be picked up. We will be lucky if a fraction of that money is used. The remainder will go somewhere else, but not to Atlantic Canada. That has always
Atlantic Accord
been the way. It started with the fiscal statement of November 8, 1984, continued with the Budget of May 23, 1985, continued again with the recent Budget of February 1986 and continued again with the oil and gas legislation Bills that have been put before the House by the Government. It is a complete devastation of the economy of Atlantic Canada, and a large part of this devastation has been caused by the Government's offshore policy.
I think it is very sad that the great promise that was once held out to the people of Newfoundland is in jeopardy of slipping away, and this at a time when Newfoundlanders need employment and hope more than at any other time since they entered confederation in 1949. This is being done by the Government and by its own Crown corporation.
I would ask the Government to reconsider these disastrous policies and to take into account the interests of Atlantic Canada and particularly Newfoundland. These people had hoped that this oil would be coming onstream in the next few years, but they are now seeing this hope evaporate. This hope will not be fulfilled by 1992, something for which Newfoundlanders had initially hoped.
It is obvious that the Government is not concerned about people. I would ask that in this particular situation at least, the Government make an exception.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak on this Bill on behalf of the New Democratic Party and as the New Democratic Party energy critic. This is a most important Bill for Newfoundlanders and a vital Bill, as we would see if we could look into the future, for the future of Canada.
I come from the West coast. I might say that that does not qualify me to speak about Newfoundland.


Don't let that stop you.


That does not mean that I do not have a great deal of interest in Newfoundland and Newfoundlanders. My family emigrated to Canada in 1947. I was a young boy of four, just about to turn five. I can vaguely remember arriving by plane in Gander, Newfoundland from Glasgow. On that day, Newfoundland was not a part of Canada; therefore, I was in Newfoundland before it was a part of Canada. I am ashamed to say that I did not return to Newfoundland for many years. From Gander, we picked up a Trans-Canada Airlines plane and went on to Montreal. I will never forget arriving in Toronto during a snowstorm. Ultimately, I moved to Vancouver, later on in life.
I never returned to Newfoundland until a couple of years ago when I went to Corner Brook. The second day I was there, I was to be interviewed on the CBC television station in Corner Brook. Before being interviewed I watched television as the Atlantic Accord was announced in St. John's, just down the road a bit. I had to comment on the Atlantic Accord while in Newfoundland, and I will never forget that day. It meant a lot to me.

May 26, 1986
Atlantic Accord
I would like to tackle this Bill in some detail and deal with some general principles. There are some tremendously interesting Canadian issues, as well as Newfoundland and Atlantic issues that will come up. However, I am sure Newfoundlanders will understand if I begin my speech by reading an urgent telegram that I just received from a group in my riding. Later on, I will refer to this telegram and tie it in with the different aspects of the policies of the Conservative Government.
This is a copy of a telegram that was sent to the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) today by Local 1-217 of the International Woodworkers of America. That local is located in my riding. The telegram reads as follows:
Local 1-217 of the International Woodworkers of America is calling on your Government to immediately withdraw from the free trade discussions with the U.S. On May 22, 1986 the U.S. imposed a 35 per cent tariff on the imports of Canadian red cedar shakes and shingles.
This arbitrary decision is not consistent with the concept of free trade and it has become blatantly obvious that the U.S. has no interest in free trade whatsoever. The imposition of a tariff on B.C. shakes and shingles will effectively destroy the shake and shingle industry and result in the unemployment of thousands of workers. As you are aware, the U.S. has launched a countervailing duty suit against imports of all Canadian softwood lumber products. If that suit is successful the entire forest industry in Canada-


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.


Point of order!


I foresee two points of order. The first point of order is that there is a clear rule in Beauchesne's indicating that the Hon. Member should not be quoting from telegrams as there is no way of verifying their authenticity. The second point of order probably deals with a point of relevancy. The Hon. Member has said that he will tie the telegram into the debate so the Chair must take his word for that.


If Hon. Members opposite will not let me continue the telegram from the IWA-


Oh, oh!


It is from Doug Evans, the President of the local union, and for these people, it is a life and death issue. If that is what Conservative Members think of-


It's a Speaker's ruling.


I am not talking about the Speaker, I am talking about the people across from me.


They always want to muzzle Parliament.


No courtesy!


When they were over here-


Order, please. Could we allow the Hon. Member to complete his speech, please?


Mr. Speaker, I will complete my speech. I do not understand Conservative Members. If they want to muzzle Parliament, it is up to them.


Nonsense. You have a time and a place to do that.


It has been only 22 months, and they will not be around for much longer.


Why don't you say something on the Bill?


The Hon. Member says that I should speak on the Bill. Let me suggest to Conservative Members-


Quit hamming it up and say something about the Bill.


Mr. Speaker, when it hurts, Government Members do not want to hear it.


Nonsense!


Speak to the Bill.


The Hon. Parliamentary Secretary wants me to get down to the nitty-gritty of the Bill which he described.


Yes!


I will deal with the nitty-gritty of the Bill, then. The Government should stop misleading the people of Newfoundland and the people of Canada in general on the offshore. It should forget about short-term rhetoric and dig in for the long-term development of Hibernia. We must consider together in committee how that will come about. The New Democratic Party is committed to the long-term development of Hibernia. We will need that resource in the 1990s. We should figure out how it can be done and not mislead people about what is happening right now.
I should like to give an example of what is going on. When I was viewing television in Corner Brook I heard the Prime Minister speaking in St. John's. I took notes at the time, and I should like to refer to what he said. He said: "I am not afraid to inflict prosperity on Newfoundland and Labrador". That was his promise. Today the Parliamentary Secretary rose in the House and said that they were doing nicely, that they were getting bids, and that the system was working.
I should like to refer to an April 9 article which appeared in The Chronicle Herald. In part it read:
The Mulroney Government's first attempt to auction East Coast acreage for oil and gas exploration has ended in what one analyst called a "disaster".
In all, the industry has grabbed about one million hectares of offshore land without committing itself to drilling one well on the Grand Banks, an area which includes the Hibernia oil field.
Calgary oil analyst Ian Doig called the auction a "disaster" after only seven bids were received on six tracts of land on the Grand Banks, off Newfoundland.
May 26, 1986

No bids were received at ail for three of the blocks, with groups led by Shell Canada, Amoco Canada, and Esso Resources Canada winning the other three blocks.
Bids on all three parcels totalled $4.75 million, a figure which underlines the industry's "commitment" to offshore exploration, according to Energy Minister Pat Carney.
It was also according to the Parliamentary Secretary speaking in the debate this morning. The article continued:
However, well costs in the high-cost exploration area off Newfoundland start at about $25 million, and can go as high as $40 million.
Government officials confirmed Tuesday that committed spending on the offshore lands compels the companies to conduct seismic work only-
One industry executive, who asked not to be identified, said-the bids were not an "auspicious beginning" for the new Newfoundland-Canada board, or the new bidding system.
"You could hardly call this a showcase kickoff for the bidding system"-
Let us level with the people. Let us tell them what is really happening.
The New Democratic Party position on the Bill can be summarized in about five points. First I should like to outline them, and I will refer to them in detail later. We agree with the general principle of the Bill which recognizes the need for genuine provincial involvement in the exploitation of the Newfoundland offshore. We want the Newfoundland people and the Newfoundland Government involved directly in developing their own resources.
As a westerner I understand what it is like to have control of resources on land. They can be developed for the province and result in revenues for the province. It can make a "have-not" province into a "have" province. The best example in the country would be Alberta. Why should Newfoundland not have the same advantages?
The NDP has in fact led the way on the issue of provincial jurisdiction on the offshore. At the time of our 1979 convention, the NDP had Members in both the East and West. It was an important time. The Liberal Party did not have members in western Canada. In effect we were speaking on this issue as a national Party, and we took the position that the provinces, which of course would include Newfoundland, should have offshore jurisdiction. This was at the beginning of the fights between the Trudeau administration and the offshore provinces, especially Newfoundland.
As the Hon. Member who spoke before me said, currently the Atlantic Accord is a hollow document, despite the good principles contained in it, because of the international price of oil. The fact is that offshore oil activity has died over the last year. The Government has done nothing to restore the real pace of activity in the offshore.
We in the New Democratic Party also have some concerns about the Conservative Government's reliance upon tax-based incentives to steer the future course of petroleum development in the East Coast offshore. We have a feeling that it will simply not work. If it works, it will mean that large multinational oil companies, not Canadian oil companies, will have
Atlantic Accord
control of the offshore. I will return to that point in some detail later.
In respect of the general principle, that is, the need for genuine provincial involvement in the offshore, I spoke in the House on Tuesday, February 12, 1985 after having returned from Newfoundland and after the signing of the Atlantic Accord. I should like to refer to my statement at that time when I said:
Mr. Speaker, we in the New Democratic Party, as do all reasonable Canadians, rejoice that finally there is an agreement between Canada and Newfoundland to pave the way for the development of the Hibernia oil field.
Yesterday I was in Corner Brook, watching the signing ceremony on television. A Newfoundlander next to me said: "Those boys are going to get sore arms from patting themselves on the back so much". Be that as it may, 1 am glad there has been an agreement.
I have three positive suggestions. First, we should consider a constitutional amendment to enshrine provincial control of offshore resources in the Constitution. As a western Canadian, I realize how important that is.
Second, we have to be careful about the pace of development and about the creation of jobs. Energy, Mines and Resources officials told the energy committee this year that there would only be 6,000 jobs in the development of the field. Expectations are very high. Let us have some hearings by the energy committee to see if we can get more jobs, and to see whether we can get some jobs for western Newfoundland and Labrador which often feel left out of the development.
Finally, I would urge that the federal and provincial Governments not forget the traditional industries like fisheries and forestry where there really are jobs for the future. I am glad that there is a deal. Let us work on it and try to create more and better jobs. Let us not forget the fish and the forests as well.
In retrospect, if I might say, I think those principles hold. The fact is that there was a lot of rhetoric at that signing ceremony which has not been delivered on. It is very important to have offshore resources under provincial control. There has also been much rhetoric about the number of jobs involved but very little detailed examination of how those jobs will be delivered to Newfondlanders. We must also be careful about regional development in Newfoundland, and ensure that western Newfoundland and Labrador take part in the offshore development. As well, the province must not forget that there are traditional industries like fishing and forestry which should not be ignored in the rush to have offshore oil development. I think those principles hold.
As I said, in our 1979 convention the NDP favoured the control of the offshore being with the provinces. We saw it in terms of what happened in western Canada where resources under the land belong to the provinces. It has helped western provinces, especially, attain economic development. Otherwise they would just be hinterlands with nothing happening. Alberta is a good example, as I said earlier. That is not to say that there is not a role for the federal Government. A resource such as oil is a strategic resource. Society cannot work without it, and there is big money involved in it. There must be a role for the federal Government in terms of the importation and exportation of the resource, the taxation of the resource, and the sharing of the revenues. That is a very important principle, Mr. Speaker. I was proud that our Party took this constitutional principle on the offshore resources, and I was proud to be part of the constitutional committee of this House in the last

May 26, 1986
Atlantic Accord
Parliament in which the Hon. Member for Oshawa (Mr. Broadbent), the leader of our Party, proposed a constitutional amendment that would give some further control to the provinces over their own resources.
I know sometimes people from Ontario and Quebec find this a little hard to understand. You hear such things as "We own those resources too. They are Canadian resources." Ultimately they 