I remind Hon. Members to indicate that their petitions are certified.


Mr. Speaker, the petition I wish to present is definitely certified. Again it concerns the issue of the proposal of the NCC to build an embassy enclave in the Mile Circle parkland in my riding. The 83 persons who have signed this particular petition are all very much opposed to the proposal and come from all the cities within the National Capital Region.


for leave to introduce Bill C-273, an Act to amend the Criminal Code (prostitution).


Is it the pleasure of the House that the Hon. Member shall have leave to introduce the Bill?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, this amendment would increase the maximum imprisonment for six months to five years when an accused is found guilty of participating in an act of prostitution with a person under the age of 18 years. It will be no defence that the accused believed the prostitute to be age 18 years old or over.
Canadians are greatly concerned about the increasing sexual abuse of young people. This Bill will provide a strong and effective deterrent to customers of juvenile prostitutes.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I either did not hear Your Honour call for the presentation of reports from committees or it was missed. I wonder whether I could
present the twenty-first report of the standing committee with unanimous consent.


Of course there is one other possibility with regard to what happened. 1 am sure the House is perfectly willing to consent to returning to the presentation of committee reports.


Agreed.

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour of tabling, in both official languages, the Twenty-First Report of the Striking Committee.
[Editor's Note: For above report, see today's Votes and Proceedings.]


for leave to introduce Bill C-274, an Act to amend the Patent Act (generic farm chemicals).


Is it the pleasure of the House that the Hon. Member shall have leave to introduce the Bill?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, this particular Bill would amend the Patent Act regarding farm chemicals. It will reduce the exclusive right farm chemical companies have on a patent from 17 years to 4 years and in effect establish generic farm chemicals. It is very similar to what the country did many years ago with generic pharmaceuticals.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
March 6, 1986
Order Paper Questions PUBLIC SERVICE EMPLOYMENT ACT
['Agreed.']
for leave to introduce Bill C-275, an Act to amend the Public Service Employment Act (open competition).


Is it the pleasure of the House that the Hon. Member shall have leave to introduce the Bill?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to present my first Private Member's Bill to amend the Public Service Employment Act. This Bill would open competition in the Public Service Commission to all qualified Canadians.
Motion agreed, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
*
* *


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, Questions Nos. 447 and 457 will be answered today.


1.	Did the Canadian International Development Agency help finance, through a grant, the construction of an agricultural sawmill co-operative at Ucua, northeast of Luanda in Angola?
2.	Was the sawmill, in fact, built with the money supplied and did an employee of the Government actually see the sawmill being built and operated?
3.	Does the sawmill now exist?


1.
For many years the Government of Canada through the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) has had programs which contribute Financially to the international development activities overseas of Canadian church groups, unions, co-operatives, universities and colleges, non-governmental organizations and other organizations.
In August, 1980, in response to a request, CIDA provided funding worth $44,145 to the Canadian Council for International Co-operation (CCIC) for materials to assist with the rehabilitation of the Ucua agricultural/sawmill co-operative.
This project was jointly sponsored by the Anglican Church, SUCO, OXFAM, and the Canadian Catholic Organization for Development and Peace (CCODP). It was co-ordinated by the Canadian Council for International Co-operation (CCIC) and administered by CUSO.
2. The sawmill had been in existence for about 50 years at the time of project approval in 1980. The materials were to
provide forestry and agricultural support to the Ucua agricultural/sawmill co-operative to encourage and increase food production, furniture making, etc.
CIDA has never had a bilateral program with Angola. Officials of the Government of Canada have not, to our knowledge, visited the project. However, CUSO and OXFAM do have photographs of the sawmill taken in 1982 and 1983.
3. Canada does not have a resident mission in Angola and we understand that there are security problems relating to visits to the area.


Since September 4, 1984 how many (a) men (t) women have been appointed by the government to Courts of Record and, in each case, to which courts?


I ask, Mr. Speaker, that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


The questions enumerated by the Parliamentary Secretary have been answered. Shall the remaining questions stand?


Agreed.


Prior to going to Orders of the Day I am in receipt of a notice of a desire by the Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan) to raise a point of order.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker, and I do so as the Chairman of the Standing Joint Committee on Regulations and Other Statutory Instruments. 1 want to draw to the attention of the House a failure by the Minister of Transport (Mr. Mazankowski) to comply with Standing Order 70(16). I will do so in two sentences.
Our committee tabled its fourth report on October 17, 1985. The Standing Order to which 1 just referred provides for the Government to table a comprehensive response to the report within 120 days of the report being tabled. That 120 day period expired on February 14. The Minister of Transport, since that day, has been in default of his responsibility to table a comprehensive reply.
Our report is an important one, and I want to draw to the attention of the Speaker this breach of the rules of the House.


1 thank the Hon. Member and 1 take his point. I am not entirely sure what I can say or do, but 1 think the House knows the point which the Hon. Member is making and I will certainly look into the matter.
DEBATES__________________________________________11235
The Budget-Mr. Hnatyshyn


The House resumed from Wednesday, March 5, consideration of the motion of Mr. Wilson (Etobicoke Centre) that this House approves in general the budgetary policy of the Government.
Mr. Speaker, on February 26, the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) brought down a Budget designed to restore fiscal stability to the country.
Through the most far-reaching program of expenditure control ever undertaken by a Government in Canada, the Budget took yet another deliberate step in the implementation of the Government's November, 1984 agenda for economic renewal. It is a step that enables us to foresee government program spending falling by the end of the decade to the same share of the economy as at the beginning of the 1960s. It is a step that promotes economic renewal by smarter spending.
You will recall that two weeks earlier, as a part of our plan for economic renewal, the Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Nielsen) announced the Government's decision to launch a major regulatory reform strategy. By improving the Government's regulatory performance, we intend to reduce impediments to economic growth, cut down inhibitions to job creation and eliminate unnecessary incursions on personal freedom. In other words, we want to promote economic renewal through better regulation.

In my new capacity as Minister responsible for regulation, 1 would like to inform the House of two components of the federal reform strategy: the introduction of the Citizens' Code of Regulatory Fairness and a regulatory program improvement package.
First of all, I would like to comment on the subject of regulation and the need for regulatory reform.

As a lawyer and a former member of the Standing Joint Committee on Regulations and Other Statutory Instruments, 1 am no stranger to Government regulations. Last year I was appointed Chairman of the Special Committee on Council. That is the cabinet committee responsible for approving all regulatory initiatives. The concern about regulation that I had developed while in the Opposition was only reinforced when looking at it from the Government's point of view. You have to see it to believe just how many regulatory initiatives go through the committee week in and week out, very much like chickens on a processor's conveyer belt, Mr. Speaker. [Translation]
We all know how extensive federal regulations are and how considerable the cost is to the public purse and the economy. If

March 6, 1986
The Budget-Mr. Hnatyshyn
we consider these costs, the very limited information available to the Ministers who establish new regulations and the limited input by Parliament and the public into the system, the importance of regulatory reform and the need for it are obvious.

As Hon. Members know, regulatory reform is a term that has been in more or less common use for about 10 years. It is frequently associated or confused with the more dramatic but usually less accurate term, deregulation.
To me, deregulation is only one of several options open to the regulatory reformer. The key objective for proponents of regulatory reform is to improve regulation, that is, to make it rational and efficient, to limit its growth but not necessarily to dismantle it.
Although regulatory reform has been talked about a lot in Canada, very little has actually been done about it. A lot of people probably saw it as a short term political fad deserving lip service and nothing more. Others may have found it a hard issue to take seriously because regulatory matters sometimes seem too technical for mere mortals. Still others may have been put off by the subject by identifying it with ideological movements in other countries.
In my opinion, we have to move beyond these preconceptions and we have to do it soon. The fast movement of technology and the growing integration of the world economy are challenging and, in some cases, rapidly outpacing our traditional approaches to regulation.
Twentieth century economic realities need to be matched by twentieth century regulatory approaches. This is a matter not of ideology but of good, sensible and pragmatic government. I know I have good company in this House with these views.
In the debate following the Deputy Prime Minister's announcement of the regulatory reform strategy, I was gratified to see that the opposition representatives gave the strategy their approval, qualified perhaps, but fundamental approval nonetheless.
I am hoping that, as the details of the strategy are announced, any lingering doubts among my opposition colleagues will disappear. I am most serious in expressing this hope because I think regulatory reform is one of those issues on which bipartisan support and co-operation will make a great deal of difference in improving government efficiency, promoting economic growth and, most important, getting Government off the backs of Canadians. Indeed, I will go further, Mr. Speaker. I think it is the kind of issue on which Canadians would want their Members of Parliament of all stripes to work together.
With these general reflections on my new regulatory responsibilities, I would like now to announce details of two new initiatives which form an important part of the Government's regulatory reform strategy.
First, I am proud to announce and introduce The Citizens' Code of Regulatory Fairness. It is a unique initiative based on the principle that Canadians are entitled to know in as much
detail as possible exactly how much government regulators are carrying out their responsibilities. Citizens have a right to know the rules of the game and to know they will be fair. The code response to concerns expressed to the ministerial task force on program review that the federal regulatory system is almost inaccessible to ordinary Canadians, that regulation at all levels has become too much the preserve of public servants, specialized lawyers and lobby groups. The code's purpose is to provide a set of high standards for ensuring regulatory fair play. The code also provides an explicit basis for judging the performance of regulators. In this way the code is intended to regulate the regulators.
Copies of the code are being distributed to all federal officials with regulatory responsibilities. Mr. Speaker, not only will they be expected to comply with the letter and spirit of the standards, but adherence will be a prerequisite-possibly I could refer to it as the ticket of entry-for approval of new regulatory proposals by the Special Committee of Council. The code consists of 15 points and copies of it are being circulated to all Members' offices, so 1 will not read them in detail at this time. However, I think it would be of interest to the House and the people of Canada to know some of the highlights of this new Citizens' Code of Regulatory Fairness.
Canadians are going to have a fuller opportunity, henceforth, to be consulted on regulatory initiatives. Second, they are going to have adequate early notice. Third, regulatory decision-making is going to become more prompt and efficient. The Government is going to tell Canadians in clear language what the regulatory requirements are and why they have been adopted. Regulatory officials are going to be held more clearly accountable for their actions and advice. Disproportionate regulatory burdens on small and medium-sized business are going to be avoided from this point forward. Regulations will have to pass cost-benefit tests, and sanctions and enforcement powers are going to fit the seriousness of violations. Finally, the public will have an on-going role in evaluating and criticizing ineffective or inefficient regulatory programs.
The report of the Macdonald Royal Commission affirmed the view that, in this day and age, big Government requires more democracy, not less. In its thought-provoking first chapter the report says:
The extension of democracy which is required by big government is not one of war fragmented participation, but one which addresses Canadians as citizens and seeks our involvement in common tasks.
I see The Citizens' Code of Regulatory Fairness as encouraging the democratization of federal regulatory activity. That is a goal which I am sure we all endorse.
My second announcement, Mr. Speaker, is that I am today releasing a major regulatory program improvement package. It provides a long list of regulatory reform initiatives which are now under way in 16 Departments and 7 regulatory agencies to address specific problems identified by the ministerial task force on program review.
March 6, 1986



These measures are in addition to the many regulatory reform initiatives already implemented or about to be implemented under the direction of Ministers with a central responsibility for regulation. These Ministers will provide details on their reform activities as work progresses. Although I am responsible for developing and implementing the overall strategy of regulatory reform, I think I should stress the crucial role played by the Ministers in this process within their respective responsibility sectors.

Indeed, Mr. Speaker, it should be clear that we are not talking about a one-shot crack at regulatory reform. Rather, we are launching an across-the-board series of initiatives which we expect will pick up increasing momentum and become one of the Government's most substantial achievements.
You will recall, Mr. Speaker, that the Government's regulatory policy makes clear that the Government is committed to a program of pragmatic and balanced regulatory reform. Its aim is to make federal regulations smarter in terms of efficiency, and fairer in terms of public access and participation. The regulatory program improvement package being released today reflects this pragmatic and balanced approach to regulatory reform.
While time does not permit me to go into all 43 of the items included in this package, perhaps I can give you some of the flavour by referring to a few of the specific items. The ministerial task force found that there are a number of federal, as well as provincial, regulatory programs touching on different aspects of hazardous products. It queried whether the net protection provided to Canadians by these programs is adequate. In response, the Government has decided to evaluate a re-ordering of priorities and the possible elimination of fragmented responsibilities in these areas.
Several of the items in the package call for increased privatization, cost recovery, or increased self-regulation as means of reducing unnecessary Government intervention or regulatory costs. As an example, an action plan is to be prepared for the phased and full devolution over six years to the private sector of electricity and gas verification.
The package identifies a number of statutes, such as the Bankruptcy Act and Copyright Act, which are seriously out of date and deficient. These laws provide the crucial regulatory framework within which our economy operates. If these laws are flawed, our economy suffers a serious disadvantage. The Government intends to give priority to reforming these laws. Several of the items in the package relate to areas of parrallel, and sometimes overlapping, federal-provincial regulatory activity. An example of this is the item calling for early action to arrive at more satisfactory compliance and enforcement policies for Section 33 of the Fisheries Act governing water and fish habitat.
Finally, Hon. Members will no doubt be interested to note that the reform package includes a number of improvements
The Budget-Mr. Hnatyshyn
affecting food regulation and inspection. The decision in this respect are typical of the Government's general approach to regulatory reform with the emphasis on making things work better in the interests of economic development, job creation, public protection, and more efficient Government. In keeping with these priorities we are introducing today several practical reforms intended to strengthen still further Canada's worldwide reputation for excellence in food production. The reforms represent a major advantage in the efficiency and effectiveness of our regulation of food products. They boil down to four main thrusts.
First, we are going to strengthen the protection of Canadians by reaffirming the absolute primacy of the Department of National Health and Welfare on all matters affecting the health, safety, or nutritional dimensions of the food industry. Second, we are going to eliminate duplication and inconsistency among regulations dealing with health and safety issues on the one hand, and quality and grading issues on the other. Third, we are going to try to intensify efforts to co-operate with the provinces to bring about common health and safety standards across the country. Fourth, the Government is going to adopt a policy of no ministerial discretion with regard to individual inspection judgments.
I have gone into some detail on the food regulation reforms contained in the program improvement package because 1 think they are an excellent illustration of how the Government intends to proceed with regulatory reform in general. We have no intention of throwing the baby out with the bath water, but confronted by a need for regulatory improvement we intend to take firm, forthright, and effective action. With these food regulation reforms we have preserved the good while confronting the problems and, I trust, overcoming them.
The February 26 Budget makes it clear that the Government intends to face up to the problems of fiscal instability with statemanship and determination. In the same way, the regulatory reform strategy is directed at getting the country's regulatory affairs in order. By responsible spending and a strategy for fair and better regulation, the Government has already begun the monumental process of turning the country's economy away from pessimism and decline and toward energetic renewal and prosperity for the future.


Mr. Speaker, I wondered whether 1 was listening to the budget debate because, within the latitude permitted, the Minister spent much time talking about ministerial responsibilities outside the Budget. Is it because he is not prepared to defend the Budget that he spent so much of his time trying to divert the attention of the Canadian people from all of the things that are wrong with it? As a result of his silence on this subject, can we expect that the Government is proposing to take our advice and make some of the changes in the Budget that we have been asking for?


As you know, Mr. Speaker, I am the last one to indulge in partisan repartee across the aisle, especially in connection with observations made by my distinguished

March 6, 1986
The Budget-Mr. Hnatyshyn
friend from York Centre. However, if the co-chairman of the Joint Committee on Regulations and Other Statutory Instruments does not understand the importance of regulatory reform as it concerns good management and efficient delivery of Government services, then I am a little leery about the paucity of understanding on the part of the Official Opposition with respect to any economic issue. I can say nothing further except that we would be only too happy to give serious consideration to suggestions on the part of the Official Opposition concerning this Budget if they have any.


Mr. Speaker, I do not share the same concern that my friend across the way had with respect to the budget policies of the Government. I do not think anyone really does. However, I want to ask my colleague, the Government House Leader, to elaborate on one point. We brought in a Budget which was almost bang on with what a committee suggested a Budget should be in the early part of the year. The Estimates were linked very closely with the Budget; I think they came down the day after. Hand in hand with our efforts to tie down the deficit left to us by the previous Liberal Government, there was an effort to make sure that we regulate smarter. Part of the cost of Government is the number of people we have examining regulations, putting them into effect and enforcing them. Perhaps my colleague could comment on the cost to the Canadian taxpayer of regulations which may be inappropriate or out of date as Canada moves toward the end of the 20th century.


Mr. Speaker, my Parliamentary Secretary makes a very valid observation with respect to the juxtaposition of regulatory reform in connection with the total fiscal and economic policy of this Government. A task force dealt with regulatory reform and looked at the wide ranging implications of regulations for Canada. It was pointed out by way of example-and this was the most conservative assertion possible on the basis of advice we received from experts in the field-that regulations impact on Canadians to the extent of some $30 billion. Consider that in the regulatory process there are some 35,000 public servants involved directly and, I suppose, indirectly. This means that a very large part of Government is involved in law-making behind the scenes. This has a very serious and wide-ranging effect on the daily lives of Canadians. Regulations cover food inspection, hazardous products, transportation, shipping and fisheries, to name a few, not to mention agriculture which is a matter of substantial importance to me, being from the Province of Saskatchewan. This gives you an idea of the wide range of activities affected by regulations which are not made on the floor of the House of Commons. They are created behind the scenes and promulgated in a conveyer belt process, as I said, by Cabinet.
What we are doing now is trying to bring some light to the process. It is absolutely essential, for example, that we enter into a process where all new regulations are measured against their social cost and cost efficiency so that a judgment can be made by the people involved in the political life of our country, including Members of Parliament, as to their validity.
I say this in all seriousness to the Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan). He has had some experience with regulations, as have I, in sitting for many years on that committee. If the people of Canada had an opportunity to look at this, they would be astounded and amazed just how much law and constraint on their activities is effected outside of this Chamber. There is a phenomenal amount of regulation of people taking place.
For example, the committee has been doing excellent work in examining whether or not officials are arbitrary; whether or not our freedoms are negatively affected by regulations; whether or not principles of natural justice are observed in the drawing up of regulations. These laws, and that is what they are, are drawn up in the bureaucracy without the same sort of scrutiny that laws in the statute books receive on the floor of this House. There are certainly no television cameras watching and no public discussion. It is done by people who have a responsibility but also a kind of self-interest with respect to the nature and form of regulations. In my view, the Parliamentary Secretary has highlighted the significance of this problem and the necessity for the Government to enter into a new regime of measuring what is being done regarding the economic welfare of Canadians.
I do not want to take any more time but I do want to reiterate that under this new regime Canadians are going to become, so far as the federal level is concerned, world leaders in regulatory reform. This is a very, very progressive initiative we are taking. I am very proud to be associated with it because I know the long history of this issue. I say this is a non-partisan sense. There has been a desire by all Parties to come to grips with the growing volume of regulation and make sure there is some rationale to the regulations which affect the daily lives of our fellow citizens so very much.


The period provided for questions and comments has now expired. Debate. The Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan).


Mr. Speaker, I listened with interest to what the Government House Leader had to say about the initiatives he is taking in regulatory reform. I have remarks I want to make on the Budget, of course, but I welcome very much, and I think all Canadians should as well, what is being proposed by the Government House Leader concerning regulatory reform. We may be-and I say "may be" because I want to see what happens before I congratulate the Government-seeing a real breakthrough here in the way in which delegated legislation and other statutory instruments are handled. As chairman of the committee concerned, 1 appreciate his remarks about the nature of our work. It is dull, it does not get public attention even when egregious wrongdoing is found in the way in which regulations are processed, simply because they affect the rights of Canadians indirectly, not directly. However, that is important, too, and I appreciate
March 6, 1986

a Government which indicates it intends to give priority to this issue.
Maybe we will see the same type of breakthrough here as we have seen in the new rules of this House. This Government can claim the credit for a substantial breakthrough in humanizing the rules of this House. I do not want to let members of the Government get away with taking that totally as a compliment because I think an element of enlightened opposition has been responsible for House reform. 1 do not think that in the last Parliament the Opposition was prepared to give the kind of co-operation which this Opposition is prepared to give.
Be that as it may, we have a lot to look forward to as Members of Parliament, and a lot to tell our constituents about ways in which their rights, direct and indirect, are being enhanced by reforms that may be under way in the House of Commons now. That does not take away the fact that the Minister, during the budget debate, did not spend any of his time talking about the Budget. I am entitled to draw from that the conclusion that I suggested in my question, which is that he is not prepared to defend a Budget which I want to put into the context in which it is seen by the people of York Centre and York North. They have watched a trend, since this Government took office, through two Budgets of tending to stratify the Canadian people ever more between those who are better off and those who are worse off. There is a developing sense in our country that it is a country of rich and poor, and not one where most people are in the middle class. It is interesting that 20 years ago when surveys were done most Canadians said they felt they were in the middle class in Canada. We had in our society a certain social cohesion. That social cohesion is being undermined now by two Budgets in a row, which have heightened the disparity between the rich and the poor and given Canadians the sense that the Government is fostering that type of disparity.
I want to put statistics on the record that show exactly that, that the impact of these two Budgets has been to make middle and lower-income Canadians worse off and to make well-to-do Canadians better off. I know that this is a concern of the Conservative Party because their chief statistician and analyst, Allan Gregg, has mentioned in interviews that he has given to the press that the Conservatives are worried that they are being seen as a Party which is devoted to enhancing the incomes of those better off, even if it means making the rest of the Canadian people, those in the middle and at the bottom, that much worse off.
Knowing that the Government has been given that advice by its chief strategist, I would have thought that this would be a Budget in which it would try to undo the damage that was done in the first Budget. For example, in that Budget it introduced an amazing tax relief in the area of capital gains. Those in a society who get capital gains do not have to pay taxes any more on the first $500,000 of capital gains. Capital gains are enjoyed by those who are better off. People in the middle and at the bottom do not get capital gains, except
The Budget-Hon. B. Kaplan
maybe on their house, which is already exempt under the existing tax laws. That was a clear benefit for people in this society who are better off. With the warning that they got as a Party about the impact that their fiscal policies was having on the class structure of Canadian society I thought they would retract that.
We found in this Budget that they added additional measures to help the rich and to make the poor worse off, because the Government's theory is, and the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) said it in so many words, that there are not enough rich people in Canada. I took it from that that, if the Budgets were designed to make more rich people in Canada, they would be achieving what the Conservatives wanted to achieve through this mandate.
I want to deal with two concrete cases. A family which was earning, in 1984, $100,000 a year paid in tax $35,236. Now, under the Budget proposals, which we are debating now, combined with the Government's first Budget that was brought in in 1985, that $100,000-a-year family will be paying $34,450 in taxes by the year 1988. That family's tax load will decrease by $1,000 over the next three years. However, a family earning $20,000 a year-that is a family at the bottom or close to the middle-will find in the same period that its tax bill will have increased from $1,388 to $1,409 in the same period of time. In other words, the $100,000-a-year family under this Conservative Government gets its taxes cut; the $20,000-a-year family gets its taxes increased.
Let me look again at the two combined Budgets and their effect on a family of four with one wage earner earning $20,000 a year. As a result of those two Budgets that family's income tax will go up by $225, and the wage earner will pay an additional $300 in sales tax in addition to the income tax increase. I suggest that that kind of social result is unacceptable in the Budget. I know that a lot of members of the Conservative Party regard President Reagan in the United States as their great guru. Let me say this about President Reagan, he has a plan to attack the deficit, but his plan has never included tax increases at all, tax increases on the rich or tax increases on the poor. He is popular in the United States with his approach. In Canada you can understand the public reaction to the Conservative Government whose plan is to increase taxes but not to increase them on those who are better off but, rather to increase them on those in the middle and on those who are worse off.
I want to deal at length in the balance of my remarks with the question of gasoline prices. Gasoline prices are a very important item to the average Canadian family. People used to think that the price of gasoline was rather like a luxury, let us say like cigarettes, and that, if the federal or provincial Governments needed more money, gasoline was one of the discretionary spending areas where you could go-let people drive less. We have smartened up now in our understanding of the impact of gasoline prices on the Jiving standard of Canadians and on inflation in general. For most people-and I am not talking here only about those in our great cities, I am talking about most people in most places in Canada-we find the car

March 6, 1986
The Budget-Hon. B. Kaplan
is an essential vehicle, even in our big cities. Mass transit in Canada is less transit in buses and subways than transit by car. Mass transportation in Canada is the automobile, because that is the way most people do travel. So we cannot look at gasoline prices as being a luxury item. In addition, gasoline is the fuel for most of the transportation of goods in Canadian society. When gasoline prices go up through tax increases, it is inevitable that food prices will go up, the cost of shelter will go up because of the transportation factor and its production, and all of these industries in the middle are part of the cost of living of the Canadian people. Gasoline prices have to be a matter of concern of the Government and of this Parliament because of that.
Finally, gasoline prices matter a lot because tourism is an important industry in this country. If gasoline prices are high, as they are now, when they are falling in other places in the world, that is a factor against one of the most important industries in our country, the tourism industry.
So having shown you how important gasoline prices are and how important it is that it be Government policy to moderate gasoline prices, I want to look at the record and examine what it is that is happening in gasoline prices, and what, in the submission of the Liberal Party and of our caucus here, should be happening.
Since this Government came to office, it increased the taxes on a litre of gasoline by 66 per cent. That is a very big increase, because the taxes are a high proportion of the price charged for gasoline. In 1984, federal and excise taxes on gasoline were 4.3 cents a litre. After this Budget, they are 7.12 cents a litre. That is a 66 per cent increase. While there was no increase in the excise tax in the last Budget, the general sales tax was increased by 1 per cent, and that applies to gasoline as well. That Budget, alone, saw a 0.3 cent a litre increase in the price of gasoline, which amounts to 1.3 cents a gallon.
In spite of the importance of gasoline to tourism, which I believe the Government acknowledges, it has looked to gasoline and targeted the price of gasoline as an area where taxes can be levied but not noticed by Canadians.
However, Canadians do notice these increases in a very interesting context. They are noticing it in the context of world prices that have fallen by more than 50 per cent since last December.
Last December, the international price of a barrel of oil was S22.50 U.S. The price of a barrel of oil has fallen to below $14 U.S. which is a decrease that is having an enormous impact on the energy sector. I will talk about the problems of that sector in a moment. Members of our Party have pointed out what must be done to keep the energy industry healthy and to ensure job increases and economic activity in Alberta and elsewhere.
Before dealing with the impact of falling oil prices on the energy sector, let me talk about its impact on my constituents who fill their gas tanks at the pump. The price decreases as a result of a 50 per cent drop in the world oil price has been so
small that it is almost scandalous. Gasoline prices in Canada are not falling to reflect that drop in world oil prices although we see in the United States that the price of gasoline at the pump is falling rapidly.
The prices have not decreased partly because the Government is applying a substantial increase in taxes, but even when one takes that into account, there should be a decrease similar to what is taking place in the United States.
The Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources (Miss Carney) tells us that we only need to wait for that drop in price to take place. She says that it takes 75 days for a decline in world oil prices to work its way through the storage tanks, through the vessels carrying the oil, through the refineries and through the consumer storage depots in our cities to get to the gas pumps. Therefore, it should also take 75 days in the United States for those price decreases to take effect. Why must my constituents wait for 75 days when these benefits are being realized much more quickly in the United States?
The answer is that in the United States there is a much higher degree of competition among gas retailers. Many of us have visited the United States as tourists and witnessed the competition that does not exist in Canada. For instance, gas stations charge lower prices to those who are prepared to pay cash and accept many different credit cards. There is much greater evidence of interest in the consumer and competition in the United States than in Canada.
I am not suggesting that the gasoline companies in Canada that run the majority of gas stations in this country are breaking the law or in a conspiracy. I do not have proof of that, but an investigation was conducted by the former Government and a report published explaining that this is not an industry in which competition works. The major oil companies are powerful and watch each other closely. Price leadership occurs, and when the reduction of 2 cents a litre took place a couple of weeks ago we saw how the other companies followed the lead of Imperial Oil.
The report to which I refer warned Canadians that steps needed to be taken to make the Canadian industry more competitive so that Canadians would benefit immediately from any breaks without any stalling by the companies. The former Government's solution to increased competition in Canada was the establishment of Petro-Canada. We wanted it to make money and operate much like an ordinary company except that it would be publicly owned. When the public interest requires it, we expect Petro-Canada to show some leadership in that industry.
In this environment of falling world oil prices when the Seven Sisters are trying to make as much money from this situation as possible by keeping prices high for as long as possible, Petro-Canada's role is obvious. It should begin to lower prices as a result of what is happening in the world.
Instead, we learn that Petro-Canada is being used as an instrument of the energy industry to keep prices high and rationalize the industry through non-competitive means so that
March 6, 1986

the consumer will get as little and as late as possible. That is unacceptable.


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member was correct when he said that the Government has imposed sharp increases in taxes on Canadians.
His Party formed the Government of Canada for 30 of the last 36 years, from 1950 to 1986. In 1950, corporate taxes and personal incomes taxes brought in the same percentage of revenue to the Government. The Government has exacerbated this discrepancy.
Now, corporate taxes are about one-quarter of personal income taxes in Government revenue. This has not happened only since the Conservative Government but because corporation tax breaks got larger every year while the Liberals were in power. Where was he when his Government was allowing this?
I also point out to the Hon. Member that it was during his term of office that 250 people with incomes of more than $200,000 in the last year, for which we have records, did not pay a cent in personal income tax. It was his Government that permitted and encouraged this kind of unfair discrepancy. Where was he during those years?
The Hon. Member talked about lack of competition in the oil industry, which is reflected in the price that consumers pay at the pump. We have had reports about that lack of competition taking place for years while the Liberals were in power. He is correct that Petro-Canada should set an example, but there are other ways in which the oil companies could have been brought to task. They should have been charged and prosecuted under the competition laws, but the Liberal Government did not do it. Why?


Let me deal with the last point, Mr. Speaker, although I thought I had covered it in my remarks. I did not read that in that report for which the former Government asked and which it obtained. It showed the true nature of the gas retailing industry and the impact it had against the interests of consumers, but I did not read that report as outlining crimes for which the players in the gasoline retailing industry could be called to account. However, what it told us was that, without necessarily breaking the law, a situation had been produced in which there was a lot less competition. I know what the New Democratic Party would have done. It would have nationalized Imperial Oil or a whole bunch of the other players. That is the easy socialist solution, but it is not what the Liberals wanted to do.


You didn't do anything.


The Hon. Member says we did not do anything, but we established a vehicle as a major player which was meant to keep the game honest. It was meant to be there, sticking up for us, the Canadian people who paid the taxes, which allowed that company to acquire all of its assets, Petrofina, a lot of these Gulf stations and a lot of other
The Budget-Hon. B. Kaplan
facilities across the country. We are the ones who put the money up for the company to do that.
What do we find now that we recognize a very specific situation where lack of competitiveness is hurting Canadian consumers? We find that Petro-Canada is on the other side and the Minister is proud to come to the House and tell us she told Petro-Canada to act like the other ones, not to try to do anything special to help its shareholders, who are the Canadian people. She told it to get together with the industry and act like the rest of them. Well, that is a perversion of the intention of Petro-Canada and it has left the Canadian people at the mercy of the energy players in a very non-competitive situation.
I know I do not have very much time but I do want to deal with the observation with respect to corporations contributing proportionately less and individuals contributing proportionately more over the years to the tax system. The fallacy of the New Democratic Party in making this criticism,-in viewing it as a criticism-is to think of the rich corporations as if they were rich people.


Should they not pay some taxes?


The corporations in society are not people, rich and poor, with needs and with wealth. The corporations belong to people.


The courts treat them as people.


Why don't the banks pay taxes?


Well, 1 would like to answer that and the Hon. Member can certainly ask another question, but I want to try to enlighten-


Order, please. The Hon. Member will be allowed a supplementary question, if he wishes. The Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan).


I am trying to explain the rationalization of the tax system which was recommended by a great hero of the NDP, the Carter Commission, that is, to try to place the burden of taxes on people with the ability to pay it. Behind those corporations are their owners and to the extent that taxes were shifted from corporations to individuals, the tax burden was shifted through the corporations of the rich people who own the valuable corporations. I think if the Hon. Member would look at the way in which the burden of tax was laid on individual taxpayers during that period, he will find that, contrary to what has happened since the last election, the shift has been that those with less ability to pay taxes are paying less and those with more ability to pay taxes are paying more.
I know there are a few individuals with large incomes who manage to work the system so they do not have to pay any taxes. We agree with the idea of the minimum tax so that the tax system cannot be played that way. 1 am a former tax lawyer. I know about the limits to which we can assist people with very high incomes to get away without having to pay any tax at all. It is not that easy and it was getting harder and

March 6, 1986
The Budget-Hon. B. Kaplan
harder each year until this election. Starting with the current election-and 1 put the figures on the record that show this- the purpose of the Government was not to try to place a heavier burden on those more able to pay. It was the reverse. It was to try to help the rich people in Canada get richer faster by paying less taxes and to ask those at the middle and at the bottom-contrary to what had been done by former Liberal Governments-to pay more of the tax burden.


The Hon. Member still has a couple of minutes for questions or comments.


Mr. Speaker, I hope the Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan) will pass along his concerns to the Liberal Government of Quebec about the high price of gas, because it puts some very high new taxes on gas. That is why the price of gas is so high in Ottawa. It is not going to be lowered here, because even if it is higher here than in other parts of Canada, people from Quebec still come here to buy gasoline.
1 do not know why the Hon. Member did not mention the Liberal promise in the 1980 election that it was going to give the Canadian people cheap gas. After the Liberals and the NDP got together to support the National Energy Program, gas went up by SI.25 a gallon. The Canadian people had to fork out $1.1 billion to buy Petrofina, which was one of the poorest deals which has ever been forced upon the Canadian people. That deal is still under investigation by the Auditor General. And $1 million in legal fees went to some law firm in Switzerland that handled the Petrofina deal.
It is very interesting to listen to the Hon. Member for Winnipeg North (Mr. Orlikow) who is so worried about high taxes. We have an NDP Government in Manitoba, a province which has the highest taxes in the country, but I do not hear any Hon. Members of the New Democratic Party talking about the high taxes in Manitoba.


That is rubbish.


Listen to them squeal and holler. Perhaps they will bring up the subject of high taxes in Manitoba some day. The reason we have high taxes in Canada is that we have to pay for all of our social programs which, between the provinces and the federal Government, amount to $62 billion a year. The United States has cheap gas but it does not have a cheap medical program. It has cheap alcohol and cheap tobacco because it does not have the social programs we do.
The 60 days is just about over for the oil companies. If the price of gas does not come down pretty quickly, you can be sure, Mr. Speaker, that Hon. Members on this side will be up on their feet complaining and raising the very dickens with the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources (Miss Carney) about the high cost of gas.


You haven't done it yet.


I will give the Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan) an opportunity to rebut.


I know, and I believe the Canadian people know, that we do not get social programs for free. We have medicare here. They do not have that in the United States. We get to send our kids to university for much lower fees than people do in the United States. We know we do not get those things for free. The people in this country know they have to pay some taxes. My complaint is not about that, but about the way in which the burden is shared, the fact that the Government is letting rich people off the hook for these taxes and is asking people at the middle and at the bottom to pay more.
With respect to the 1980 promise of cheap gas-I am glad I have the opportunity to say a word about that-it is true that when the National Energy Program came into effect the price of gas jumped at the pumps. However, in the world market it jumped even more. When the Western Accord came in, the creature of this new Government, prices jumped, but when they fell in the United States, they continued to remain high here.


A lot of people went back to work in Alberta.


We can argue about $1 million fees, and so on, but it is undeniable that when the National Energy Program was on, Americans would come to our country to fill their tanks. They would come to Windsor and Vancouver to fill their tanks, and gas stations were growing in number. Now that we have the Western Accord-and this is also undeniable-Canadians are going to the United States to fil their tanks with gas. So much for who is being fair with the consumers.
In our day, America