Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure for me to inform the House this morning that in 1987, Canada will be celebrating the International Year of Shelter for the Homeless, in accordance with Resolution 37/221 passed by the UN General Assembly on December 20, 1982.
We all realize that like many other countries, rich or poor, Canada has too many citizens who cannot afford decent housing. New Government policies announced in the House last December are aimed at making resources available to Canadian men and women who need them most, while providing for greater flexibility with respect to local conditions.
However, if we compare our situation with the rest of the world, Canadians are privileged indeed. Beyond our borders, in Africa, Asia and Latin America and the Caribbean, housing problems are of an entirely different nature. It is hard to find words to adequately describe how widespread and intense the problem is and the suffering it causes. I am therefore very pleased to announce that next year, the Canadian International Development Agency and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, in accordance with Canada's decision to support the objectives of the International Year of Shelter for the Homeless, will be taking part in a conference sponsored by the Canadian Committee of the International Council on Social Welfare and the Canadian Association of Housing and Renewal. This conference, which will deal with housing for the needy, will be held in the fall of 1987. The Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation is now looking into the possibility of financing further conferences and forums of this kind.
Mr. Speaker, Operation Africa 2000 which was launched by me in the House on May 6 of this year is an example of Canada's determination to help the people of Africa's rural areas to overcome famine and break out of the poverty cycle. Only a few days ago, at the Annual Convention of the Canadian Federation of Municipalities, I was very much impressed by the desire shown by representatives of our towns and cities to get involved in international development. The Federation has already launched a pilot project enabling
authorities from Third World towns and their Canadian counterparts to become better acquainted and exchange comments on their respective problems. This may result in useful co-operation.
Such initiatives, like others to be taken by Canada during the International Year of Shelter for the Homeless, are only a first step. Nevertheless, they bring us closer to the day when every family and every human being will be able to have not only a decent diet, pure water, primary health care and education, but decent housing, as well.


As usual, Mr. Speaker, the Minister is always the exception which confirms the rule, and I want to thank her for advising us of her statement on Friday instead of following the tradition of her colleagues who tell us about a statement only an hour or half an hour before delivery. Again I commend and thank the Minister.
The only thing I deplore, and I am convinced the Minister feels the same way, is that we cannot devote more time this morning to the topic of the statement-she spoke for two and a half minutes, which will give me hardly four minutes on such a wide-ranging, significant and tragic issue. I know that the Minister and Hon. Members who are interested in this question regret this.
That being so, I can only support the initiative of the United Nations which have decided to set a year aside for reflection. However I must say that preparations were made for this International Year of Shelter for the Homeless.
Those who watched television last night were once again made vividly aware of big problems the world over. Whether we are talking about slums, as she said herself, or favelas in Third World cities, I think the situation of the homeless is tragic.
Yet it is obvious that we too have people who are suffering, be they on Indian lands or in Vancouver, those people who were thrown out of low rental units to accommodate Expo visitors-it will be a success and I urge Canadians to go there-but this could be done only by moving homeless people. It is imperative that we reflect on this and make Governments aware that homeless people also deserve assistance.
But what does the Canadian example represent in light of what is going on throughout the world? Of course there is no common measure.
I have always said, as I did again last Friday evening here in the House when Africa was the topic of debate-and the

June 16, 1986
Statements by Ministers
Minister says so on page three of her statement, on the occasion of the meeting of cities and towns-I said and I repeat that when Canadians are well informed they are always one step ahead of their Governments, regardless of their political views. It is important to properly inform the people and increase their awareness. When Canadians are properly informed of particular situations, they have always been and will continue to be more generous, understanding and open minded than any other Government.
On behalf of my party, therefore, I support this statement. We hope to see a great many initiatives during this year, a year which should not be felt to be just "another" so called international year of the United Nations on a given subject. I for one feel that we should be activists on these issues. Who has ever heard in Canada-I will conclude on this-that this year is the International Year of Peace?
Once a year has been proclaimed, we make fine statements, then we sit down and we are satisfied. We have done our share. I see that the Minister of Employment and Immigration (Mrs. MacDonald) is here; she is part of a group of activists who want to do more. We should think and be concerned about these matters on a continuing basis. On behalf of my party, I want to tell you that we have this continuing concern and I hope that it will spread everywhere; this is a non-partisan issue and I thank the Hon. Minister once more for giving us on Friday advanced notice of her statement. I hope her colleagues of the Cabinet will do the same and I can assure her that we will support any initiative that is consistent with Canada's reputation in the world.


Mr. Speaker, I say with great regret that I am deeply disappointed with the Minister's statement on behalf of the Government in respect of how Canada intends to mark International Year of Shelter for the Homeless.
The Minister has said that the Government intends to participate in a conference which will be sponsored by the Canadian Committee of the International Council on Social Welfare and the Canadian Association of Housing and Renewal. I hate to say it, but it reminds me of the kind of reaction to urgent social problems of the previous Government. In terms of announced policies, that is all the Government has.
Also the Minister commented upon the fact that the housing problem and the problem of homelessness are acute in many countries of the world. She talked about visiting the camps for refugees and the slums and favelas of the cities of the Third World. There is no question that there are desperate problems in terms of homelessness in the Third World.
I, for one, would suggest that there are certain people in Canada who would exchange our climate for that in some of the Third World cities, and favelas there for their housing conditions in Canada. I believe we cannot afford to ignore the fact that homelessness is not only found in other parts of the world. It is a reality in this country. We have an increasing number of people living in poverty and an increasing number of people who do not know from where their next meal or their meals for the next month will come. There has been a tremendous growth in food banks in almost every major city across Canada. These food banks are now feeding tens of thousands of families per month in major cities such as Ottawa, Vancouver, Edmonton, Toronto, and Halifax. It is an indication of the greater degree of poverty that is finding root in the country than we had known just a few years ago. Some 4.5 million Canadians are living in poverty. There has been an increase of some 800,000 people from the beginning of the 1980s, and the situation appears to be getting worse, not better.
I should like to refer to my own situation, representing a riding on the doorstep of Parliament Hill. I know that homeless is not something abstract to be found in Africa, Latin America, or Asia; it exists right here. People who are homelessness find their way onto the Mall and into the Rideau Centre during the winter. The good citizens of Ottawa complain about them, but the reason they are there is that they have no other place to go which is at all warm and protected from the weather. If they are lucky, they may be able to get to a shelter at night.
People will recall how the citizens of Toronto and of Canada in general were shocked at the death by freezing of Drina Joubert in December of last year. It brought home, in a very dramatic way, how a woman of good background was pushed into abject poverty and ultimately to death because she fell through the cracks in our system.
We have some 20,000 to 40,000 people who live on the streets in Canada now. We have many Canadians living in desperately substandard housing conditions. Let us look in particular at our native population. People from other countries, when they see Canada being critical of actions of other countries, say that we are sanctimonious because of what happens with our own native population. I suspect they are right. For example, nearly half the Indian dwellings in the Northwest Territories have more than one person per room. Just over half the Indian dwellings in Yukon have no central heating. A third of the Indian dwellings in the Northwest Territories need major repairs. These situations exist here in Canada.
I urge the Government in the strongest possible way to do more about homelessness than just have a conference. We should have a commitment before the 1988 election to wipe out homelessness in Canada. We have the resources to do it, if we had the political will.
June 16, 1986


Order for Return
2.	What is the total cost to the Government to operate both?
Mr. Speaker, as Chairman, I have the honour to present the report of the legislative committee on Bill C-45, an Act respecting employment, employer, and employee relations in the Senate and the House of Commons, with amendments, in both official languages.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the first report of the Standing Committee on External Affairs and International Trade.
This report focuses on the work and function of the new Communications and Cultures Branch of the Department of External Affairs. The report itself is not unusual, but I commend the process to you, Sir, and to my colleagues.
[Editor's Note: See Today's Votes and Proceedings]


Canadian High Commission in	Canadian Embassy in Paris
London
1.	(a) 285
(i)	Canada based employees 85
Locally engaged *	200
(ii)	Canada based $3,418,000 Locally engaged $3,730,000
(b)	Trade Officers:	14(c)	Non-Canadians:	312.	$12,317,000
Total costs to operate the High Commission in London including Canada based and locally engaged personnel costs, post operating and capital budgets.
74

Total costs to operate the Embassy in Paris including Canada based and locally engaged personnel costs and the post operating and capital budgets.
* *
*
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour and privilege to present to the House of Commons a number of petitions containing the names of several hundred individuals in Metropolitan Toronto. They request that the Government intervene in the issue of gasoline prices at the pump and insist that any decrease in the cost of crude oil be passed on to consumers.


Mr. Speaker, if question No. 567 could be made an order for return, the return would be tabled immediately.


The question enumerated by the Parliamentary Secretarty has been answered. Is it the pleasure of the House that question No. 567 be deemed to have been made an order for return?


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following question will be answered today: No. 396.


1. How many employees are working at the (a) Canadian High Commission in London, England (b) Canadian Embassy in Paris, France and, in each case, what is the (i) category (ii) salary of the employee (b) how many are trade officers (c) how many are non-Canadians?


Agreed.


As of January 1, 1986, were any Department of Public Works construction projects under way in the Province of New Brunswick and, if so, what were they?
Return tabled.


Mr. Speaker, I ask that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Shall the remaining questions stand?


Agreed.


May I advise the House that because of the ministerial statement, Government Orders will be extended by

June 16, 1986
Business of the House
12 minutes, beginning at ten o'clock this evening. Therefore, the adjournment proceedings will begin at 10.12 p.m.


As you know, Mr. Speaker, we have been working for some time to try to finalize Private Members' Business so that Private Members will get their allotted time and Private Members' Hour will go ahead.
I have for presentation to the House a draft Order, upon which representatives of all three Parties worked. Your Honour may find unanimous consent to pass the following draft Order:
That, notwithstanding any Standing or Special Order of this House, the Order for the consideration of Private Members' Business during the period commencing this day until Thursday, June 19, 1986 shall be as follows:
1.	Motions (papers) No. 16-Mr. Boudria (Monday, June 16, 1986)
2.	Motion No. 119-Mr. Manly (Tuesday, June 17, 1986)
3.	Bill C-270-Mr. Fulton (Wednesday, June 18, 1986)
4.	Bill C-208-Mr. Isabelle (Thursday, June 19, 1986)
Provided that the privisions of the Special Order adopted on Wednesday, June 11, 1986 and Standing Orders 42 and 72 shall be deemed to be in force for the purposes of this Order and that during the hour that would otherwise be used for the consideration of Private Members' Business on Friday, June 20, 1986, the House shall consider government business.


The House has heard the motion which requires unanimous consent to be introduced. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to and so ordered.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. We had a Minister's statement today which took up 12 minutes of House time. I think there would be a disposition in the House to agree that that 12 minutes will not be added on to the end of today's standard sitting. If that meets the unanimous consent of the House, I am prepared to make that proposal, and I hope it will pass without debate.


Do I take it there is a unanimous desire in the House not to apply the rule with regard to the application of extension of time.


Agreed.


Therefore, the adjournment proceedings will begin at 10 p.m. tonight.


The House resumed from Friday, June 13, consideration of the motion of Mr. Wilson (Etobicoke Centre) that Bill C-96, an Act to amend the Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal Post-Secondary Education and Health Contributions Act, 1977, be read the third time and passed.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to speak to Bill C-96. In my view Bill C-96 is one of the most important pieces of legislation with which the House has dealt since it started sitting in late 1984. This piece of legislation affects in a very dramatic way the level of funding to the provincial Governments for postsecondary education and health care in Canada. In fact, the Bill has the effect of reducing the level of federal transfer payments from 7.5 per cent to 5 per cent.
I think it is important at the outset to try to determine first what the motivation was behind the introduction of this Bill and, second, what impact Bill C-96 will have on post-secondary education and health care.
First, concerning motivation, it is obvious that the Conservative Government is extremely concerned about the deficit. We share that concern. Where we do not agree with the Conservative Government is the method by which the federal deficit should be reduced or managed. It is obvious that the Conservative Government is prepared to do almost anything to balance the books. The Government tried unsuccessfully to reduce the indexation of senior citizens pensions in its first budget. That particular measure was universally condemned by the people of Canada and the Government of Canada was forced to back down.
The motivation behind that measure I submit is the same motivation that prompted the Conservative Government, through the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson), to introduce Bill C-96, that is, deficit reduction. The people of Canada spoke very forcefully and vigorously when the Government tried to deindex senior citizens pensions. Canadians said it was unfair and unjust for the Government of Canada to try to reduce the deficit on the backs of senior citizens. They said it was wrong to attempt to reduce the deficit on the backs of any disadvantaged group in society, be they the disabled, the elderly, the young or the unemployed. It is not fair to pick on disadvantaged people and ask them to bear the brunt of deficit reduction.
In the first budget not only did the Government intend to reduce the indexation for senior citizen pensions, but it also proposed there be a capital gains deduction, a $125,000 cash bonanza for the wealthy in society. Canadians asked where was the justice and the fairness in that. They said if you want
June 16, 1986

to reduce the deficit that is your goal, but why, pray tell, pick on the senior citizens and then almost in the same breath give away to the wealthy in society what will amount to millions and millions of dollars over the foreseeable future? That is not economic justice, Mr. Speaker. It is cruel and insensitive. I submit that the Government in introducing Bill C-96 is being unjust and unfair. In effect it is once again attacking the disadvantaged in society, those I suppose who are least able to speak for themselves.
If there ever was a sacred trust, Mr. Speaker, that sacred trust is health care and education in Canada. Each and every one of us in this House and every Canadian from coast to coast has come to appreciate the level of health care and postsecondary education because it is second to none in the world. We have the best system anywhere and we ought to be extremely proud that regardless of where one lives in Canada, whether in a region that is economically prosperous or in a region that is economically poor, we are entitled by virtue of the fact that we live in this beautiful country to a certain level of education, a high quality of education. It does not matter whether one is born to riches or to rags, every young person is entitled to that quality of education. Likewise, it does not matter where one lives in Canada, what occupation or what vocation one has in life, whether a politician or a truck driver, we are entitled to a very high quality of health care. Those are basic, fundamental and sacred trusts. Any attempt by Government, or for that matter anyone, to derogate from those rights or to diminish the quality of health care or postsecondary education should be dealt with in a very forceful way. Yet here we have the Government of Canada, the Conservative Government that plays a major role ensuring the sacredness of that trust, ensuring equality of health care and education, introducing Bill C-96.
What is the impact of Bill C-96? Over the next five years, the provinces and territories will receive $8.1 billion less than they otherwise would receive were it not been for Bill C-96. This Bill is meant to transfer the deficit from the federal Government to the provincial Governments. Over the next five years $8.1 billion will be cut. If one looks at the reduction in the various provinces, for example in the province where I reside, just under $3 billion less will be going to the provincial Government from the federal Government in Ontario for health care and post-secondary education.
We know the problems that already exist in the Province of Ontario concerning health care and post-secondary education. I would suggest it is a legacy of the previous Conservative Government in Ontario. Is it any wonder that the good people of Ontario turfed out those Tories a year ago. That Government dared to threaten the quality of health care and postsecondary education in that province. Over the next five years Ontario will receive $2.9 billion less. If the Government of Ontario is to maintain the quality of health care and postsecondary education which exists in Ontario, it will have to come up with an additional $3 billion in revenue over the next five years.
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act
Mr. Nixon, the Treasurer of Ontario, will be asking how that can be done. As a result of Bill C-96 he has some very tough decisions to make. The Province of Ontario can either increase taxes by $3 billion over the next five years or it can cut services. It would have to cut in the area of health care and post-secondary education. That could be done by reducing the number of hospital beds or the level of research and development in the hospitals and universities. Class sizes could be increased and teaching staffs could be paid less. However, that is not acceptable. There is already a desperate shortage of financing for those particular areas in the Province of Ontario.
We in Ontario consider ourselves fortunate even though we are in a most difficult situation with regard to health care and post-secondary education. Notwithstanding that the quality is second to none, the costs increase yearly. If one is to maintain or increase that quality, which should be a goal of government, there must be a commitment and the political will to ensure it. We in Ontario will suffer tremendously under this Bill. Ontario has often been referred to as a "have province". What will the impact be on the "have not" provinces, the provinces which, because of regional disparities and other factors, are suffering more than the have provinces with regard to economic renewal?
What about Atlantic Canada? The Province of Newfoundland suffers from one of the highest unemployment rates in Canada and has some very serious financial problems. Over the next five years it will receive $200 million less than it would if the present agreement were honoured. Prince Edward Island will receive $41 million less than it would otherwise have received. Nova Scotia will receive $283 million less over the next five years. New Brunswick will receive $229 million less. Every province and region of Canada will suffer as a result of this Bill. The provinces are crying out to the Government of Canada that this is not fair. They are also saying that the Government has reneged on a contract. It has breached an agreement to increase federal transfer payments by 7.5 per cent.
When the Government took office two short years ago the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) told the people of Canada that there was a new era of federal-provincial relations and national reconciliation. You must recall those words, Mr. Speaker, because they are still ringing in the ears of every Premier in Canada. The Government said that it would consult before it acted. It said that, unlike the Liberal Party of the past, it would consult rather than acting unilaterally. That is what was said.


That is what they do.


Hear, hear!


That is what was said, but what do they do? What happened to the consultation and the new era of national reconciliation? The Government unilaterally imposed these cuts and restrictions. Given the Government's pronouncements
_________________________________COMMONS DEBATES__________________________________June 16, 1986
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act
m the early days of its mandate, one would think that it would call a meeting of first Ministers or Finance Ministers to tell them what it intended to do and to ask their opinions. The Government did not do that. It broke a contract with the provinces and all Premiers have condemned the Government. They have brought into question the credibility and integrity of the Government.
Canadians are saying that the Conservative Government has frittered away the trust and mandate it was given by the people of Canada in September, 1984. In a very dramatic fashion the people of Canada gave the Prime Minister and the Conservative Party a tremendous mandate for change. That is now gone. All that is left of the mandate is Conservative bodies in the House of Commons. According to any public opinion poll to which you wish to refer, the Conservative Party has lost that support and mandate. In fact, I suggest that the Conservative Party is very quickly losing its right to govern in Canada. The people of Canada will not forget. One of the central issues of Bill C-96 is credibility, honesty and integrity.
On March 23, 1982, a very prominent member of the
Conservative Cabinet said:
The only sign (the federal Government) shows of cutting spending is by shifting the burden of the established programs funding on to the provincial governments. The provinces are now moving into a deficit position, a position which will make it more difficult for them to finance this shift in spending.... That is not co-operative federalism. That is predatory federalism and it will not and cannot work in this country.
The famous Canadian who made that statement in the House of Commons on March 23, 1982, was none other than the Minister of Finance, the same Minister who introduced Bill C-96. Was he being sincere then or is he being sincere today? These are the words forever entrenched in Hansard for every Canadian to read. He went on to say:
Taking the action of unilaterally cutting the financing, which the Government is now proposing, and then having some discussions with the provinces, surely puts the cart before the horse. We should be reversing this procedure.
That was on March 24, 1982, page 15774-5 of Hansard, the now Minister of Finance speaking. Is it any wonder Canadians question the credibility of this Government?
The Liberal Party will not sit idly by and watch that Conservative Government attack some very basic institutions. The Liberal Party will not sit idly by and watch that Government attack post-secondary education or health care funding. We will stand up for the youth of Canada who are losing hope because of that Government. The Government is sending a message to the young people of Canada in the different measures it has taken, such as cutting Katimavik. The message our young people are getting is that Government does not care.
It is more concerned about its wealthy friends on Bay Street and more paranoid about the deficit than the well-being of the young. The Liberal Party believes very strongly that our youth are our future. Once you take away their hope, there is nothing left. Our young people deserve that hope.
I note you have indicated my time is up. I would ask for unanimous consent of the House to continue-


Oh, no!


-with my submissions. I note Conservative Members are all saying no because they do not want to hear about this legislation. I will therefore anxiously await their questions or their speeches to learn how they might justify this cruel and insensitive legislation which we will fight tooth and nail all along the line.


Questions or comments?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask my colleague about the effect of this Bill on education in his own province. The Government is talking about free trade. How can we go into free trade negotiations if we reduce the opportunities for higher education for our youth? Can he describe to us what the situation would be in his own Province of Ontario if this legislation is implemented?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my colleague for asking that very important question. I would also note that not one Conservative Member of Parliament stood up to ask a question. Not one single solitary Conservative Member of Parliament had the courage to stand up and try to defend this Bill or criticize my submissions. That means they are either sleeping, and I do not believe they are unless they have mastered the art of sleeping with their eyes open, or that this legislation is indefensible and they agree whole-heartedly with each and every word I spoke.
In response to my colleague, I would point out that the Province of Ontario is extremely worried about this legislation.
I pointed out earlier that Ontario will receive $3 billion less over the next five years in federal transfer payments. This very directly affects the universities that are already under-funded because of the previous provincial Conservative Government. The new Liberal Government of Ontario has already introduced measures to increase the financing and therefore the quality of post-secondary education which was tragically neglected by the previous Government.
Chief Justice Dickson of the Supreme Court of Canada recently spoke out on this issue. One cannot help but agree whole-heartedly with what he said in pointing out that universities are desperately short of money. He said:
It has been said by many people that education is too important to be left to educators. That may be true. But it is also true that education is too important to be left to ministers of finance.
This Bill is from the Minister of Finance and what the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada is saying is that he does not trust Ministers of Finance to deal with education because invariably the educational system is threatened. He goes on to say:
Second-class funding of universities will inevitably lead to second-class teachers, second-class students and-ultimately-a second-class nation.
COMMONS DEBATES_________________________________________14429
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act
June 16, 1986
That is the crux of the issue. We have no doubt that this legislation will render our universities into second-class institutions because of its insensitive nature. Universities need money to operate and the increases should be more than simply the rate of inflation. Universities conduct research and are continually striving to increase the quality of education. One cannot simply say that as long as financing keeps up with the rate of inflation it will suffice. It is not good enough. They need more, and it has been shown that universities suffer more when their funding increases are pegged to the inflation rate.
Students and professors, indeed all those involved with universities, have roundly condemned this legislation. I need not quote all those individuals and groups who appeared before the committee. Suffice it to say that there was a very strong message delivered to the Conservative Government, but it has fallen upon deaf ears. In pressing for this legislation the Government is once again showing that it is not listening to Canadians, notwithstanding the lofty pronouncements it made over a year ago.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to compliment the Hon. Member for-


Oh, oh!


-York South-Weston (Mr. Nunziata) for a clear and succinct description of the evidence that here again is another example of a total failure by the Government to carry out its promises. The Hon. Member quoted the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) saying the exact opposite to what he is doing in this Bill.
The Hon. Member has been talking about medicare and post-secondary education. Does he not think that in Ontario, which pays the largest amount of taxes of any province and therefore shares more with other provinces, will now not only be paying more as its share but also will be losing something like S2.9 billion by 1992? Will the Hon. Member give the House an idea of how Ontario is going to find this money? Will it raise taxes to make up the $2.9 billion loss despite the fact we will still be paying a larger share to the other provinces because the federal Government has failed to keep its promises of the last election, particularly those made by the Minister of Finance? What effect will this have on other things under the the provincial Government in Ontario? What about the municipalities? Is it going to mean less money from the Province of Ontario to the municipalities and, hence, more taxes on local taxpayers? What is the downdrain effect of what this Tory Government is doing to every Canadian right down to their individual homes today?


I would like to thank my hon. colleague for his question. His points are extremely well taken in terms of what impact there will be in the Province of Ontario. I would submit, thank goodness, in the Province of Ontario we have a Liberal Government headed by Premier David Peterson who is very sensitive to the needs of the universities, and to the needs
of hospitals and the health care system in Ontario. He will be faced with a very difficult decision, together with his Treasurer, Mr. Nixon. The Government of the Province of Ontario will have, in some way, to make up the shortfall of $3 billion. I have every confidence in the Liberal Government of Ontario that before they in any way diminish the level of health care and post-secondary education that they will look to other measures first. I very strongly and sincerely believe that the Government of the Province of Ontario has its priorities straight and is fair in terms of its deliberations.
If there have to be cuts, and we hope that there will not have to be cuts-it is almost inevitable given this legislation-then the Government of Ontario will no doubt look to other areas before it looks to health care and post-secondary education, if at all. Of course the other option is to raise taxes, but that is not really an option in the Province of Ontario, which already pays a tremendous amount of taxes. My hon. collegue is quite right, municipalities will no doubt bear the brunt of Bill C-96.
I note you have indicated that my time is up, but I would simply in closing ask the Government to reconsider the legislation in view of the almost universal condemnation of Bill C-96.


Mr. Speaker, I consider it a welcome part of the responsibilities of a Member of this House to bring to bear some comments on Bill C-96. I have to confess that my stomach is feeling a little uncomfortable today. I am experiencing some nauseau, and, therefore, I want to express my appreciation to the House in denying an extension of time to the Member for York South Weston (Mr. Nunziata) because had he continued I doubt that I would have been able to continue my presence here without having to exit for a serious medical purpose.
We just heard a Member of the Liberal Party, which only a very short time ago held the Government of this country, the Government that was responsible in 1982 for the first shot at decreasing the rate of increase in funding to post-secondary education, stand in this House and attribute exclusive culpability to the present Government. I note too that he was lauding the progress made in the Province of Ontario, and of course there has been some, but it is worth noting that even after the slightly progressive changes in financing of post-secondary education which have been implemented by the provincial Government of Ontario, Ontario still stands very low on the totem pole with respect to post-secondary education, a position which has to be an embarrassment when we are compared to other poorer provinces in this country much more strapped than Ontario with higher rates of unemployment and less advanced industrial development. Many of the provinces are making more progress with respect to post-secondary education than the Province of Ontario even now.
Of course the Tory Government, which is responsible for introducing this Bill, is guilty. It is guilty of failing to meet the promises it made during the course of the election. One need only to refer to the Progressive Conservative policy statement

June 16, 1986
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act
that "We are committed to sustaining the current federal financial commitment according to the formula set out in the 1977 agreement. We believe that financing of post-secondary education is an imporant priority for both levels of Government".
Indeed, it is a priority for both levels of government. That brings attention to one of the significant tragedies of the enactment of this legislation at this time. We are going to cut, over the next five years, EPF transfer payments by about $7 billion. This we are going to do in the face of protestations from the provinces. It has to be a step that everyone must regard as inconsistent with promises of consultation. It must be regarded as the height of stupidity at a time when most would argue that the federal Government and the provincial Governments ought to be coming to some sort of an agreement with respect to defined levels of support for post-secondary education and health.
How can you expect to enter into productive negotiations for assured levels of post-secondary funding at the provincial and federal level, particularly when one seeks to find a commitment on the part of the provinces to initiate the process, by cutting funding of EPF.
Let me just say parenthetically that I am perfectly conscious and very much concerned about the implications to the health system of these cuts. Others within my party will address that specifically. I want to address this issue particularly from the perspective of two areas; youth policy and the development of a national science and technology policy.
The motivation of this legislation is to cut the deficit. Indeed, I heard someone from among Members opposite say in committee that if we can just get this deficit under control we will then be able to do something for post-secondary education and health.
If one looks at the deficit, and looks at it seriously, one inevitably is going to be concerned about it. Rational people are always concerned about a situation in which one spends more than one takes in. If one looks at the reasons for the federal deficit, surely among all the factors to which it can be attributed the most important is that there are serious deficiencies in the economy of this country. In its brightest moments this Government has identified the reasons for our economic deficiencies. Yet it has not managed to target in on the need for a more highly developed industrial base and greater commitment to research and technological development. In that way what is recognized in an analytical sense is often what must be done. The message from this surely is that small increases in expenditures, or a realloction of funds, or rearrangement of priorities should be sought to ensure that our industrial base, our secondary manufacturing and, most specifically, our science and technology will be enhanced.
Last week I had the pleasure of participating in a national forum on science policy which was convened by the Minister of
State for Science and Technology (Mr. Oberle), a step for which he certainly should be congratulated. Representatives from all those sectors concerned about the development of research, science and technology in this country were in attendance at that meeting.
There was some difference of opinion on a number of areas concerning the enhancement of science and technology in this country. However, there was absolute unanimity with respect to the need to do something about basic research and the quality of and accessibility to our post-secondary institutions. There was unanimity that the cuts in the rate of increase in Established Programs Financing was detrimental to the development of a future for this country that would be adaptable to the world-wide economic circumstances which we must challenge. No one dissented from that point of view.
It must have been extremely embarrassing to the Minister, who I am sure was sincere in attempting to begin the development of science and technology policy, to be exposed as being part of a Government that would deprive the post-secondary system of the much needed opportunity to improve and enable us to better compete.
One might ask whether there has been any serious effort by the Government to elaborate a strategy for the future or whether it is interested in only one thing, the bilateral free trade negotiations. At times it seems that the bilateral free trade negotiations are a substitute for policy development. The Government seems unwilling to develop such a policy in all the areas where serious investment must be made.
I have already indicated that post-secondary education does not only involve research and development, but the education of a skilled workforce. I must confess that in the course of the discussions at the forum last week, I objected to some degree to hearing young people referred to as our most valuable human resource. I think that is probably a reflection of the same kind of attitudinal problem we have toward research, science and technology and the development of a solid, modern industrial base. We are so preoccupied with our resource base-our fish, trees and so on-that we cannot recognize the need to be concerned about young people unless we identify them as a resource, like fish, trees and forests. This fact is another reason for my concern about this issue. Our young people are being ignored as a result of depriving the postsecondary system of necessary funding, failing to enter into appropriate negotiations with the provinces, and (taking action which would forestall appropriate negotiations.
The Government purports to be in the process of developing a policy for youth. Whenever the issue of a youth policy arises, the Minister of Employment and Immigration (Miss MacDonald), or her shadow, seem to convey the notion that the only issue with respect to a youth policy is whether Challenge '86 or the Canadian Jobs Strategy is functioning. We know that both those programs have been called into question. I simply want to draw to the attention of the House that youth policy concerns a number of issues besides training programs. Such a policy involves doing something besides enhancing a
June 16, 1986

program that already increases the bias against the ability of the very poor and low income people to obtain training. It concerns increasing the opportunity for all classes of young people to have access to a good university and college system.
The Hon. Member for York South-Weston earlier lauded the Canadian post-secondary system as being one of the best in the world. He said that it is possible to go to some kind of postsecondary institution anywhere in the country. It is true that we have universal accessibility to a second-rate university system that will be made worse by the action of the Government, as it was made worse by the failures of the previous Liberal Government. A youth policy must attend to accessibility and quality of the post-secondary system. One does not begin developing a youth policy by cutting back the federal commitment to a system that is so important to our future.
During the hearings in the legislative committee on Bill C-96, one might have thought that there would be someone with responsibility and concern for the post-secondary system who would have supported this idea that we really should cut the federal contribution to post-secondary education and health because it will accomplish something that will benefit youth and enhance our efforts in improving the future economic status of this country. However, when one looks through what was said in the committee, one finds just the opposite. For example, the Canadian Teachers' Federation stated:
Adequately funded post-secondary institutions are absolutely vital to Canada's social, economic and cultural development.
To cut back on the national commitment to the funding of post-secondary education will short change future generations of young people whose education will suffer as a result... Canada's ability to survive and prosper in more and more competitive world markets will be impaired.
Did the Canadian Union of Public Employees rush in to suggest that EPF cuts will benefit our youth and Canada's economic future? They said:
Every day our members experience the cruel effects of cutbacks and underfunding. They are the people who are underpaid and overworked, and they are the people who are not being allowed to do a good job because of underfunding.
The Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada submitted a brief to the committee. They state:
We are opposed to this Bill because it may lead to a further erosion of the financial base of universities. We believe that such a consequence would be detrimental to the interests of Canada.
They go on to say:
Bill C-96 is a dangerous piece of legislation.
Indeed it is. Did the Government receive support from the Association of Canadian Community Colleges? No. They see a threat to their continued value as a means of access to opportunity for young people.
The Canadian Association of University Teachers is a group that represents people who have the capacity to analyse and reach reasonable conclusions about the appropriateness of legislation. They certainly would be expected to see the
Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act
tremendous value in Bill C-96 which motivates the Government to bring it before the House. What do they say? "Funding cuts did not occur over the past decade because policymakers at either level of Government were concerned with quality; they were made because Government Leaders decided to increase spending money on buying stocks in oil companies, on bailing out inefficient banks, on building under-used airports and on refurbishing Ministers' offices". Calling attention, simultaneously, Mr. Speaker, to the tremendous commitment of the previous level of Government and how much better it was than the present Government! Ha!
And then, from the Canadian Federation of Students:
Limiting the growth of EPF transfers to the provinces as outlined in Bill C-96 will compound the underfunding problems which have become evident at postsecondary institutions across the country.
But if they had any doubt whatever about the critical stupidity of this legislation and how dangerous this legislation is, how inconsistent with all the pronouncements of Government this legislation is, how it threatens the future of not only our youth but also our economy, then go to the unusual statement made by a Justice of the Supreme Court who departed from practice because the issue was so important. Mr. Justice Dickson said:
Let me speak first to Governments, provincial and federal. Please do not choke off the funding of universities. Canada must have good universities with outstanding teachers and world class research facilities. Second funding of universities will inevitably lead to second-class teachers, second-class students and, ultimately, second-class nation.
Two consecutive Governments have been committed to a second-class post-secondary system in this country and it is about time that this process was called to a halt in the interests of our nation's future, in the interests not only of our human resources but also of our youth.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the concerns raised by my hon. colleague. As I indicated earlier, this particular caucus, this Liberal caucus, shares in the profound concern regarding Bill C-96.
I note that the Hon. Member also referred to statements made by Mr. Justice Dickson, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada, who has, over the years, expressed very serious concerns about the level of post-secondary education financing in Canada. The Hon. Member also referred to statements I made about the levels of health care and post-secondary education being second to none in the world. I am sure that he does not disagree with me when I say that we do have the finest post-secondary education system anywhere in the world, but that it is being threatened by actions at various levels of government and that Bill C-96 is one such threat. However, at this particular point in time, notwithstanding the desperate lack of funding, we still have an educational system that we can be proud of. We must maintain that standing. I would not go so far as to say that our postsecondary education has been rendered second class yet; but,

Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements Act given Bill C-96 and other actions of the Conservative Government, that may be inevitable over the very near future.
It is important that people like Mr. Justice Dickson speak out. Although his statements met with some criticism, if one looks at the merits of what he had to say, one finds he made a lot of sense. People suggest that judges should not speak out; but in my view, and this is a personal view, when matters are so fundamental as post-secondary education, there is a role for the judiciary to play.
My question to the Hon. Member is with respect to a statement made by Mr. Justice Hall, another judge who reviewed health care in Canada a few short years ago. He said there were fundamental needs, like education, which Canadians could meet collectively and pay through taxes. In effect, concerning post-secondary education and health care, he said there is a sacred trust and that, if necessary, taxes should be increased to maintain a particular level.
I would like the Hon. Member to share his views and he has expressed them with respect to post-secondary education. In his community of Windsor, what impact will there be as a result of a cut-back in the level of financing for health services?


Mr. Speaker, I gather there are a number of questions contained in the comments by the Hon. Member. Obviously, we are faced with severe problems with respect to ho