["I thank the Hon. Deputy Prime Minister. It being one o'clock p.m., I do now leave the Chair until two o'clock p.m.\nAt 1 p.m. the House took recess."]
I indicated to the House yesterday that I would be prepared to rule at eleven o'clock this morning on the matter which was raised yesterday by the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Lewis) who moved under Tabling of Documents that the House should now proceed to Motions. It was evident that the effect of this motion, if carried, would be to supersede all intervening routine proceedings. I invited argument on the admissibility of the motion and reserved my decision.

The contributions made by all Hon. Members who participated in the discussion were very forthright. A number of valid points were raised and the Chair appreciated the force of the arguments which were made.

The Hon. Member for Burnaby (Mr. Robinson) referred to my ruling of November 24, 1986, in which I stated that a motion having the effect of superseding a number of items under Routine Proceedings would be inappropriate and that we should proceed from item to item. In reserving my decision yesterday, I was very conscious that I had made that ruling and that the motion moved yesterday by the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the Privy Council was without precedent. The two motions are indeed similar but the circumstances are considerably different. However, the concerns of the Chair remain the same.
The Hon. Member for Churchill (Mr. Murphy) suggested that the only motion which could be moved during Routine Proceedings was one to proceed to the Orders of the Day. However much I may be inclined to agree with him, the fact remains that we have a number of precedents to the contrary. The Hon. Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Mazankowski) stated:
If the consideration of Routine Proceedings is to be considered a sacred process, item by item, then we will have to go back and re-examine the dilatory motions and the procedural tactics, as well as the procedural acceptability of some of these dilatory motions.
The Chair fully agrees with this statement. The Hon. Deputy Prime Minister also stated that there surely has to be some balance, and with this comment the Chair also agrees.

The Hon. Member for Windsor West claimed that a superseding motion can only be accepted when there is something before the House to be superseded. The Hon. Member for Cape Breton-East Richmond (Mr. Dingwall) reinforced this point when he said that the precondition for a superseding motion is that there be debate on the floor of the House. It would be difficult to quarrel with the logic of these arguments and I believe they strengthen the case for a total review of the admissibility of dilatory motions during Routine Proceedings.
A number of Hon. Members dealt with the importance of protecting the fundamental rights members have under Routine Proceedings. However, the fundamental rights of members can be violated by the tactics of obstruction as well as by the unreasonable restriction of debate. The Hon. Member for Cochrane-Superior (Mr. Penner) went to the heart of the matter when he stated that the procedural tactics which the House has witnessed have little to do with the content of Bill C-22. As I made clear yesterday, the Chair is not the least bit interested in the content of the Bill. The Chair is, however, gravely concerned with the effect of these tactics by either side on the well-being of the House of Commons.
The House has had before it for almost six months a highly controversial piece of legislation, namely, Bill C-22, an Act to amend the Patent Act. This is not the first time the House has had to deal with controversial legislation, neither will it be the last. It is essential to our democratic system that controversial issues should be debated at reasonable length so that every reasonable opportunity shall be available to hear the arguments pro and con and that reasonable delaying tactics should be permissible to enable opponents of a measure to enlist public support for their point of view. Sooner or later every issue must be decided and the decision will be taken by a majority. Rules of procedure protect both the minority and the majority. They are designed to allow the full expression of views on both sides of an issue. They provide the Opposition with a means to delay a decision. They also provide the majority with a means of limiting debate in order to arrive at a decision. This is the kind of balance essential to the procedure

April 14, 1987
Procedure-Speaker's Ruling
of a democratic assembly. Our rules were certainly never designed to permit the total frustration of one side or the other, the total stagnation of debate, or the total paralysis of the system.

Bill C-22 was first introduced on November 6, 1986 and given first reading on November 7, following a division in both cases. The strong opposition to the Bill led to the use of procedural tactics for purposes of delay to which the Government responded with procedural tactics of their own. Seven divisions took place prior to the introduction of the Bill, most of them resulting from the moving of dilatory motions during Routine Proceedings. Fourteen more divisions, most of them again resulting from the moving of dilatory motions during Routine Proceedings, took place before the Bill obtained a second reading on December 8, 1986.
The Bill was referred to a Legislative Committee which reported it back to the House with amendments on March 16, 1987, after 24 meetings and 82 hours of debate as the Deputy Prime Minister pointed out. Numerous amendments were proposed at the report stage to which four days have so far been devoted.
On April 7, the Hon. Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs (Mr. Andre) gave notice of an allocation of time motion in terms of S. O. 117. This Standing Order was adopted by the House in 1968 and has been regularly used ever since. It is a legitimate procedure provided it is not abused and it has been employed by governments both Liberal and Progressive Conservative without any procedural challenge to their right to do so.

As the House knows, dilatory tactics prevented the House from reaching motions on two successive days last week. On the third day, Friday, the Government undertook not to proceed with its allocation of time motion respecting Bill C-22 and by mutual agreement Routine Proceedings did not take place. The tactical battle has unfortunately become a substitute for debate. Opponents of the Bill have used various devices to delay the passage of this Bill at its successive stages. The Government has countered by using superseding motions having the opposite effect. To the viewing public, these tactics must be totally meaningless. Our procedures are being used for purposes for which they were never originally intended, and the public could be pardoned for believing that our rules have no logical basis at all.
In the kind of situation which faces us, I have no doubt that negotiation provides the only route to a satisfactory solution. However, when negotiations fail there comes a time when the Chair is obliged to consider what its own responsibilities are. One of the functions of the Speaker is to ensure that the House is able to transact its business. This does not mean that the Chair plays any part in assisting the Government in the management of its business agenda. I want to repeat that; this
does not mean that the Chair plays any part in assisting the Government in the management of its business agenda.
Considerable debate has already taken place on this Bill. It cannot be argued that the opportunities for airing objections to it have been unreasonably restricted. There has been considerable disruption of Routine Proceedings which, as I have said, has given me very grave concern.
I might point out that I invited Hon. Members last Wednesday, if they chose at that time, to give any advice they might have for the Speaker.
Routine Proceedings are an essential part of House business and if they are not protected the interests of the House and the public it serves are likely to suffer severely.
The moving of dilatory motions during Routine Proceedings is a very recent practice which originated in the early 1980s. I share the doubts expressed by some Hon. Members yesterday as to its procedural validity. It is a practice which can supersede the presentation of petitions, delay indefinitely the introduction of Bills-those of Private Members as well as those of the Government-and completely block debate on motions for concurrence in committee reports as well as on allocation of time motions. These arguments were made very effectively by Hon. Members in the course of their contributions yesterday. The Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier (Mr. Gauthier) argued very strongly that during Routine Proceedings a member should be recognized only for the purpose contemplated by the particular rubric under which he or she rises. Since Routine Proceedings have been moved to the morning on three days of the week, these problems have been aggravated. However, this is a broader issue which will need to be addressed at another time.
The immediate question which faces the Chair is whether the motion moved yesterday by the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the Privy Council is acceptable or not. I recognize that if we are to adhere rigidly to recent precedents, including my own ruling of November 24, 1986, the motion would have to be ruled unacceptable. The House is nevertheless facing an impasse which it has been unable to resolve for itself. There comes a time when the Chair has to face its responsibilities. When circumstances change and the Rules of Procedure provide no solution, the Chair must fall back on its discretion in the interests of the House and all its members. This may require the Chair to modify or vary an earlier decision.
In using my discretion, I believe I am supported by the centuries old tradition which attaches to the Office of Speaker. It was Speaker Lenthall who, in the reign of Charles I, declared in the presence of the King that the Speaker's first duty lay to the House of Commons. It was Speaker Brand who in 1881 ended the paralysis of the British House by imposing closure of his own initiative.
April 14, 1987

An eminent parliamentary authority, Josef Redlich, has written that it is the duty of the Speaker to serve the majority and the minority:
-by maintaining the rules and the usage of centuries, and by taking care that both majority and minority are not impeded in the use of the forces and the weapons which the order of business provides for strong and weak. Protection of a majority against obstruction and protection of a minority against oppression are both alike functions of the Chair.
When interpreting the rules of procedure, the Speaker must take account not only of their letter but of their spirit and be guided by the most basic rule of all, that of common sense.
The practice of using dilatory motions as a means of obstruction is undoubtedly sanctioned by our parliamentary practice. However, many parliamentary jurisdictions in the Commonwealth place restrictions on the extent to which they can be used. For example, in the British House of Commons the Speaker has the power to refuse a dilatory motion if he believes it to be an abuse of the rules of the House. By the same token, he is empowered to allow them if he believes them to be justified.
I repeat my conviction that the entire question of the use of dilatory motions during Routine Proceedings needs to be examined and that no procedures should be sanctioned which permit the House to be brought to a total standstill for an indefinite period. Division bells are no substitute for debate.

This Parliament has been a Parliament of reform. We have seen important changes implemented designed to facilitate the flow of business, increase the powers of committees, improve the opportunities of Private Members, and increase the effectiveness of our procedures.
The decision of the House to change the manner of electing its Speaker is indicative of the fact that the House of Commons has matured. Has it matured enough to confer upon its Presiding Officer the discretionary powers necessary to control abuse and resolve deadlocks that the British House of Commons gave its own Speaker over a century ago? I believe it has. [English]
Having given serious consideration to all of the arguments that have been made, I have decided that I can best serve the interests of the House by allowing the motion moved yesterday by the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the Privy Council. In doing so, I make it clear that this will not be regarded as a precedent for all time, and that in other circumstances the Chair might well disallow such a motion.
I hope all Hon. Members realize that the spirit of my decision has nothing to do with the content of Bill C-22. I am concerned only with the procedures of this House and the implications for the future of what we may do today. There are circumstances in which obstructive tactics can be an abuse of the rules of the House. Equally, notice of time allocation motions after only a few hours of debate at any stage of a Bill can also be an abuse. However, when such notice is given in the face of a lengthy report stage, after detailed consideration
Procedure-Speaker's Ruling
of a Bill has taken place during a long period of time in committee, I submit that this is a legitimate use of Standing Order 117. Both time allocation motions and dilatory motions are open to abuse. When such tactics are entered upon by either Government or Opposition the balance of democratic parliamentary government can be easily upset. The maintenance of that balance is a fundamental responsibility of the Speaker.
I wish to make it clear to all Hon. Members that if this ruling is resorted to as a precedent, the Chair will interpret it in the light of the prevailing circumstances with a view to maintaining that essential balance to which I have just referred.
I wish to make some additional comments. I have not enjoyed making this ruling. Nonetheless, that is the responsibility that, in the circumstances, Hon. Members have imposed upon me. I have accepted that responsibility with due regard to the traditions of this place which I have tried to adequately express in my ruling. The ruling which I have just made was made after intense consideration of not only our rules and our precedents but also with regard to as much common sense as I could bring to the present situation.
However, I want something to be clearly understood by all Hon. Members wherever they sit in this Chamber. I expect every Hon. Member to take my ruling in the spirit in which it is intended. It is simply this. In the absence of any clear direction according to the standing rules I have had to make a decision.
I want to address a particular concern that was made by some Hon. Members during argument on this important matter. Simply stated it is this. The result of my ruling might be that the right of Private Members to present their concerns under Routine Proceedings could be prevented and, if so, their rights as parliamentarians would be unfairly and wrongfully restricted or, indeed, extinguished. Let me answer that concern. If anyone on either side of the House tries to take what could be considered unfair advantage of my ruling, I serve clear notice that as long as I am Speaker I will not tolerate such a proposition. I have had to make a decision. It is a decision circumscribed by events. No one should presume for a moment that it ought to be used as justification for abuse of whatever form against or violence to the principles of fair play.
My ruling, admittedly, has left some discretion to the Speaker. Until there are some rule changes that help resolve the need for the Speaker to exercise, in the interests of the Chamber, this discretion as Speaker, I shall strive mightily to find an acceptable resolution of the disputes. I believe that the resolution of these inevitable and legitimate disputes should be on the basis of our traditions, our rules, our precedents, and something else as well. By this I mean what is essential to this House of Commons, that is, that well accepted but not always definable thing upon which our whole constitutional history is based. It is fair play and, perhaps I can add as I have already

April 14, 1987
Procedure-Speaker's Ruling
mentioned, common sense. I should immediately remark that common sense, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder. Nevertheless, there is a basic common sense that those of us who have to get elected understand only too well. It is, when all is said and done, the profound sense of what is appropriate under certain circumstances and which is acceptable to reasonable people.
I have tried to give Hon. Members an intellectually reasoned ruling. I have also tried to support it with a rationale that stands the test of common sense. I want to assure all Hon. Members that their Speaker will not be receptive to any abuse of either the intellectual or common sense basis of this ruling. I would hope that the difficulties of the Speaker in this situation will encourage Hon. Members to reconsider the present rules with a view to making changes which would secure the sanctity of Routine Proceedings and the legitimate interests of all Members of the House of Commons.
I want to thank all Hon. Members for their diligence and the sincerity with which they put their arguments. I hope that this ruling, while not satisfactory to all, will be accepted in the interests of this place.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. It is just for a matter of clarification. Am I to assume, then, that the motion that was put yesterday by the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary will be considered at the appropriate time?


The Chair and the Table have given some consideration to the point which the Hon. Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Mazankowski) raises. The ruling is a ruling for future events. Yesterday was yesterday. The consequence of that is that the ruling is now made and it is not for the Chair to say on what occasion either side may wish to avail themselves of it. I have tried to clarify the position in the event that such a motion is made again.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on the same point of order. I want to return to the point which I made to you yesterday and the day before with regard to the lapsing of motions. Your comments in response to the request of the Government House Leader indicate to me that you have lapsed the motion which was before the House.
I maintain that lapsing of the motion is out of order and unconstitutional. A question put to the House must be settled by vote. Although I disagree with the intent of the motion and do not think I would at any time like to sustain such a procedure, if indeed you have ruled that that motion has lapsed, I ask you what rule of this House, what Standing Order, you are using to lapse the motion.


I have taken the position in this particular case that that motion was proposed but was never before the House. The motion was proposed and at that point I invited
argument as to whether or not it could even go before the House. That is the short answer to the very legitimate question which the Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier (Mr. Gauthier) has raised. I hope that before the end of the day tomorrow I will be able to say more on this important matter which I accept as such.


Mr. Speaker, we, of course, accept and respect the decision which you have just made. We have always maintained, as we did during the bell-ringing incident a number of years ago, that the rights of Parliament to act must be maintained, otherwise there can be no parliamentary democracy. However, we are also concerned that your ruling is, in effect, a precedent if necessary but not necessarily a precedent. We will see an evolution of the role of the Speaker in this House as a result of this ruling.
The Speaker will now have to judge all the debate which takes place in the House and in committee and the actions of the Opposition and the Government every time he or she makes a ruling. I believe that means that the Speaker will be dragged into every controversial question which comes before the House of Commons. That may be a necessity, but I think it may drastically affect the role and the sense of the Speaker being independent.
I have the greatest respect for you, Mr. Speaker, but I am worried that in the future, when a majority government is able to install a Speaker of its choice after the campaigning which takes place for the role of Speaker, we may find that the Speaker no longer represents all Parties in the House and could become the effective tool and weapon of the Government. I believe that is a legitimate concern which all of us in this House should have.
As I said earlier, we do accept and respect your decision. However, I suggest that the House Leaders and the Committee on Elections, Privileges and Procedures study this ruling and ensure that there are clear guidelines for how we in the House use, and sometimes abuse, the rules, as well as clear guidelines to set out when the Speaker can use this new discretion.
I also think that in the face of this ruling we must have some way of ensuring that the legitimate concerns of the Government to move forward on its political agenda be balanced by the ability of the opposition Parties, especially when they have a small majority, as they do at this time, to ensure that instead of only having a number of meetings of committees we have real action, real presentation and real questioning at those meetings.
In your ruling, Mr. Speaker, you pointed out that there were a number of meetings of the committee which studied Bill C-22. However, we in the Opposition are concerned that those committees stacked witness after witness in the same hearing. Witnesses were allowed 45 minutes to make their presentation within which time any questions of Members of Parliament had to be asked and answered. That is impossible. Forty-five minutes is not enough time for a national group to present its
April 14, 1987

evidence on a major piece of legislation and for us to ask intelligent questions and receive intelligent answers.
With regard to the ruling just made, it is important that if the Speaker is going to judge the quantity of debate as well as the quality of debate the rights of minorities, citizens and groups which have come before parliamentary committees be protected. Statistics alone do not show the full picture. It is unfortunate, but it will be necessary for the Speaker to delve into the quality of what is happening in committee sessions. He will have to consider what actually takes place when each and every witness comes before a parliamentary committee on a controversial matter. Mr. Speaker, I wish you well.


Mr. Speaker, on the same point of order. First of all, we on this side of the House wish to thank you for taking the time to give this matter thorough consideration and for giving us your ruling, which we accept as is, according to the Standing Orders. However, I would like to give you and all Members of this House our interpretation of the ruling you have just handed down.
We believe that although the Chair, in its lengthy summation, referred to the long hours spent debating Bill C-22, according to our interpretation, the Chair did not make its ruling on that basis, because when a procedural issue is raised in the House, the point is not how much time has been spent on debate but how to make a ruling that is balanced, that is satisfactory to all Members of this House and that protects them as well.
When certain debates become long and drawn out, it is a matter of discussion among members whether the debate is or is not too long, and the public may have its views on the subject as well, but I am sure that the Chair does not judge whether or not a debate has lasted too long.
The same applies to the time allocation measure the Government intends to use with respect to Bill C-22. Here again, I am sure the Chair does not judge whether, in this specific case, the use of time allocation is justified or whether or not the use of this measure has been untoward, since here again, it is a matter for the public to judge.
It may be a matter for debate between the Members of this House, but in any case, the rules for time allocation are clearly set forth in our Standing Orders and may be applied at any time. If they are used too often, it is up to the public to judge the Government's actions.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, it seems to me and to the Members on our side of the House at least, that today's decision, on the basis of age-old precedents used by Speakers in the United Kingdom, has expanded the powers the Chair already had. All we expect the Chair to do is ensure that these powers will be used to give equal protection to all Members of this House. As members of an Opposition that is very much in the minority, we expect and hope that these powers will be used to protect the rights of the minority in a Parliament where the majority is very much so.
Procedure-Speaker's Ruling
[DOT] (U40)


Mr. Speaker, I wanted to make a few comments because I participated yesterday at your invitation to say a few words on the particular question.
1 gather from your ruling, Mr. Speaker, that you have ruled that the situation could take place, that the motion moved by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Deputy Prime Minister and President of the Privy Council (Mr. Lewis) could stand, but that you did not want it to be a precedent. In fact, Mr. Speaker, you have made a judgment here about this particular issue. I think you have to be aware, for example, that when Bill C-22 went to the legislative committee, at the very first meeting a motion was put forward by government Members on the committee that the committee would sit five days a week, that it would meet three times a day, and that it would limit each witness to 45 minutes. They set a deadline by which time the consideration of Bill C-22 would be complete within the committee. I think you are aware of those things, Mr. Speaker. You have to be aware in making the decision.
This is why I think it is a dangerous situation where the Speaker involves himself in judging a particular Bill. While you said your ruling is not concerned with the merits of a Bill, in fact you have to be concerned with the merits of the Bill. You have to be concerned with what goes into why the Opposition is opposed to the Bill and the extent of that opposition within the House. It seems to me on the one hand that you do not want to get involved, but that on the other hand you have become involved.
I would humbly submit that in fact you have, by your ruling, picked a side. You have said that the Parliamentary Secretary's motion could stand. It is a move which has a lot of grave dangers down the road. It is unfortunate that we have moved this way, Mr. Speaker.
It seems to me that there was a previous ruling by Mr. Speaker Lamoureux that in fact that sort of motion could not stand. I think in this particular situation we have opened up a new can of worms, and it is most unfortunate that the ruling would lead to that.


Mr. Speaker, as the official critic for Consumer and Corporate Affairs who dealt with Bill C-22, and also as one who accepted your invitation yesterday to speak to the issue at hand, I want to say very briefly that from your decision it is my understanding-and with great respect, if I am incorrect, you will correct me-that this decision in no way is a precedent for future deliberations of the House.
You have certain powers as the Speaker of the House and at the present time you are exercising those powers. Far be it from me to question whether the exercising of that power is wrong or right. You have made your decision, and we must live with that particular decision.

April 14, 1987
Privilege-Mr. Jelinek
However, if I may, I was not aware of some of the events commented on by the Hon. Member for Nickel Belt (Mr. Rodriguez) that took place at committee. My recollection is somewhat different, and I think the record should show that. There is no question but that the Government of the day wished to limit the time of witnesses to 45 minutes and wished to have these meetings over at a particular point in time. However, I suggest respectfully that the impasse on Bill C-22 may have been averted if members opposite, in particular the Minister responsible for Bill C-22, had the courage of their convictions and convened some deliberations with members opposite. However, that was not in the cards, not at all. It forced members of the Opposition, members of my Party-and I am not speaking for the New Democratic Party-to do things we would not necessarily want to do to impede good debate in committee and in the House of Commons.
You made a number of comments, Mr. Speaker. However, I say that there was one omission, and I just bring it to your attention. You talked about the committee, you talked about divisions, as did the Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Mazankow-ski), but you did not talk about the 47 amendments on the floor of the House of Commons which are germane to the substance of the Bill itself. That has to be given some consideration. Perhaps you have given that consideration, but perhaps you did not articulate it in the way in which I wanted it to be articulated.
I raise that point in terms of future deliberations with regard to Bill C-22 and where it will go in coming weeks and months. I say to you, Mr. Speaker, with great sincerity that the substance of the Bill is wrong-wrong. We in the Opposition are deathly against Bill C-22 as it now stands. Because of the insensitivities and the activities of the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs (Mr. Andre), you have been faced with a very difficult decision which we on this side of the House will respect and honour.


I would ask Hon. Members to abide by my request to close off comments on the ruling. I would invite Hon. Members on both sides of the House to read it carefully, and my door is always open.
However, I must say that I listened with very great care to Hon. Members in these comments after the ruling. I know those comments were made because they feel, and appropriately so, that they have a duty to comment in this Chamber on the ruling. I have not taken that as a challenge to the ruling, and 1 do not think in any way anybody should even indicate that that was in the minds of any of the Hon. Members who are well and favourably known to me. I do not think that was it at all.
I have said that 1 did not enjoy making this ruling. If you examine it carefully, you will see that it is a very carefully circumscribed ruling.
Now let me meet the observation of the Hon. Member for Churchill (Mr. Murphy) who said that this is putting an undue
amount of discretion on the Chair and that that is something new around here.
SO)
First, remember that all our precedents are as a consequence of some Speaker somewhere making a ruling. I do not seek more discretion. What I seek, and what I hope Hon. Members will do, is to clarify these rules in such a way that no Speaker, whether it is myself or somebody else, is put into the position which I feel I have been put into in this circumstance where I have to make a decision which can give grave concern. I may think that I will not abuse the discretionary position that I have taken at a future time, but what Hon. Members have to concern themselves with is that I might not, but somebody else might.
I want to say to the Hon. Member for Cape Breton-East Richmond (Mr. Dingwall), the Hon. Member for Churchill (Mr. Murphy) and others that I am deeply aware of all of that danger. There it is. This, as all Hon. Members know, is not always an easy place to be sitting. I want to say again how much I appreciate the spirit of goodwill and devotion to this place that Hon. Members have exhibited in receiving a ruling which I recognize is not one which some members would have wished me to make at this time.
The Hon. Minister for Fitness and Amateur Sport (Mr. Jelinek) is rising on a question of privilege?


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Hon. Otto Jelinek (Minister of State (Fitness and Amateur
Sport)): Mr. Speaker, as you know, I have given you appropriate notice, and it is with sadness and some anger that I must rise today on a question of privilege arising out of the totally irresponsible conduct of a fellow Member of this House during Question Period yesterday. The Member for Ottawa Centre (Mr. Cassidy) used distorted information, half-truths and unsubstantiated innuendo to smear my reputation as a Member of Parliament.
If this were an isolated incident by the Opposition using unchecked and wrong information, it would be hard to justify taking the time of the House to respond. As I will detail in a few moments, all-I repeat, all the facts relevant to this case have been on the public record at the office of the Assistant Deputy Registrar General if the Member had bothered to ask. He did not.
Sadly, Mr. Speaker, this is not an isolated incident. This House of Commons over which you preside has become too often little more than a forum of mud-slinging and smear tactics by Hon. Members. However, there is no honour in
April 14, 1987
character assassination. There is no honour in unresearched personal attacks on members and their families. There is no honour in unsubstantiated smear tactics.
Let me summarize this matter briefly. In 1980, I purchased a 50 per cent share of a six-unit apartment house at 504 Albert Street in Ottawa. On May 20, 1982, I signed over the ownership of the building to Mr. Ken Gibson, an Ottawa lawyer and owner of the remaining 50 per cent share, retaining my portion in trust. That was in 1982.
Upon becoming a cabinet Minister in the fall of 1984, I disclosed in writing my interest to the Assistant Deputy Registrar General. This is and has been a matter of public record. By January of this year I agreed, and immediately notified the Assistant Deputy Registrar General, of my intention to sell.
As part of the transaction, Mr. Gibson asked for a six month delay of payment from closing to August 14, 1987, which I also accepted. Upon the advice of my attorneys, I secured the balance of the purchase price due on August 14, 1987, by taking a second and third mortgage on the two properties in question, on a non-interest bearing basis. At no time did I make an interest-bearing loan or any other type of loan to Mr. Gibson or to anyone else.
On the date of closing, I was away on government business. In fact, I had the pleasure of representing the Government of Canada in Cape Breton for the Canada Winter Games and, therefore, gave my wife a power of attorney, as I have often done in the past. I regret also that Hon. Members had to drag my wife into this matter.
I want to emphasize, Mr. Speaker, that as always I kept the Assistant Deputy Registrar General informed of my activities prior, during and after the transaction. In fact, part of the purchase agreement which I intend to table-it is a purchase agreement which, if the Hon. Member had asked, would have been made available to him-reads, in part, that "on closing Jelinek shall deliver to Gibson, among other things":
A letter from the office of the appropriate official of the Government of
Canada confirming that Jelinek has made full disclosure of his interest in this
transaction and that the within transaction is in no way viewed as a conflict of
interest or an inappropriate involvement.
That letter was dated and received by me on February 12, 1987, from Mr. Robert Boyle, the Assistant Deputy Registrar General, five full days prior to closing.
With consent, Mr. Speaker, I would like at this time to table both of these documents to which I have just referred.
I think I can indicate to the Hon. Minister that the documents can be sent to the Table.


Mr. Speaker, this information and all other pertinent information has always been publicly available and any responsible individual, Member of Parliament or otherwise, should have availed himself of this information prior to making unnecessary and unfounded accusations that damaged
Privilege-Mr. Jelinek
not only my reputation but, more important to me, that damaged the reputation of my family.
What happened yesterday during Question Period by the Opposition therefore is once again a totally irresponsible example and a clear abuse of parliamentary procedures which must be corrected. This has gone on far too long.
These are the facts, Mr. Speaker, facts which the Members could have obtained for themselves, facts which, had they bothered to check, surely would have kept them from smearing myself, my family and putting in bad light all members, yes, all Members of this House of Commons.
Everyone in public life expects to be criticized from time to time based on our policies, opinions or statements. I am no exception. I have been here long enough and I accept criticism, especially constructive criticism. But what this House of Commons must no longer permit is the use of this Chamber for unfair and vicious personal attacks with no foundation or justification. Parliamentary immunity, a time honoured and necessary requirement for the parliamentary system, is being cynically abused.
Notwithstanding, I am, and will be, watching carefully all statements made by Members outside the House with a view to taking whatever legal action is necessary. Believe me, I will be watching so carefully that if there is any justification for taking legal action I will be doing just that, because I have had it up to here with you guys on the other side.


Hear, hear!


Neither I, nor any Member of this House, should be subjected to this outrage any longer, Mr. Speaker. I am proud of my name and proud of my family. I deeply resent being wrongly slandered and having my parliamentary privileges so blatantly abused. I am angered by how deeply the reputation of all members, and this House itself, is being tarnished by the irresponsible conduct of a few. Every time a smear is made-this is a big problem-no matter how groundless, unfortunately, some of the mud sticks. The stigma remains, and that has happened in this case.

It is for that reason, and because my personal privileges as a Member of Parliament have indeed been abused, I believe I have a prima facie case of privilege. If you, Sir, find that I do indeed have a prima facie case of privilege, I would move, seconded by the President of the Privy Council (Mr. Mazan-kowski):
That of the allegations made by the Member for Ottawa Centre as found at
page 5094 Hansard dated April 13, 1987 be referred to the Standing
Committee on Elections, Privileges and Procedures with the usual power to
call for papers, persons and records and to report by May 31, 1987.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I would like to comment on the statement made by the Minister of State for Fitness and Amateur Sport (Mr. Jelinek), and also

April 14, 1987
Privilege-Mr. Jelinek
on the questions raised in the House yesterday. I must say that I regret some of the comments he made here because, when I raised the question, I thought the question was legitimate in relation to the conflict of interest and Code of Conduct guidelines issued by the Government for cabinet Ministers and other senior officials in September, 1985, by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney).
1 will not read all the questions, but in view of the comments made by the Minister who is suggesting that he has been slandered, and he has used a number of other fairly substantial words, accusing me also of irresponsible conduct, 1 will read the question I put yesterday to the Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Mazankowski). My first question was the following:
In view of the risky nature of this investment can the Deputy Prime Minister tell the House whether speculative commercial mortgage lending is a permitted activity under the Government's Code of Conduct for Ministers of the Crown?
My second question recalled that section of the code, Section 29, that said Ministers shall not, outside their official duties, actively manage or operate a business or commercial activity. I pointed out that it appeared that the properties in question were grossly over-mortgaged, except in light of a speculative effort by the new owner, Mr. Gibson or Mr. Gibson and his partners, to redevelop them.
Then I asked the following question:
When a cabinet Minister makes a $354,000 second or third mortgage loan, is that not a commercial activity which is in fact prohibited by the code? What action does the Government intend to take to enforce the code with respect to the Minister of State for Fitness and Amateur Sport?
The Minister has indicated that he did consult with the Assistant Deputy Registrar General. In fact, I have not seen a copy of the purchase agreement. I want to tell the House that I did inform the Minister's office that I would be raising this matter yesterday and, albeit with short notice, I also gave the necessary documents to the Deputy Prime Minister prior to asking the question.
I would point out that the documents which I communicated to the Deputy Prime Minister included the filings the Minister had made with the Assistant Deputy Registrar General in 1984 and 1985, and more recently in February of 1987. As the Minister states, he did disclose, as he is permitted to do, the holding of the 50 per cent interest in the property on Albert Street in his submissions in 1984 to 1986. In 1987, that disclosure was not there because he had by that time sold the property in question.
I accept the statement of the Minister that he consulted with the Assistant Deputy Registrar General and was assured that in the opinion of the Assistant Deputy Registrar General there was compliance with the Code of Conduct. However, the Assistant Deputy Registrar General has been known to give advice at other times with which people in my Party have disagreed. In fact, some of the rulings of the ADRG have been subjected to lengthy judicial review, with what result we do not yet know. But nonetheless it is not necessarily the case that
just because the official in question made a ruling, therefore members of every Party will agree with that particular ruling.


Are we going to listen to you?


Mr. Speaker, I would say to the Deputy Prime Minister that I am trying to treat this issue with the seriousness which I think it deserves.
Perhaps I can share with you, Mr. Speaker, the reasons for my concerns which initially were brought to me by constituents who were concerned about speculation for redevelopment purposes in properties in downtown Ottawa which the local advisory committee on architectural conservation had sought to designate as heritage properties. Downtown Ottawa is within my constituency. In fact, the matter happens to be before a City Council committee today.
Is the loan which was granted by the Minister of State for Fitness and Amateur Sport a speculative loan? There is an agreement that he will receive $354,000 in August. In the first place, it is a loan whether or not interest is charged. I think that is quite clear. It is a promise to pay at some future date. In the second place-


I have been listening carefully to the Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre (Mr. Cassidy) but I am getting a little concerned that what started off to be a series of questions, which the Hon. Member of course has a right to put, is getting dangerously close to being an assertion. I do not know if the Hon. Member intends that. I would ask the Hon. Member to consider it.


Mr. Speaker, I cite this because the Hon. Minister has accused me of irresponsible conduct, of distortion, of using unsubstantiated information and of slander. From what I can see in the Hansard record, this is because I referred to the transaction in which he was involved as a speculative transaction and as a commercial activity. This is why I am speaking on this particular matter. I will, however, try to be brief.
The facts as registered in the Registry Office-


I will hear from the Hon. Member. I am not closing him off at all. However, I would ask that the Hon. Member, and any other Hon. Member who speaks, address the direct question of whether or not the questions that were asked yesterday amount to, directly or indirectly, whatever way it may be, a breach of the privilege of the Hon. Minister.
What other things may be going on with regard to property in the neighbourhood are interesting, of course, and may have a lot to do with why the Hon. Member asked the question, but I would ask the Hon. Member to concentrate solely on that particular point. The Hon. Minister has said that those questions had the effect of carrying what we lawyers call an innuendo, an innuendo of wrongful conduct, and that is basically what the Hon. Minister is pleading before the Chair. Therefore, I would ask the Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre to address that point. I know I can count on his co-operation.
April 14, 1987


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I will address that point directly then.
In the first place, since the question has been asked, at no time did I make a suggestion in any way that the activities in which the Minister was involved would have been illegal had they been conducted as a private business transaction. I may deplore land speculation and speculation for redevelopment but, nonetheless, that is not an illegal activity in our society. That is not the question.
The question is whether a Minister of the Crown who is governed by the conflict of interest Code of Conduct for Ministers should in fact be making a loan which appears to be in the nature of a speculative investment, or whether in fact he should not have carried that out through a blind trust if, for reasons of his own, he felt that it was time to dispose of his interest in property. Again, that was an interest in property he had acquired in a legitimate way when he was a private Member of the House and which he had disclosed appropriately to the Assistant Deputy Registrar General. That, I believe, is the question on which I can focus.


The Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre may not want to respond, but I think it is in the interest of the Chair, in view of the fact that this is a Question of Privilege, that the Chair be absolutely clear what position the Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre is taking.
Is the Hon. Member taking the position that yesterday in this Chamber he was entitled to ask questions, or, is he asserting that, while whatever transaction we have been hearing about may well be legal, nonetheless, it amounts to a breach of the conflict of interest guidelines?
As I understand the position of the Hon. Minister, he is saying that the effect of the questions was to accuse him of having breached the guidelines, not that the matter is illegal in the ordinary sense of commerce. I can share with the Hon. Member the fact that there have been times when even I have had some strong views about certain kinds of developments in some places. However, I think the point the Hon. Minister is making, a result of which his privileges have been breached, is that the effect of the innuendo carried by the questions was to slander him. The innuendo was an accusation or an assertion that the Hon. Minister was in breach of the guidelines. That seems to me to be the point we have before us.


Mr. Speaker, I regret your use of the word "innuendo" because I am not aware of any innuendo which took place.


Oh!


I am not saying there was any innuendo. I am saying that the Hon. Minister has said that those questions carried an innuendo. Under the law of defamation, as Hon. Members will know, you do not have to say everything about
Privilege-Mr. Jelinek
someone, but if you say something which, in the minds of reasonable people, carries an accusation, even it is not spelled out, that is innuendo. As I understand the Hon. Minister, that is what he is saying; the effect of the questions yesterday was to carry an innuendo which reasonable people would take as being that the Minister was in breach of the guidelines. That seems to be the point the Hon. Minister has raised. While these other points are of interest, and no doubt led the Hon. Member to feel that he had an obligation to his constituents or others to raise the issue, that is the narrow point I have to decide.


Mr. Speaker, on examination of the facts in question I drew the conclusion that there was a substantial case that the Minister was in breach of the guidelines, the Code of Conduct for Ministers-


Without checking the facts.


-and public officials. I believe it is a legitimate activity in the House of Commons to raise questions about complaints-


Check the facts first.


-which are not a legal matter, but which are under the discretion of the Prime Minister and delegated through him to the Deputy Prime Minister.
When you review the record, my first question was to ask the Deputy Prime Minister whether the activity in question was permitted activity under the Code of Conduct for Ministers of the Crown. On the question of privilege, I maintain that it is certainly legitimate for Members of this House to ask questions about the application. In addition, the fact that an official may have given a ruling to a cabinet Minister on this subject or any other subject does not therefore bind all Members of this House to agree with the ruling.


Oh, oh!


Particularly since the official in question has made judgments in the past which have been open to question and, in fact, to judicial review.
The question here then is, I suppose, that the Minister might claim he disagrees with my judgment of what took place when I spoke of it as commercial and speculative mortgage activity. I am prepared to explain my u