Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the Government's response to Petitions Nos. 332-1980, 332-2283, 332-2424, 332-2441 to 332-2444 inclusive, 332-2496, and 332-2573.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 101,1 have the honour to present to the House, in both official languages, the sixth report of the Canada-Europe Parliamentary Association.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 101, I have the honour to present to the House, in both official languages, the report of the delegation of the Canadian Branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association, which participated in the annual Commonwealth parliamentary visit to Britain from May 6, 1987 to May 22, 1987.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


Mr. Speaker, 1 have the honour of tabling the twenty-second and twenty-third reports of the Striking Committee.

If the House gives its consent, I intend to move concurrence in the report later this day.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


['Agreed.', '\nNational Transportation Act, 1986']
Mr. Speaker, if the House gives its consent, I move, seconded by Mr. Lewis, that the twenty-third report of the Striking Committee tabled earlier today be concurred in.


Shall the Hon. Member have leave to move this motion?


Agreed.


The House has heard the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I have the honour of tabling a petition signed by residents of Moncton, New Brunswick, who are asking for changes in our road safety regulations.
The petitioners believe that rear seat-belts in passenger cars are inadequate and that the suffering of crash victims could be reduced or avoided through improved seat-belts.
They also believe that the cost of medical care can be reduced or eliminated.


Petitions
For these reasons, your petitioners call upon Parliament to institute mandatory installation of three-point adjustable lap/shoulder seat-belts for rear-seat passengers. As well, petitioners request the mandaroty installation of front seat airbags.
[DOT] (mo)


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present on behalf of the citizens of the Province of Ontario and indeed Canadians from all across Canada 2,318 signatures calling upon Parliament to pass a motion favouring the return of capital punishment in Canada. These signatures which now total 8,320 represent the strong will of the Canadian people on this very important issue.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present on behalf of the citizens of Erie riding in the Province of Ontario 1,980 signatures calling upon Parliament to pass a motion favouring the return of capital punishment. These signatures represent the strong will of the Canadian people on what we believe to be a very important issue.


Mr. Speaker, 1 rise to present on behalf of 1,971 citizens of Canada, from eastern Canada right through to the West Coast, who feel that Canadians have consistently supported the reinstatement of capital punishment in principle and in practice and they are calling upon all Members of Parliament to vote in favour of the motion that calls for the return of capital punishment.


Mr. Speaker, it is my duty to present on behalf of the citizens of Alberta and Canadians from all across the country over 2,000 signatures calling on Parliament to pass a motion favouring the return of capital punishment in Canada. These signatures represent the strong will of the Canadian people on this very important issue.


Mr. Speaker, through the co-operation of the Ontario Police Association, the Canadian National Police Association and the Coalition for the Return of Capital Punishment in Canada, I am pleased to present 1,913 signatures from people in the Peterborough federal riding and from right across this nation. This brings the total number of signatures as of today to 10,233 and it is the intent to honour these petitions as long as they keep arriving at the House of Commons.


Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to present on behalf of over 400 residents of my constituency a petition as follows. Whereas troubles in many parts of the world are causing people to seek safety from persecution by coming to Canada; whereas
Canada has established standards of refugee status determination but our existing procedures have broken down under unexpected strains; whereas the Standing Committee of Parliament has proposed a new procedure for refugee determination which is quicker and fairer than the one now in force; whereas this proposal has support among all Parties in Parliament as well as the Canadian Council of Churches, the Canadian Bar Association, the Canadian Jewish Congress and other groups and individuals; whereas procedures recently adopted are turning away refugee-status claimants from ports of entry and putting real refugees at risk, therefore we the undersigned your petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to ensure that Government and Parliament enact legislation that will embody the principles of fair and quick oral hearings of refugee claimants before a refugee board independent of the Immigration Commission, universal access to such hearings for every claimant in Canada and adequate opportunity to arrive in Canada to make this claim.


Mr. Speaker, I would also like to present on behalf of a number of residents of the southern part of Winnipeg, and this should be of some interest to the Hon. Member for Winnipeg-Assini-boine (Mr. McKenzie) since it includes many of his constituents, this petition. Whereas we the undersigned feel that as taxpaying Canadians and supporters of the postal system, through stamps and other services, it is our right to receive mail delivery to our own door, and whereas we as yet do not have postal delivery to our door, and we do not have any intention of accepting supermailboxes as an alternative to door-to-door delivery, and whereas approximately 80 to 90 per cent of our development has door-to-door delivery, we feel that that courtesy and right should be extended to the rest of us, therefore, we the undersigned your petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to instigate door-to-door postal service to the remaining few homes in the area of Vista South in Winnipeg, Manitoba.


Mr. Speaker, I have a third petition on a different topic. This petition contains the signatures of several hundred employees of the airlines resident in the Winnipeg, Montreal and Toronto areas. The petitioners say that the experience of airline deregulation in the United States has resulted in a diminution of safety standards and practices and an over-all reduction in services to many communities and cheaper fares but these effects are already apparent in Canada in the form of airline mergers and the deterioration of labour relations within the industry. The social fabric of Canada is based on an accessible transport system which is jeopardized by deregulation. Wherefore, the undersigned your petitioners, humbly pray and call upon Parliament to defeat this legislation and as in duty bound your petitioners will ever pray.


Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to present a petition on behalf of residents of Kamloops, British Columbia, and residents of Nakusp, Beaton, Revelstoke and Trout Lake and the communities of Hinton, Jasper and Grande Cache in Alberta.
These petitioners are calling upon Parliament to initiate a full public inquiry into the safety, testing, registration and regulation of the use of pesticides and the examination of alternative ways of controlling pests such as biological control and plant-derived pesticides because the petitioners are of the opinion that increasing numbers of chemicals used as herbicides and insecticides are being proven to have harmful effects on human health.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition signed by a large number of residents of my constituency of Burnaby who note the very high level of unemployment in western Canada and particularly in the Province of British Columbia and urge the Government to reject any proposed legislation designed to eliminate federal contributions to the unemployment program, to weaken that program in any way or to reduce UI benefits for unemployed Canadians.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to advise that Question No. 136 will be answered today.


Since September 4, 1984, by month, were any domestic applicants denied refugee status in Canada and, if so, of these, how many (a) remained in Canada (b) left Canada, and on what basis?


the term "domestic applicants" means household domestics or people who receive permission to enter and remain in Canada as maids, nannies, handymen or butlers, there is no cross referencing between that category of person and those who claim refugee status.
Order Paper Questions
If, on the other hand it means how many people were denied refugee status after making a claim to refugee status in Canada, the following data is relevant:
1984		1985			
Sept.	102	Jan.	245	July	333Oct.	194	Feb.	227	Aug.	349Nov.	188	Mar.	243	Sept.	196Dec.	213	Apr.	167	Oct.	195May	187	Nov.	203June	247	Dec.	2951986	1987	Jan.	303	Jan.	490Feb.	290	Feb.	563Mar.	188	Mar.	627Apr.	332	Apr.	458May	150	May	N/A
July	104		
Aug.	195		
Sept.	180		
Oct.	257		
Nov.	297		
Dec.	535		
(a) and (b) It is not possible to report on how many of these people left or remained in Canada, because the majority were eligible for consideration under the administrative review of the backlog which was commenced on July 15, 1986; almost 85 per cent of the 25,000 persons in the process will be granted permanent residence.
Those who have been refused under the administrative review remain at various stages of the current claim process. Those who cannot substantiate a claim to refugee status will be moved as expeditiously as possible into the immigration enforcement stream.
* Determinations made by the Refugee Status Advisory Committee


The questions as enumerated by the Parliamentary Secretary have been answered.


Mr. Speaker, I would ask that all the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Shall the remaining questions be allowed to stand?


Agreed.


National Transportation Act, 1986


The House resumed from Wednesday, June 17, consideration of the motion of Mr. Crosbie that Bill C-18, An Act respecting national transportation, be read the third time and passed.
Pursuant to order made Tuesday, June 16, 1987, the House will now proceed with the deferred recorded division on third reading of Bill C-18, and Act respecting national transportation.
Call in the Members.
The House divided on the motion (Mr. Crosbie), which was agreed to on the following division:
(Division No. 217)
++YEAS
Members
Tardif
(Charlesbourg) Taylor Thacker Towers Tremblay (Quebec- Est) Tremblay (Lotbiniere)
Allmand
Althouse
Angus
Axworthy
Baker
Benjamin
Berger
Blackburn
(Brant) Broadbent Copps dc Corneille Epp
(Thunder Bay-
Nipigon)
Foster
Frith
Fulton
[DOT] (N40)
Valcourt
Van De Walle
Vankoughnet
Vezina
Vincent
Warner
Weiner
White
++NAYS
Members
Garneau Gauthier Guilbault (Saint-Jacques) Heap Hopkins Hovdebo Johnston (Saint-Henri- Westmount) Kaplan Keeper Killens MacLellan Manly Marchi McCurdy Murphy
Wilson
(Swift Current -Maple Creek) Wilson
(Etobicoke Centre) Winegard Wise-137
Nicholson
(Trinity)
Nunziata
Nystrom
Orlikow
Ouellet
Penner
Prud'homme
Riis
Robichaud Robinson Tobin Young-42
Andre	Ferland	ManthaAttewell	Fontaine	MasseBeatty	Forrestall	MayerBelsher	Fraleigh	MazankowskiBernier	Fretz	McCainBlais	Friesen	McCrossanBlenkarn	Gagnon	McCuishBouchard	Gass	McDougallBourgault	Gottselig	(St. Paul's)Boyer	Gray	MclnnesBradley	(Bonaventure-lles-de-	McKenzieBrightwell	la-Madeleine)	McKinnonBrowes	Greenaway	McKnightCadieux	Grise	McMillanCardiff	Guilbault	MerrithewChampagne	(Drummond)	Minaker(Champlain)	Gustafson	MitgesCharest	Hamilton	NickersonClark	Harvey	Nowlan(Brandon-Souris)	Hawkes	OberleClifford	Hees	OostromClinch	Hnatyshyn	PaproskiCollins	Holtmann	PennockComeau	Horner	PetersonCorbett	Howie	PietzCossitt	James	PlourdeCote	Jelinek	Porter(Lac-Saint-Jean)	Jepson	RavisCote	Joncas	Redway(Langelier)	Jourdenais	ReidCrofton	Kempling	ReimerCrombie	Kindy	St-JulienCrosbie	King	Schellenberger(St. John's West)	Lanthier	(Wetaskiwin)Crosby	Lawrence	Scott(Halifax West)	Layton	(Victoria-Haliburton)Dantzer	Lesick	ScowenDarling	Lewis	Shieldsde Cotret	MacDonald	SiddonDella Noce	(Kingston and	SparrowDick	the Islands)	SpeyerDomm	MacDougall	StackhouseDorin	(Timiskaming)	StewartEllis	MacKay	SulukFennell	Mailly


I declare the motion carried. Bill read the third time and passed.


ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON REINSTATEMENT The House resumed from Friday, June 5, consideration of the motion of Mr. Mazankowski:
That this House supports, in principle, the reinstatement of capital punishment and directs that a special committee on reinstatement, composed of 15 members, be established, hold hearings and make its final report to the House no later than three (3) months following the adoption of this motion, such report to provide recommendations on:
(a)	which offence or offences should carry the death penalty, and in what
circumstances;
(b)	which method or methods should be used to carry out the penalty of
death, and in what circumstances;
That, pursuant to Standing Order 107(1), this special committee be hereby appointed as a committee to prepare and bring in a bill no later than three months following the adoption of this motion, founded on the committee's recommendations on (a) and (b) above; such a bill shall be the object of a separate and distinct report of the special committee, and such a report shall be its final report;
That such bill, when reported from such special committee to the House, be deemed pursuant to Standing Order 107(1) to have been introduced and stand on the Order Paper, in the name of the special committee chairman, for first reading at the next sitting of the House; and that subsequent House stages of the bill be considered under "Government Orders", with the bill standing under the heading "Government Business"; and that, when the said bill has been read a second time, it shall stand referred to a Legislative Committee;

That the Striking Committee be empowered to name the Members of the special committee, provided that once the Striking Committee report is laid upon the Table, it shall be deemed concurred in;
That the special committee have the power to sit while the House is sitting and during periods when the House stands adjourned;
That the special committee be empowered to report from time to time and send for persons and papers, and to print such papers and evidence from time to time as may be ordered by the committee and to retain the services of expert, technical, professional and clerical staff;
That the special committee be empowered to adjourn from place to place inside Canada and that, when deemed necessary, the appropriate staff accompany the committee;
That a quorum of the special committee be eight (8) members for any vote, resolution or other decision; and that the chairman be authorized to hold meetings to receive evidence and authorize the printing thereof whenever six (6) members are present;
That any substitution of membership on the special committee be made pursuant to Standing Order 94(4); and That, notwithstanding the usual practices of this House, if the House is not sitting when the special committee is ready to issue its final report and the said bill, the special committee shall present its report and the bill to the House by filing them with the Clerk of the House provided that the report shall then be deemed to have been laid upon the Table, and the bill shall then be deemed, pursuant to Standing Order 107(1), to have been introduced at the first sitting of the House thereafter and to stand on the Order Paper in the name of the special committee chairman, for first reading at the next sitting of the House; and that subsequent House stages of the bill be considered under "Government Orders", with the bill standing under the heading "Government Business".
Resuming debate. The Hon. Member for Yorkton-Melville (Mr. Nystrom).


Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to participate today-


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. 1 move:
That the Member for Ontario (Mr. Fennell) be now heard.


I was speaking.


On Orders of the Day, resuming debate was called and the Chair recognized the Hon. Member for Yorkton-Melville (Mr. Nystrom) who, in the opinion of the Chair, was clearly speaking.


No.


The Hon. Member has risen and moved a traditional motion that another Member be now heard.
It is important that all Hon. Members and the public that is watching understand exactly what this procedure is, because it is a very difficult one for the Chair.
I am going to refer to what the procedural law is in this matter so that there is no misunderstanding. I am referring to a ruling of Speaker Sauve on October 27, 1983. It is as follows:
-Members may on a point of order ask that an Hon. Member be now heard as long as no other Member has the floor legitimately. Beauchesne states that a motion that a Member be now heard must be moved before the Member recognized has begun speaking. If the Member recognized has simply said "Madam Speaker," that is enough to be in possession of the House and, therefore, under those circumstances a motion that another Member be now heard is not in order.
Capital Punishment
There is always a difficulty for the Chair in these cases, because there is what amounts to a physical contest for the floor. However, in this case, clearly the Hon. Member for Yorkton-Melville (Mr. Nystrom) had begun to speak, and 1 must advise the Hon. Member that he is out of order. The Hon. Member for Yorkton-Melville has the floor.


Mr. Speaker, what we are dealing with today is a very important decision about the future of our country. Our decision will tell us how civilized our country is and what kind of country it will be for our kids.
Many Canadians have said there should be capital punishment. They say that because there is a lot of crime. They see violence on television and hear about it all the time. For these reasons I want to ask the Canadian people and my fellow Members of Parliament about 12 questions today with respect to whether or not we should reinstate capital punishment.
The most important question, of course, is if capital punishment is a deterrent, is it going to protect our society? Even those who believe in capital punishment have never been able to prove that it is a deterrent. They have not been able to prove it is a deterrent in this country, or in any other country. Therefore, if it is not a deterrent, why do people want to bring back capital punishment? If capital punishment is not a deterrent, then why bring it back?
I suggest the only reason for bringing back capital punishment is pure and simple revenge. It is vengeance. It is a belief that we must have an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. It is a belief that if someone robs you, you have the right to rob them. It is a belief that if someone were to punch you in the eye, you have the right to punch them in the eye. It is pure revenge. It is a vengeful vendetta. I suggest that basing the argument for capital punishment on revenge and retribution is not right.
My third question asks, if we bring back capital punishment, what kind of society will we have in this great country of ours called Canada? What kind of society will we be if we give the state the legal right to take a life, the right to kill someone? I say to you, Mr. Speaker, that would not be a very nice society.
Bringing back capital punishment may indeed provoke even more murders, even more violence and killing. In his speech the Hon. Member for Ottawa West (Mr. Daubney) outlined in detail some statistics on what we call the brutalization effect, that is, when a state legally kills someone it can provoke someone who is sick and demented to go out and kill someone or commit an act of violence.
The Hon. Member in his speech before the House cited some studies made in New York State and in South Carolina where indeed when the state did murder someone, there was concrete evidence that it provoked more killings and violence in those particular states. That evidence proves that there is a strong chance that if we bring back killing by the state, capital punishment, all we will do is create more violence and murder.


Capital Punishment
We have seen evidence time and time again that violent acts on television may provoke some violence of one kind or another. I remember when I was a young boy that a cousin of mine was always watching westerns on television. He saw how they kept hanging the bad man, and that in the next show the bad man came back. This little cousin of mine, who was about four-years old, went out to the barn, took his favourite cat and he hung the cat. This is the kind of message he was receiving from the television set.
I suggest that Canadians should be influenced by the fact that by executing people, we in turn may be provoking more violence and killings by sick and demented people.
My fourth question asks, are we going to get as many convictions for first-degree murder if we have capital punishment? Are juries going to convict people as readily of first-degree murder if we have capital punishment? I suggest that is highly unlikely. We will have more convictions for second-degree murder and murderers will be running around our streets a lot sooner if we have capital punishment rather than a 25 minimum first-degree sentence.
I refer again to studies which show that out of some 30 juries, at least 29 would have been affected by the fact that capital punishment was the law of this land. There are many Canadians in Canada who would never convict someone of first-degree murder if they knew that the conviction would result in someone being executed. As a result there would be more convictions for second-degree murders and murderers would be out on the street in a position to do more harm and violence to our society. I ask Members of Parliament to think a lot about that.
In my Province of Saskatchewan a couple of years ago JoAnn Wilson was murdered. We had the conviction of Colin Thatcher, a very prominent citizen of Saskatchewan. It was a very difficult case. The jury, if I remember correctly, took some five days to make a decision. I wonder whether Colin Thatcher would have been convicted of first-degree murder, which he was, if capital punishment was in force. I rather doubt it. The decision was difficult enough without the issue of capital punishment. With capital punishment, it would have been made a lot more difficult.
I believe if we had capital punishment, there would be millions of Canadians sitting on juries who would never knowingly send someone to the gallows and have blood on their conscience for the rest of their lives. That is an absolute fact. There are a lot of Canadians who would not convict someone if they knew that person had to face the executioner.
A Conservative friend of mine back here is laughing. 1 suggest it is no laughing matter. We are talking about something very serious.
My fifth question asks, can an innocent person be executed if we had capital punishment? I think the answer is very clearly yes. Again, the Conservative Member of Parliament from Ottawa West put some statistics on the record which proved that where they have capital punishment, over history,
many, many innocent people have been executed. I do not want this to happen in this country. I could not have that on my conscience. So I ask Members of Parliament to think very seriously about the possibility of an innocent person being executed.
Along that line, I would like to refer to a letter in the Prairie Messenger, which is a newspaper of the Roman Catholic Church in the Province of Saskatchewan. It was a letter written recently by Mr. Robert Eisler of Regina. I wish Members of Parliament who are leaning towards capital punishment would listen to Mr. Eisler's arguments. He says in part:
As long as we are human there is always the danger of putting an innocent person to death. So long as that possibility exists it completely destroys all arguments in favor of the death penalty.
How can I in all conscience vote for a return of the noose? In so doing, and should an innocent person be put to death, I would be compelled to spend the rest of my life with blood on my hands.
That is what Mr. Eisler wrote in the Catholic newspaper in Saskatchewan.
With the return of capital punishment, it is only a matter of time before an innocent person is put to death, and once someone is put to death there is no way of making amends or issuing apologies. Once that person is dead, that person is dead, and it is much too late. So I ask Members of Parliament to think very carefully about that issue before they rise in this House and ask that people be put to death in this country.
I refer to the Donald Marshall case recently in Nova Scotia. He was convicted of murder and after a number of years it was proven that Mr. Marshall was innocent. This was second-degree murder, but it is only a matter of time before someone is convicted of first-degree murder and put to death. As the Hon. Member for Ottawa West said, this has happened hundreds of times throughout history in countries and states which have capital punishment. Again I ask Members who want to vote for capital punishment, for hanging, to think twice before they do so.
My sixth question asks, if we bring back capital punishment, who is going to be executed? There was a study done of all the executions in Canada since we became a country back in 1867. It was found in this study that in the main it was the poor people who were executed; it was the disadvantaged who were executed; it was the native Indians who were executed in great numbers; it was the eastern Europeans, people of Ukrainian descent who, historically, were more likely to be executed than Anglo-Saxons. In the United States it is blacks who go to the gallows much more often then white Americans. That is so because they do not have the money to hire the best lawyers. They do not have the privileges that the wealthy have in our society.
Once again I say to Hon. Members, if we bring back capital punishment we will be bringing in a law from which the rich will once again be protected to a greater degree than the poor,


the deprived and the disadvantaged. I ask some of my wealthy friends in the House who are intending to vote for capital punishment to think very carefully about who, in the main, they will be sending to the gallows.
My seventh question is this. Will we save money by bringing back capital punishment? I have heard some people say, "Hang them, execute them, you will save money. Look at how much it costs to keep someone in jail. It costs thousands of dollars to keep someone in jail". Once again I say that that is a wrong argument. It is wrong to even base this type of argument on financial matters.
However, even if it is based on financial matters, I argue that it would cost the state more to bring in capital punishment than it would to keep someone in jail. There would be appeal after appeal, and millions and millions of dollars would be spent in the appeal process which would, once again, cost the Canadian people a great deal of money.
The next question I want to ask my fellow MPs who are thinking seriously about voting in favour of the return of capital punishment is this. Even if we bring back capital punishment, even if we bring back the hangman, will people be executed anyway? My answer to that is probably not. I cannot foresee any Prime Minister of Canada in the next number of years who will want to have on his conscience the fact that he had not commuted the death sentence for some Canadian. When we pass a Bill on capital punishment I assume that the power to commute a death sentence would rest with the Cabinet.
I cannot see the present Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) ever agreeing because he believes in abolition. He does not believe in vengeance. He does not believe in capital punishment. In my opinion the present Prime Minister would never in effect, sign a death warrant, to have blood on his hands by agreeing to have someone sent to the gallows. That would not happen if the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Turner) were Prime Minister. It would not happen if the Leader of the NDP (Mr. Broadbent) were Prime Minister. It did not happen with the former Prime Minister, Mr. Trudeau. It did not happen with the Prime Minister before that, the current Secretary of State for External Affairs, the Hon. Member for Yellowhead (Mr. Clark).
I am also proud to say that the present Minister of Justice (Mr. Hnatyshyn) has strongly hinted to the people of Canada that he would have to reconsider staying in his post as Minister of Justice if capital punishment were brought back and if he was faced with the possibility of having to send someone to the gallows.
Again, if we pass a resolution to establish a Bill to bring back capital punishment we will be setting up a process whereby legally we will have capital punishment but the final result will be that we will not send people to the gallows.
I ask another question of Hon. Members. Supposing someone in the family of an Hon. Member was convicted of murder, what would they do? I suspect there is not a single
Capital Punishment
person in the House who would not fight as hard as possible and use all the money they had to try to free that particular person. I want once again to quote Mr. Eisler's letter as it appeared in the Catholic Church's Prairie Messenger.
I have one question for those favouring a return of the death penalty. God forbid, but if some member of their family were charged with murder, would they still be in favour of capital punishment? Or would they be willing to spend their last dollar to prevent the ultimate? If not, I would hesitate to refer to them as caring and loving parents.
How can 1 promote capital punishment for someone else's son or daughter when I refuse to accept it for one of my own?
I think that is a very strong and compelling argument. There are a great many other arguments. There are a great many churches and a great many people who want to make those arguments. Because of that I want to move an amendment to the motion before the House, an amendment that will give the churches and the people of Canada more time to present their cases. My amendment is seconded by the Hon. Member for Burnaby (Mr. Robinson) and it reads as follows:
That the word "three" in lines 5 and 14 be deleted and that the word "six" be substituted therefor.
This amendment would mean that instead of having three months to study the issue of capital punishment the committee would take six months to study it. The people of Canada, namely, the churches, which have shown tremendous leadership on this issue, would have more time to talk to Canadians about how wrong it is in a decent and civilized society to bring back capital punishment, to provide the same laws in our country as exit in the Soviet Union, China, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Chile, and other countries in South America. Surely to goodness we can strive for higher ideals and higher moral values than there are in some of the countries I have just named. I appeal to my friends in the House not adopt the same mentality as those in the Soviet Union, Chile, South Africa, Iraq or Iran. For God's sake, we are a more decent, democratic and civilized society than some of those countries.
I say that it is not morally right to have capital punishment in Canada. It is not morally right, and the churches have said that to us. The Catholic Church has said time and time again that it is not right, as has the Anglican Church, the Lutheran Church, the United Church, the Mennonites and other churches. Representing the moral leadership of the country they have said no, no, no to capital punishment on moral terms. This House should be saying no, no, no to capital punishment as well.
I want to conclude by asking a few more questions. Can I ever vote for a Bill on capital punishment? Obviously, my answer is no, for the nine or ten reasons I have already given. If I cannot vote for capital punishment, then how can I pass a law which will state that another Canadian must make the decision to kill? If I cannot kill myself, if I cannot be the hangman myself or the executioner, how can I pass a law that will make it mandatory for another Canadian to do that job? How can I pass a law that states that a jury must make a decision on life or death? I cannot pass such a law.


Capital Punishment
How could I pass a law which would state that a judge must make a decision on life or death? I cannot morally do that. I do not know why I should then pass that decision on to a judge or a jury.
I ask you, Mr. Speaker, is it fair to expect, if capital punishment is returned, to have a medical doctor stand and verify that somebody has been hung by the neck until dead and then pronounce that person dead? Should we expect a medical doctor to do that whether the method of execution is by hanging, electric chair or lethal injection? Is it fair to force the people in the medical community to go through that type of uncivilized act? It is not fair. I would not do it. How can I pass a law saying that we expect doctors to do it?
Is it fair to expect a minister of the cloth, a reverend or a priest, or what have you, to be there when someone is executed and to give them their last rites, to be with them and try to comfort them? That is not fair.
I ask you, Mr. Speaker, is it morally right to leave someone who is condemned on death row year after year after year while the appeals go on and on, while the date of execution is pushed back and back? Do Members of the House really believe in that kind of torture? I ask them if they believe in that type of torture for someone who is condemned?
I also ask if Members of the House really believe that it is fair to the family of the condemned woman or man, to see their brother, sister, father, mother, cousin or loved one on death row waiting week after week and month after month and year after year while appeals are being exhausted and retried and exhausted once again?
Finally, I ask whether any Member of this House of Commons would volunteer to be the hangman? Someone has to pull the trigger, someone has to push the button. I suggest that there is no one in the House of Commons who would do that.


Yes, there is, right here.


Yes, I would.


The Hon. Member for Calgary North (Mr. Gagnon) would do it, and so would the Hon. Member for Selkirk-Interlake (Mr. Holtmann). They are exceptions. They would volunteer to be the hangman, to push the button.


We had a million people go serve in the war who do not want to fight against crime.


Almost no one in the House would do it. If we would not do it or they would not do it, how can they vote for a Bill that forces someone else to do it?


As long as you were standing there we would do it.


We have had hangmen in this country who have committed suicide because of the job they had to do. These are people who lived a life of sheer hell because of the job they had to do.
Mr. Speaker, if we would not do it ourselves, how can we pass a law that obligates another member of our society to be the executioner, to be the hangman?
We live in a civilized society. We have a great country. I believe we now have to reach for higher morals, for a higher standard in society. History will judge us on how we vote on this issue. Years down the road, when I am asked where I stood on this very historical debate, I will be able to say with pride that I stood on the side of decency, that I stood on the side of higher morals in our society, that I stood on the side of a democratic society, a just society; that I did not stand on the side of those who want to bring back the noose, taking us closer to the kind of society we see in the Soviet Union, or China, or Iraq, or Turkey, or Iran, or Chile, and other countries of South America, or South Africa. 1 do not believe in the kind of society that exists in those places. I believe that Canadian people reflecting on this issue will overwhelmingly come down on the side that capital punishment is morally wrong and dangerous for Canada as a country.


The House has heard the terms of Mr. Nystrom's amendment. The Chair finds the motion for amendment in order.
Questions or comments?
The Hon. Member for London East (Mr. Jepson), on debate.


Mr. Speaker, it is a privilege for me to rise in the House today to speak on the issue of capital punishment, an issue on which there are deeply held convictions on both sides. It is wrong for those on either side of the issue to claim the high moral ground. Those on both sides of the question have deep convictions. It is wrong to impute that one side has the high moral ground and the other not.
In the debates that I have had with the former Solicitor General, the Member for Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine East (Mr. Allmand) and Mr. Edward Greenspan, it was generally agreed that the statistics will not conclusively prove either side of the issue.
I am in favour of capital punishment for first degree murder, or premeditated murder. I believe the courts must have the capital punishment option. The Government must make it clear that society will not tolerate the premeditated taking of a life. The clear message must be that the sanctity of life is foremost in our considerations.
Today, Mr. Speaker, we see a focus on the rights of the accused as an individual. But, what about the collective rights


and the protection of society as a whole? Are those rights not deserving of consideration and protection?
We hear that the guilty party is a product of his or her environment and is therefore not responsible for his or her actions. I believe that we are all ultimately responsible for our actions, and must be held accountable. When are we going to see a focus on individual responsibility and accountability in our society?


Hear, hear!


I respectfully suggest, Mr. Speaker, that responsibility fosters a just society; an undue focus on individual rights fosters rebellion. Our criminal laws must be based on justice, and under those laws a person must be responsible for his or her actions.
The 1978-79 statistics show that the average time served in prison for attempted murder before being granted parole was four years and nine months; for manslaughter, two years and nine months; for kidnapping, two years and six months; for rape, two years. What kind of a message do those statistics send to society about the sanctity and value of life, about justice in our society.
In looking at the issue of capital punishment, it is important that we look at the over-all justice system. And in looking at the plea bargaining system, at the parole system, at the bail laws, and all other aspects of justice, we see that there has to be a tightening up, there has to be more accountability. We must send a stronger message to society. It must be made clear that we will not tolerate blatant abuse of the laws of our land, blatant abuse of the protection and rights of all Canadians.
The abolitionists in this debate have a concern about error, about the possibility of an innocent person being executed. Since Confederation, there has not been one person executed who was later found to be innocent. Yet, since 1920 there have been eight murderers released, with the resultant loss of 11 more innocent lives. Many of those victims had a full life ahead of them, with expectations and dreams. They were simply snuffed out.
We speculate about the margin of error in the court system, with no concrete evidence that in fact it works against the innocent. We do, however, have concrete evidence to support the fact that 11 innocent lives have been snuffed out by repeat offenders, by murderers who had been released.
I have faith in our judicial system. I have faith in the men and women of Canada who are involved in the judicial system. I have faith in the due process of law, with the exhaustive appeal system that is in place.
Those on the other side of this issue are constantly throwing out this red herring about the possibility of an innocent person being executed. They cite the Donald Marshall case as an example of a situation where an innocent man could have been taken to the execution chamber. We know better than that. Donald Marshall was charged with, and convicted of, second
Capital Punishment
degree murder, not first degree murder. What I stand for is capital punishment for first degree, premeditated murder.
We hear the Biblical quotation "an eye for an eye, a tooth for tooth" as justification for vengeance.
Mr. Speaker, what that scripture is saying to us is that we must have sentences that are commensurate with the crime committed. It is not that the punishment for cutting a person's arm off is to cut off the arm of the perpetrator of that act; that the punishment for killing a person is necessarily that the perpetrator of that act should be killed.
What we are saying is that we must have punishments commensurate with the crime committed, and I do not believe we are seeing that in the operation of our judicial system today. I repeat the statistics cited earlier. For attempted murder the average prison sentence is four years and nine months; for manslaughter, where a life has actually been taken, the average time in prison is two years and nine months.
1 find such sentences hard to comprehend in our society today.
We also hear those on the opposite side of this question quoting scripture, "Thou shalt not kill". What the scripture says is, "Thou shalt not murder". It cannot be said that the state, in carrying out an execution, is murdering or killing; what the state is doing is executing judgment.
Romans 13.1.6 tells us that God places Governments in authority over the people, to provide for the protection of society. Those who commit no wrongdoing or evil have nothing to fear; but those who do break the law, those who do commit crimes of violence, have to fear the "execution of the sword", as it is quoted in scripture. In other words, they have to stand fully accountable under the law.
Furthermore, Genesis 9.6 says, "Who so sheddeth a man's blood by man shall blood be shed."
I believe scripture very clearly states that capital punishment is in order for first degree premeditated murder.
We heard the New Democratic Member for Yorkton- Melville (Mr. Nystrom) talk about the stands of the various churches. There is no question that the executives of the United and Anglican Churches, as well as the Conference of Catholic Bishops, have stated that they are against capital punishment. There is no question about that. However, they are not speaking for their memberships. If they were speaking for their memberships, it would be clearly reflected in the polls, yet we see that for a number of years the percentage of Canadians in favour of capital punishment has hovered between 60 per cent and 70 per cent. It is quite obvious that they are not speaking for their memberships; they are speaking as executives of the respective churches.
Turning to the question of deterrence, I agree with my friend from Saskatchewan who spoke before me that it cannot be conclusively proven that capital punishment is a deterrent.


Capital Punishment
However, it cannot be proven conclusively that there is not a deterrent factor.
If capital punishment does not deter crime, why do criminals fear it more than any other penalty? Why does almost every criminal sentenced to death appeal for life imprisonment? Life is irrefutably the murderer's most valuable possession.
According to J. Edgar Hoover, a Director of the FBI, professional law enforcement officers are convinced from experience that hardened criminals have been and are deterred from killing based on the prospect of the death penalty.
If we reflect back to 1971 and the Kingston Prison riots, at that time capital punishment was in effect for the killing of prison guards. Although 12 lives were lost in that sad event, not one prison guard was killed. In fact, the prisoners murdered two inmates and dressed them up as prison guards, hoping to fool the media and those with whom they were negotiating to try to bring it to an end which was to their satisfaction.
I find it ironic that we live in a day and age when we see 66,000 unborn babies murdered each year. Yet, we see a Party like the NDP to my right, which is kind of ironic, standing for abortion on demand, to continue the wanton killing of innocent lives. At the same time, as a bloc, as a Party, it stands against capital punishment.
In conclusion, may I say that I am grateful for the opportunity to speak on this important issue. I move, seconded by the Hon. Member for Simcoe North (Mr. Lewis):
That the debate be now adjourned.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the yeas have it.
And more than five Members having risen:


Call in the Members.
(Division No. 218)

Members
Attewell	Grise	PorterBelsher	Gurbin	RavisBernier	Hamilton	RedwayBlais	Harvey	ReimerBouchard	Hawkes	St-JulienBourgault	Holtmann	SchellenbergBoyer	Horner	(Nanaimo-Alberni)Bradley	Howie	SchellenbergerBrightwell	Jelinek	(Wetaskiwin)Brisco	Jepson	ScottBrowes	Joncas	(Victoria-Haliburton)Cardiff	Jourdenais	ScottChampagne	Kempling	(Hamilton-Wentworth)(Champlain)	Kindy	ScowenClifford	King	SparrowClinch	Lanthier	SpeyerCollins	Lawrence	StewartComeau	Lesick	SulukCorbett	Lewis	TardifCossitt	MacDougall	(Charlesbourg)Cote	(Timiskaming)	Taylor(Lac-Saint-Jean)	Malone	ThackerDantzer	Mayer	TowersDarling	Mazankowski	TremblayDomm	McCain	(Quebec-Est)Fennell	McCrossan	Van De WalleFontaine	McCuish	VankoughnetForrestall	McKinnon	WarnerFraleigh	McKnight	WhiteFriesen	Nickerson	WilsonGagnon	Nowlan	(Swift CurrentGottselig	Oostrom	-Maple Creek)Gray	Pennock	Winegard-92(Bonaventure-Iles-de-la-Madeleine) Greenaway	Peterson Pietz Plourde	
++NAYS
Members
Allmand	Hopkins	NunziataAngus	Johnston	NystromBenjamin	(Saint-Henri-	OuelletBerger	Westmount)	Pennerde Corneille	Kaplan	Prud'hommeEpp	Keeper	Riis(Thunder Bay-	Lapierre	RobichaudNipigon)	Malepart	RobinsonFoster	Manly	Young-29Gauthier	Marchi	Grondin	McCurdy	Heap	Murphy


I declare the motion carried. [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, on a point of order.


The Hon. Member for Saint-Maurice (Mr. Grondin) on a point of order.
The House divided on the motion (Mr. Jepson), which was agreed to on the following division:


Mr. Speaker, I simply wanted to say that I would have voted against the motion, like my Party colleagues.


Very well, your vote will be recorded. [English]
It being 1.05 p.m., I do now leave the Chair until 2 p.m.
At 1.05 p.m. the House took recess.


AFTER RECESS

The House resumed at 2 p. m.
Mr. Speaker, following the failure of the most recent First Ministers' Conference on aboriginal rights, the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) said: "That was not the end of it... I deeply regret we did not succeed but-we shall try again to make sure that justice comes about for the native peoples of Canada".
All Hon. Members can applaud, approve and wholeheartedly support that affirmation of the Prime Minister of Canada. That being so, I ask this House if it is not curious, therefore, that the Government is terminating its constitutional funding to the national native organizations for aboriginal rights research and negotiation, with special reference to the right of self-government?
The Minister of Justice (Mr. Hnatyshyn) has no reply except to say that funding will end as of June 30. I ask him and I ask the Prime Minister is it not really the case that aboriginal issues have been pushed off the agenda of the Government and the hope is that a few good words and nice sentiments from time to time will suffice as those unresolved rights are permitted to disappear from our sight?


Mr. Speaker, I believe the death penalty for people who deliberately plan and then murder a human being is a deterrent. However, whether it is or not, I support the execution of such murderers. Why? Primarily because Biblical evidence in both the Old and New Testaments supports capital punishment.
"Whoso sheddith man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed ... ''(Genesis 9:5,6). No later statements in the Holy Book cancel this principle of civil government.
Again, Paul the Apostle endorsed capital punishment when he said: "If I be an offender or have committed anything worthy of death, I refuse not to die: (Acts 25:11). And when
God gave us the Ten Commandments to guide our behaviour in life, the verse says: "Thou shalt not kill" (Exodus 20:13). But if we disobey this commandment then we are punished, and for premeditated murder under the Mosaic Law the punishment was death.
When Christ was on the cross he forgave the sins of the thief, but He did not stop the execution and He could have, had He chosen to do so.


Mr. Speaker, the Standing Committee on Secretary of State has recommended that the budget of the Women's Program be at least maintained at current levels, indexed to the cost of living and, if possible, be increased to meet the needs of new groups and address emerging priorities. The Women's Program gives the Government excellent value for its money in terms of volunteer hours and staff dedication.
Additional funds are required for projects aimed specifically at improving the status of women who are doubly disadvantaged, such as women who live in remote regions, those who are disabled or are members of a visible minority. Government must not pit established groups agains