The House resumed from Thursday, August 13, consideration of the motion of Mr. Bouchard that Bill C-84, an Act to amend the Immigration Act, 1976 and the Criminal Code in consequence thereof, be read the second time and referred to a legislative committee.
Mr. Speaker, thank you for recognizing me and for giving me this opportunity to express my views on second reading of Bill C-84, an Act to amend the Immigration Act, 1976 and the Criminal Code in consequence thereof.
Mr. Speaker, this debate on second reading is important for all Canadians and for all Members of this House, since the way we approach this debate is an expression, as it were, of our political philosophy and goes to the very heart of what we want to be as a nation and as a society: that is, open and generous to all people throughout the world who face torture and are deprived of their freedom and who are seeking a country of refuge and a safe haven.
Our position on Bill C-84 arises from our concept of the kind of society we want to live in and the role that society can and must play on the international scene.
Today we are not just analysing Bill C-84, we are examining our own conscience. When our children and grandchildren look at this period in our history and see how Canadian men and women, and especially parliamentarians, reacted when a boat with some 100 refugees approached the shores of Nova-Scotia, they will judge us; and today, we should ask ourselves whether our children and grandchildren will be proud of what we as parliamentarians have done. Will they be able to say they are proud of their parliamentary ancestors? Will they be able to say that we acted firmly but also with compassion? Will they say that we acted fairly and humanely? I will leave this question for the time being, but I would like to get back to it later on.
Mr. Speaker, I realize, as I said before, that this is an important problem, but I do not think that today, August 14,
1987, this legislation is as urgently needed as the Government keeps saying. In fact, would you not agree that the emergency is a direct result of this Government's incompetence, a Government that failed to recognize the warning signs of the crisis with which it is faced today and whose extent it has grossly exaggerated? Mr. Speaker, the phony refugee problem has been with us for some time, and as the Hon. Member for York West (Mr. Marchi) said yesterday or the day before in his speech on second reading, and I quote: "Not only did the Government wait three years to introduce a solution to a problem that was discovered many years ago but it took 10 days from the time it declared an emergency to tell Canadians and parliamentarians when we would be coming back."
Mr. Speaker, the Government's record is appalling. First of all, in April, 1985, if I am not mistaken, we had the Plaut report. This was an impressive document, several hundred pages long, that was prepared by a group of experts and recommended the approach the Government should take to the refugee question. Although the document has been in the Government's possession since the spring of 1985, the Government has failed to follow through on any of the Plaut Commission's recommendations.
Secondly, Mr. Speaker, in late 1985 a parliamentary three-Party committee of the House tabled a report, a copy of which I have here. The committee examined the Plaut Commission recommendations and came up with unanimous recommendations of its own. In this document the three Parties-the Government Party and the two opposition Parties-made recommendations to the Government concerning the best way to settle the issue of illegal refugees crossing our borders and gaining entry into this country. Having already turned thumbs down on the Plaut recommendations, the Government again dismissed the recommendations advocated by a committee of this House.
Mr. Speaker, we were told this is an emergency, yet about a year ago a group of Tamils landed on the shores of Nova Scotia. A whole year went by without the Government, the Minister of Employment and Immigration (Mr. Bouchard) or anybody else doing anything about it. Now, all of a sudden, we are faced with this makeshift emergency.
Mr. Speaker, I think that the only sentence or the only point which the Government singled out of the Plaut Commission report is the comment which appears as a conclusion on page 215. Here are the words of Rabbi Plaut: "I conclude this report by recalling the remarks made by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in the Summer of 1984. To a
\

August 14, 1987
Immigration Act, 1976
large extent the ability of states to react positively in situations involving refugees depends on the frame of mind of the public."
He also stressed the fact that, unfortunately, there is irrefutable evidence that in recent years public opinion has failed to make the distinction between the very special plight of refugees and the situation of many millions of other foreigners who have attempted to cross borders into countries other than their own. Such confusion led to prejudice towards refugees and dampened the sympathetic attitudes in official circles towards them. We Canadians would be well advised to heed this word of warning.
Mr. Speaker, the Government did heed the warning all right, but it gave a completely different interpretation to the action advocated by Rabbi Plaut, especially so with respect to his caveat. The arrival of a boatload of Sikhs on the shores of Nova Scotia was seen by the Government as an opportunity to rouse public opinion, not to prepare it to react generously to real refugees. Government officials used the incidents which occurred in Nova Scotia to stir public opinion just so they would have an excuse to introduce a stiff measure likely to appease the most conservative wing of the Party in office. Talk about emergency, 10 whole days elapsed before the House was recalled to consider Bill C-84! Had the matter been really urgent, had the Government known what it was doing when the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) pushed the panic button, it seems to me we would not have been kept waiting for so long before coming back to the House to debate the bill before us.
Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the Liberal Party and Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Turner) told the House about the true reason for recalling Parliament, namely to solve the problem of Bill C-22 on pharmaceutical products. Yesterday, the Minister of Employment and Immigration attacked the Liberal position on this issue. Our position is quite clear. As we have maintained in the House for weeks and months, we are opposed to Bill C-22. The Liberal Senators are not alone in their opposition as all Liberal Members of this House have vigorously objected against Bill C-22 in its original form. Today, Government Members are doing their best to create a division between the Liberal Senators and the Liberal Members of this House. We have worked together. We are against the Bill as introduced. I would like to point out to the Hon. Member for Roberval, the Minister of Employment and Immigration, that the Quebec Liberal caucus is against the original Bill, and tell him that the real reason for recalling Parliament is to try to make us swallow Bill C-22, which goes against the interests of most Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, Bill C-22 will be coming back to the House and we have made our position clear. The previous Liberal Government created the Eastman Commission and our position is that the Government should follow the recommendations of the Eastman Commission to the effect that copyrights on new pharmaceutical products should be protected not for 10 years, but for four to five years. We shall continue to defend this position and the Government will have to accept it
because we believe that the legislation it has introduced goes against the interests of the Canadian people.
Let us now come back to Bill C-84, Mr. Speaker. When we look at the basic issues, we have to say clearly that no Liberal Member can approve the abuses resulting from fraudulent claims, cheating and, in some cases, a real racket in human lives. We object to such abuses and we are willing to legislate to provide more appropriate controls and penalties for the offenders. However, this does certainly not mean that we approve Bill C-84 as introduced. This Bill is reactionary and excessive. It exploits unreasonably the present climate of legitimate frustration in Canada caused by the mismanagement of this Government as it attempts to use a difficult situation to try to increase the Government Party's popularity in the polls. Bill C-84 attacks the basic freedoms of Canadians. In other words, Bill C-84 tries to kill a gnat with a canon.
Mr. Speaker, no one questions the fact that the abuses must be eliminated and the system improved. However, does this mean that the legislation should go against our Charter of Rights, our traditions of national development and our traditional immigration policy which is at the very root of the history of this country?
Canada has always welcomed immigrants. The abuses must indeed be corrected. However, it is unacceptable to exploit this situation for partisan purposes, Mr. Speaker.
1 would now like to deal more in detail with a few items. Under proposed Section 95.1 in Bill C-84, any individual, any Canadian, any church, any priest, any nun who works in a country where there is no freedom and who is in contact with his or her order here in Canada, all those people helping refugees come to Canada are liable to the same penalties as the so-called immigration consultants whose only motive is to get rich on the backs of the weak and people deprived of any freedom.
Would Canadians accept that a social worker, a priest or a nun be put in prison as a common crook? The Minister says the act must be the same for everybody. But that act is being passed by the Minister of Employment and Immigration, by this Government that treats church people, social workers and charitable institutions that were set up to help people in need as if they were common crooks and smugglers.
Yesterday, I raised the matter of the Stastny brothers. In his answer the Minister claimed I was exaggerating.
Mr. Speaker, 1 read Section 95.1 again. Can they suggest for instance that the Czech hockey players who left their country on the occasion of a hockey tournament in Vienna to come to Canada and play with the Nordiques were in fact people who wanted to get out of their country? Is it possible to suggest they had their passports with them, knowing what is going on in those totalitarian countries? They jumped into the Nordiques' car and there was a wild chase through Vienna, followed by Czechoslovakia's secret police. Well now, if Marcel Aubut and his assistant were not in breach of Section 95.1 as now proposed, Mr. Speaker, I don't know who can be!
August 14, 1987

The Minister stated yesterday the section would be interpreted generously. But he will not interpret the act-the courts will, and his immigration officers. How could he say that yesterday from his seat?
Mr. Speaker, as the proposal now stands, Marcel Aubut and Gilles Leger would have been liable to imprisonment for five years. What would have happened to Mr. Peterson, the brother of Ontario's current Premier, who helped the Russian dancer Baryshnikov enter Canada to get out of the Soviet Union- when he brought him in his car from a hotel from which he had escaped to some cottage, in order to protect him while waiting for the Canadian Goverment's answers? Was that not a person, a Canadian helping a political refugee? Can they claim that Baryshnikov had his passport or his visa in his pocket? The fact he did not would have made Mr. Peterson liable to five years' imprisonment.
Does that make sense? Is that the goal pursued by the Government? This is beyond me. And when I hear Hon. Members and the Minister suggest this is a wrong interpretation-please, read that section again. Read that clause again taking into account that it is not necessarily the present or future minister that will have to interpret the Act, but the courts which have to make decisions based on the statute as it stands.
Mr. Speaker, obviously, those who take advantage of the credulity of the destitute, raking off thousands of dollars per person, deserve to be punished and this is why we oppose the Bill as it stands. I ask the government to be more specific and not to put in the same boat social workers, charitable organizations and gangster trafficking in human lives.
Section 103.02(5) provides that an immigration officer may without any warrant collect evidence that an individual is violating the Immigration Act.
However, should we, Mr. Speaker, in order to be fair and firm, trample the rights of citizens, churches and organizations advocating human rights? If a warrant is required to make a search at the place of alleged members of organized crime, why should we allow a search among charitable organizations helping refugees to survive? They are bunched together with traffickers in human lives. Immigration officers are given the right to make a search without a warrant, a right denied to police officers fighting against organized crime. I find such a clause unacceptable and it is repugnant to all liberal minds. Those steps are worthy of a totalitarian regime and not of a great democratic nation.
The Bill provides also for special detention certificates. The Government would like to extend arbitrarily from 48 hours to seven days the detention period, with a possibility for the Minister to add three additional weeks without the so-called refugee having the right to meet an adjudicator. Mr. Speaker, this flies in the face of basic human rights. Again, I feel these are excessive means to reach a goal which is altogether honourable, that of preventing abuse, discovering frauds and punishing profiteers.
Immigration Act, 1976
Finally, I should like to call the attention of the House on a comment made yesterday by my colleague from York West: If this Bill is adopted as is, it will give rise to a whole series of appeals and recourse before our courts under the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. What will be their impact on our system? What will happen, six or 12 months from now, when appeals are made everywhere on the basis of the Charter thus leading to an eventual bog down of the process? Mr. Speaker, I should like to indicate to the House what may possibly happen. Our system could become even more chaotic and put even more to the test the patience and confidence of Canadians. Let us draft a Bill which will be sheltered as much as possible from appeals to the courts and accusations of human rights violations, failing which we might be faced with the same problems 12 months from now. And 1 ask the Minister this: What would you do if two other boats arrived tomorrow morning, filled with real refugees? Now, Mr. Speaker, we must be realistic and Canada has a role to play. 1 am not saying that we should accept all those men and women who claim to be refugees. That has never been our position on this side of the House. But we believe in universal access, as defined in the international agreements we have signed and, as a Government or a country, we cannot choose arbitrarily those who have the right to submit applications. I was here yesterday when the Hon. Member and Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Epp) indicated that he was against this notion of universal access. I do not know whether the Minister realizes that he is going against the International Conventions which we have signed, because Canada has adhered to this notion of universal access, which does not mean allowing all migrants entry to this country in whatever number whenever they please, but the possibility for a potential refugee seeking refugee status to have access to due process to determine whether he is a true refugee. After that, a country may decide to accept his application or not.
Mr. Speaker, by taking such stringent measures, the Government could weaken its position and become powerless when faced with the false refugee problem. It reminds me of a decision of the Quebec Minister of Finance a few years ago. At the time, drivers using some restricted highways had to pay a 25-cent toll. In an effort to increase considerably his revenues, the Minister of Finance doubled the tolls paid in Quebec on these limited access highway. The negative reaction was such that politically it became indefensible, so that now we have a system where drivers no longer pay tolls on these highways. 1 say that this Bill goes in the same direction. The Government is using such excessive means that it may end up with an even more difficult situation.
Mr. Speaker, I conclude and say that I am against any abuse of the system and I condemn all those who try to benefit from the miseries of others. But I also object to a bill which was drafted on the spur of the moment, which does not take into account the realities of the situation and our historic and

August 14, 1987
Immigration Act, 1976
world-wide reputation as a haven, which ignores the Plaut Commission recommendations as well as the unanimous recommendations of the parliamentary committee which studied the question. I agree with the Government that we must put a stop to abuses, but I simply cannot endorse any of the methods which may very well compromise the rights of genuine refugees and of those who try to help them. 1 also condemn a Government which has failed to anticipate a problem which had long since been in the making and about which the former administration had given a mandate to the Plaut Commission. The Conservatives did not act on the 1985 recommendations. Today, panic-striken and inspired by opportunism, they are urging the House to adopt a piece of legislation which, far from solving the problem, will make an already deplorable situation even worse and tarnish Canada's international reputation.


Mr. Speaker, it may be that the Hon. Member for Laval-des-Rapides (Mr. Garneau) considers our country's rights and sovereignty as a pesty fly which prevents him and his colleagues from acting as they see fit and destroying our national values. But Canadian rights are not like a fly in the estimation of this Government, they are the very foundation of this country. Hogwash is what we are getting from him, as usual. Listening to him is always a disappointment. He had a leader who was wont to resort to this method of talking nonsense to make a point, but at least there was an element of truth in what his leader Pierre Trudeau would say. But the Hon. Member knows full well that, among other things, for 10 years already we have had a statute which forbids these people to take such illegal steps. What he recommends we let priests and ministers do is already illegal. He also knows very well that we have a very special program for refugees from eastern countries. He knows there are all kinds of programs and services for people like Baryshnikov and all the other Russians and Czechs and other people who want to come to this country. There are special programs. However, that is not the issue here. My question for the Hon. Member is the following. In 1986, the Hon. Member for Outremont (Mrs. Pepin) said it was entirely unacceptable to have an immigrant reception system that penalized bona fide immigrants and a refugee system that penalized bona fide refugees, and that the people who should be punished were those who were trafficking in human misery. Why is the Hon. Member rising in the House today to tell us this unlikely story, a reflection of his Party's contradictory stance? It is entirely beside the point, and he knows that. He is getting political mileage out of people's lives. Today, these smugglers bring people to our shores who are exhausted, sick and ill-fed and maybe even have lice. Are we supposed to wait until people are brought in half-dead? Is the Hon. Member waiting for people to die, for what happened to the Mexicans who were locked up in a boxcar and were dead on arrival? Is that what he wants to happen before we pass legislation to prevent these traffickers from operating?


Mr. Speaker, it is of course difficult to engage in debate with the Hon. Member for Gatineau (Mrs. Mailly).
One is never sure what she said after she has said it. That being the case, 1 would like to repeat what I said, and I hope that this time, she will understand. We have said time and time again since the very beginning that we have no objection and, in fact, are prepared to support legislation that would genuinely be aimed at traffickers and smugglers, the people who traffick in human lives. However, we want this legislation to differentiate between those people and people who are working for humanitarian causes.
Mr. Speaker, as 1 said earlier, the Minister of Employment and Immigration (Mr. Bouchard), the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Epp) and the Hon. Member for Vancouver all said yesterday that everyone must be equal before the law, with which I fully agree, but the fact is that we are now making the law. We are the ones who will group together under Bill C-84 the racketeers in human lives and the religious, social and humanitarian groups that work to help refugees to find a haven and new freedom in Canada. When we put in the same category the activities of racketeers and those of these other people, we have to remember that it was not Church groups who put these peoples on the train to die, as we heard the Hon. Member say.
I would like to come back to Section 95.1 since the Hon. Member referred to it. This section is new. It says, for instance:
Every person who knowingly organizes, induces, aids or abets or attempts to organize, induce, aid or abet the coming into Canada of a person who is not in possession of a valid and subsisting visa, passport or travel document where one is required by this Act or the regulations is guilty of an offence and is liable
(a) on conviction on indictment, to a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or to both
Mr. Speaker, this section is quite clear. What choice would a judge have in hearing the case of Marcel Aubut, to whom 1 have referred, or of the brother of Premier Peterson, or others who provided assistance to people like Baryshnikov or the Stasny brothers? In such cases, is is not absolutely clear that these individuals have knowingly induced, aided or abetted the coming into Canada of other people? This is what the section states and there would be no choice.
This is why I invite the Hon. Member for Gatineau to listen to these views instead of being always so negative, to recognize that they are founded and to make the appropriate adjustments to avoid putting in the same category racketeers and people who work for humanitarian causes.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Hon. Member for Laval-des-Rapides (Mr. Garneau), whom I wish to thank for his very clear comments.
August 14, 1987

We have as a nation endorsed Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. That declaration provides that everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution. This article does not allow a right to refugees to be granted asylum, but it does underline that they have a right to seek asylum. This is called universal access.
Yesterday, the Government, through the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Epp), revealed its intention of breaking this United Nations Convention when, on page 8043 of Hansard, the Minister said:
1 do not believe that universal access is the manner through which Canada
should take the number of refugees which we have said we will.
Would the Hon. Member for Laval-des-Rapides comment on the statement of the Minister of National Health and Welfare?


Mr. Speaker, in my remarks a moment ago 1 had an opportunity to comment on that in French. I am very pleased to do so in English as well.
The statement made by the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Epp) yesterday was unbelievable. He said, at page 8043 of Hansard:
I do not believe that universal access is the manner through which Canada
should take the number of refugees which we have said we will.
1 do not know if the Minister was speaking on behalf of the Government, but that statement is in direct contradiction to our commitment under the United Nations agreement. One can see in the Plaut report all the documentation that Canada had signed as a member of the United Nations agreement.
Universal access means that any refugee can claim to come to Canada. It does not mean that he will be accepted, but universal access means that his refusal or acceptance should be determined through the due process of law. What the Minister stated yesterday is in direct contradiction. He does not want to accept the idea of the due process of law to separate the type of person that Canada can accept. In saying this, he is in direct contradiction with this country's obligation in terms of its commitment within the United Nations.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join in the debate this morning on Bill C-84, an Act to amend the Immigration Act. It deals primarily with deterrence and the detention of illegal immigrants. We have come back to Parliament this week to deal with this particular legislation along with Bill C-55, to respond to the real concern of Canadians that we are not in control of our borders.
This legislation does not concern legitimate immigration or genuine refugees or human rights of those living under repressive regimes. It deals with the protection of our own constituents, from Capilano to Newfoundland, against abusers, exploiters, and criminals; scofflaws who would have contempt
Immigration Act, 1976
for the laws of Canada. These kinds of people consider us easy marks for their schemes of fraud, piracy, and murder. This legislation is carefully aimed at a small minority, the smugglers and the conspirators who, unfortunately, have existed since the dawn of time.
Many Members who have already spoken in the debate have talked about the problem we are facing in Canada with the increasing numbers of persons who are seeking access to our country by our shores and through our airports by pretending to be refugees, but who obviously are not. That is the group we are trying to address by having tougher laws.
Canadians honestly feel, given the instances we have had in the past year, that Canada is becoming a patsy, an easy mark internationally. They are angry mad about it and do not want to be treated that way. It is a feeling of violation. For example, if one has a party in one's home, one invites guests and prepares for the hospitality. When there is a bunch of gatecrashers, one is very unhappy and wants to make sure they are removed. There is also the law to deal with them if they harm one's property.
Similarly, Canadians feel that there are gatecrashers at our borders who are trying to come in illegally but we do not have the tools under our present laws to deal with them effectively. Canadians want laws established that will deter such people. Such a mechanism is obviously the best remedy. Rather than having people arrive and go through all the processes, we should make sure there are already tough laws so that they are not induced to come here.
One obvious way to achieve this goal is by ensuring that those who are trying to organize that kind of illegal immigration to Canada, and those aiding and abetting it, are subject to very heavy penalties. Another method is by establishing a measure, such as the one in this Bill, requiring transportation companies to take much greater care in who they allow on their airlines or ships coming to Canada so that we are not faced with people arriving here without documentation and claiming refugee status. The fact is that in most cases such people are not genuine refugees.
We know that over the past year about 70 per cent of those who were claiming refugee status were not genuine refugees and are clogging access for real refugees. In fact, the number has risen this year so that about 90 per cent of those trying to get into this country as refugees are really not convention refugees about whom we are all concerned. It is that abuse that has brought us back here today.
Canadians are demanding that we as parliamentarians do something about it because they do not want to be used. That is why I am pleased to be debating Bill C-84 today and to have had the opportunity to debate Bill C-55 earlier. They have to be considered as a package to deal with the total problem.

August 14, 1987
Immigration Act, 1976
The main element of Bill C-84 is to provide deterrence. It provides for increased fines for smugglers and particularly for those who would organize groups of 10 or more because those are the kinds of incidents with which we have been faced over the past year. It requires transportation carriers to have documents of all those travelling in such carriers.
Yesterday in Question Period, the Hon. Member for York West (Mr. Marchi), 1 believe, talked about what a terrible thing it would be if the airlines collected people's documents, that that would make us the same as the Soviet Union. That is nonsense. What we are asking airlines to do is to ensure that people, first, have valid travel documents, that is passports or visas, and, second, that they do not get torn up on the way or given to someone else before the person actually gets on the plane.
I think what is interesting is that Air Canada, our own airline, already has that system in place. It is a very practical system. When one checks in with Air Canada, depending on where you are coming from, you provide a passport or visa. Air Canada makes a record of it on its computers so it has the number of one's passport or visa. As we know, when one checks in one has access to various shops. Unfortunately, some of the other airlines do not do a further check, so what happens is that people give their travel documents to someone else in the airport and those travel documents just circulate around. Air Canada has overcome that problem. Now just before one gets on a plane the documentation is again checked so they know one has documentation when one boards the plane. Because Air Canada already has the passport numbers, and because the documentation was checked before boarding, one would assume the documentation would be with the individual as he leaves the plane, although I suppose it could be flushed down the toilet. But if an individual presents himself on arrival without any travel documents, Air Canada will have the numbers by which those documents can be traced, and that to me is a very sensible way of doing things.
It would seem that if other airlines used such care and diligence we would not have the kinds of problems we are having at the present time. Although I believe the boat incident has received the greatest publicity, we know that the greatest number of illegal aliens are coming in through our airports. That is really where the problem needs to be tackled.
A lot of airlines have said they do not want to bother about checking these passports. They know they are supposed to do it but they do not. However, they are going to have to bother now or they are going to be fined. It will not be worth their while not to do it. 1 believe that if this particular provision of the legislation is enforced, it will prove very successful in cutting down and deterring these people from even trying to board an airplane in this manner. The same thing, of course, would apply to ships.
Another aspect of the legislation deals with detention. I believe Canadians feel justifiably frustrated that someone can
land on our shores without documentation. We do not know who they are or anything about them, but they can be released into society. We do not know if they have a criminal record or if they are potential terrorists. We do not have the tools at present to correct that situation.
With respect to the Halifax situation, we could keep the immigrants for seven days. There were hearings. It was very difficult to detain these people until we had appropriate information about them so that we could be confident we would not have a security risk. Under this legislation we will be able to detain people until their identity is known. As well, for those who have a criminal record, the Minister will have the power to send them right back and not give them access to the refugee determination system. That is something for which Canadians have been asking.
Earlier in the week I spoke on Bill C-55. 1 talked about Canadians wanting us to do these things. I had the feeling that people were sort of scoffing at these feelings of ordinary Canadians; like what do they know about these things and what rights do they have. In my own view of democracy, I feel we are here as legislators, as the vassals of Canadians. We are not above them. We are not elitists. The Government is not above and separate from the rest of Canadians. We are here as their representatives. We are not always right. We do not pretend to be. However, we do the best job we can to ensure that the deeply held concerns of Canadians are represented and that we deal with them effectively.
The other day I read some letters from some of my constituents on this issue. I would like to share with you a few more, because I think it puts into focus the reason we are here and the deep-felt concerns my constituents in Capilano have on this issue. One letter in part states:
Having people enter the country in this manner and allowing them to stay is setting a potentially catastrophic precedent; it serves no one's interest and certainly does not serve common sense.
I agree.
Another letter states, and I quote:
... greater punishment must be handed down to those who knowingly break our laws as the captain, et cetera, did in this case and who now according to the news is getting off with a very light fine. Our laws are a joke to many of these people for they know the fine will be light compared to our hefty handouts.
We are increasing the fines to a half million dollars and 10 years in jail, so we are certainly responding to that kind of concern.
I read from a third letter:
In the future the immediate impounding and subsequent sale of the mode of transport; heavy fines and long prison terms should be given to the principals responsible for organizing these groups.
Again, we are responding to each of those requests. We have a provision in this Bill whereby the Government can seize the vessel, boat or plane and put it up for sale. There are heavy fines and long prison terms for those persons responsible for organizing these groups. That is in Clause 95.
August 14, 1987

Finally, 1 would like to share a letter from a constituent of mine. It was written to the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Turner), but I received a copy. 1 feel he might be interested in what the people in Vancouver are saying. The writer states:
Firstly I am very disappointed with the approach of your Liberal caucus, whereby you have been attempting to delay progress on the new Bill C-55 which would finally bring some semblance of fairness to a terrible Immigration Act put forward by your predecessor in 1976.
I say "hear, hear" to that.
The letter continues:
There should be no doubt in the minds of any Government M.P. in the Government or in the Official Opposition that the solution of this problem should take the highest priority,-
In our view, it is taking the highest priority but, unfortunately, in the mind of the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Turner), especially when he spoke the other day in Parliament, it does not seem to be the highest priority. He asked why we even bothered to recall Parliament. Mind you, Mr. Speaker, I am having great difficulty in understanding the position of the opposition Party. The 174 persons arrived on the shores of Nova Scotia earlier in July. On July 17 the Leader of the Liberal Party said:
That boat might well have been apprehended and could have been turned back because this is not a legitimate refugee process.
This was said on CBC, the National. The reporter asked: "Do we know that now?", and the Right Hon. Leader replied:
Well, we know that the boat apparently comes from Europe and 1 don't know of any country in Europe that's persecuting people. I mean, this is not a boat that came from a country of origin.
1 agree with him on that. However, two days later on July 19 on CBC Radio, Cross Country Checkup, the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition was asked:
But, Mr. Turner, how do we know that some of these people wouldn't qualify under the Canadian system?
The Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition replied:
Well, they're not-if they came from Europe they were not fleeing a situation where they were facing prosecution or imprisonment or death.
He went on to say:
Well, I think the burden of proof-in situations where you've got a commercial enterprise and obviously a fraudulent effort to manipulate and bypass our regular refugee or our immigration policy-is on the boat.
His colleague, the Hon. Member for York West, the Liberal critic for immigration, said the following day, I suppose after hearing those comments:
I have some difficulty in appreciating that position, in its entirety, because our position has been for the last two years, and one that he's advocated as, is that there needs to be a processing.
A week later the Right Hon. Leader of the Liberal Party said:
The people on board could have been examined given some due processing, either at sea, or at port.
Immigration Act, 1976
My heavens, Mr. Speaker, quite honestly I think the first instincts of the Right Hon. Leader of the Liberal Party were right. I think he felt as outraged as we all did, but then all of the members of his caucus got together and said, no, we cannot say that. Now they are back here saying, good heavens, we cannot do any of these things. We are contravening all our international obligations. We have the wringing of hands as they talk about the church groups and so on.
1 do not know the position of the Liberal Party, but this has been typical in some other instances as well. When debating Bill C-55 this week the Leader of the Liberal Party had the temerity to say that public opinion on the refugee issue has been manipulated by the Government. That is nonsense. Has my colleague here, or my colleagues over there, somehow been manipulating Canadians? Canadians are outraged. They came to us and requested some action. That is what we are here to do.
The other point I wish to make is that during the debate we had a great discussion about proposed Section 95, and how terrible it is that the church groups will not be able to help refugees come across the border. 1 hope that my hon. colleagues are aware that the present Immigration Act provides for an offence. Section 95 states:
Every person who . . .
(m) knowingly induces, aids or abets or attempts to induce, aid or abet any person to contravene any provision of this Act or the regulations,
is guilty of an offence ...
In the regulations under the Immigration Act there is a requirement that every immigrant shall be in possession of a valid and subsisting passport issued to that immigrant, or a valid and subsisting identity or travel document. In other words, under the Immigration Act a passport, a visa, or a travel document is required. Anyone who aids or abets someone to enter Canada in contravention of that is presently contravening the law.
What has been added in proposed Section 95.1 is not new. It presently is an offence to aid or abet someone to enter Canada without an appropriate travel document. What has been done is increase the penalty for that particular offence. It is the people who are organizing the illegal immigrants that we wish to stop. We have the offence on the books. Has it been a problem for the church groups? No. The church groups are dealing with legitimate convention refugees.
Under the regulations it states that Subsection (1) does not apply to a convention refugee who is in possession of a valid subsisting immigrant visa where, in the opinion of the visa officer who issued the immigrant visa, it would be impractical to require that person to obtain a passport, or an identity or travel document. The provision is presently in the Immigration Act to deal with the convention refugee.
The other thing many of the opposition Members have missed is what now happens with the church groups, or should

August 14, 1987
happen according to the law; that is, they bring these persons to the border. Usually this is to the Canada-U.S. border. They have these persons present themselves to an immigration officer. That is legal. What is illegal is if they are brought into Canada and do not go through that process. That is what we are trying to stop. The fears of the members of the opposition Party are phoney and false. That will be discussed in the committee.
I have looked at the legislation, and it seems to me to be totally fair. In my view, and in the view of my colleagues, anyone who breaks the law should be treated in the same way. The ministers in my riding would not counsel their parishioners to break the law. The churches should not say that they are above the law. There are ways within the law whereby they can help the genuine convention refugees.
I would hope that we could move quickly on the passage of Bill C-84 and respond to the concerns of Canadians.


On questions and comments, the Hon. Member for Spadina (Mr. Heap).


I listened very carefully to the Hon. Member for Capilano (Mrs. Collins), particularly when she was speaking on the matter of the amendments in proposed Sections 95.1 and 95.2. 1 wish to ask the Hon. Member to confirm that it is not illegal to assist a person to come from the United States to the Canadian border to a Canadian immigration office. It is not illegal to do that, regardless of the person's possession of papers or travel documents?
In Section 95 of the present Canadian legislation which takes precedence over regulations it states:
Every person who
(a) comes into Canada at any place other than a port of entry and fails to report to an immigration officer for examination as required by subsection 12(1),
is guilty of an offence .. .
In Section 95(f) it states;
Every person who . . .
(f) eludes examination or inquiry under this Act. . .
It goes on to detail the different ways in which a person may elude, cut short, or escape examination.
In other words, it focuses on a duty to immediately come to an immigration office for examination in accordance with the Act. Under Section 95 only in the case of a person who eludes or fails to report, or in the case of a person who aids or abets someone in alluding or failing to report is it an offence.
Therefore, 1 am asking the Hon. Member if she considers that we should maintain Section 95 as it is, and that the proposed Sections 95.1 and 95.2 ought to be brought into line with that Section? Whether the person is doing it for profit, or whether it is a church person, as an Anglican priest I agree with her 100 per cent, that there should be no special privilege for church persons, clergy, or lay of any denomination
whatsoever. That has gone with the middle ages. Does the Hon. Member agree that any person who brings in a refugee claimant, or what might be thought to be a refugee claimant, and who brings that person immediately to the immigration office, is acting legally according to our present law and should not be made illegal in the amended law?


It is my understanding that it is not an offence to counsel a person to present himself to an officer to tell the truth. It would be an offence to counsel a person to present false documents, or in some way not to tell the truth. It is not an offence to transport a person to Canada for the purpose of presenting that person to an immigration officer. In my understanding, this section does not change that. This section has stiffer penalties for those who would organize or abet people to attempt to enter Canada without proper documentation, or false documentation. If they are convention refugees, as the regulations now allow for, they would not necessarily have to have that documentation to begin with.


Before I call it eleven o'clock, I advise the Hon. Member that she will have five minutes left for questions and comments after Question Period.
It being 11 o'clock a.m., pursuant to Standing Order 19(4) the House will now proceed to Statements by Members, pursuant to Standing Order 21.
OO)


Mr. Speaker, the Stein Valley, as you probably know, is the largest undeveloped watershed in southwestern British Columbia. Wildlife and recreation are great here because there are no roads.
The Stein River supports salmon and sports fisheries. The valleys of the Stein and its tributaries are covered with forests. The Stein's lower reaches are important to native cultural traditions. Archaeological sites and outstanding Indian pictographs give the Stein a cultural significance of exceptional value.
The Lillooet Tribal Council and the Lytton Indian Band are making a strong case to preserve the Stein. Between August 1 and August 4 they hosted the third Voices for the Wilderness Festival in the headwaters of the Stein. It was attended by 1,500 people, including David Suzuki.
The federal Government should play an active role in resolving the conflict over the future of the Stein Valley. I urge the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development
August 14, 1987

(Mr. McKnight) and the Minister of the Environment (Mr. McMillan) to impress upon the British Columbia Government the value of the Stein and to find a solution which will respect native rights and preserve this great wilderness resource for future generations.


Mr. Speaker, the trade talks with the United States are important to all Canadians. Having guaranteed access to the world's largest market can be of enormous benefit to Canadian industry. Most Canadians look forward to the draft agreement in October.
Of vital importance to our negotiators in that agreement is the protection of Canadian agriculture. No agreement could be acceptable without recognition of that vital sector of the Canadian economy.
An essential element of any protection for agriculture must include protection for the tender fruit industry. We cannot have our fruit farmers exposed to a completely open border or to the threat of American dumping.
Closely related to the tender fruit industry is, as well, our wine industry. Some 16,000 jobs are directly or indirectly dependent upon the Canadian wine industry. It must have the support of our negotiators and, indeed, all Canadians. Our trade negotiators must ensure that any agreement with the United States recognizes the vital importance of the wine industry to Ontario and to all of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I am ashamed the Province of British Columbia has one of the worst welfare systems and is now introducing even more regressive policies.
Recently the British Columbia Supreme Court ruled that the social service system discriminates against young people under the age of 26 who receive a lower rate of social assistance. Did the B.C. Government immediately raise rates by at least $25 to equalize payments regardless of age? No. Instead, it decided to give a token increase to youth and to have those over 26 years of age pay for this with reduced welfare rates, forcing all recipients to sleep in slums and to eat at food banks.
This kind of anti-human, punitive policy should not be subsidized by the federal Government which pays 50 per cent
of welfare costs. I call upon the federal Government to review and reform the Canada Assistance Plan to ensure that welfare rates across Canada are at least equal to the poverty line.


Mr. Speaker, the community of Bloomfield Station in my riding has joined with numerous other rural communities across Canada to express its opposition to Canada Post's renovation of rural postal service.
I have had meetings in Bloomfield with residents and community leaders. I had meetings with Canada Post officials, and Canada Post has met with the community. The residents of Bloomfield were not satisfied with the answers Canada Post gave them.
Post Office officials were totally unprepared to answer the questions. In fact, many key questions such as those referring to the total cost of implementing this new system, the cost difference between the old and the new service, and the location of group boxes being installed were among some of the important questions left unanswered.
In the past 1 have supported changes to postal service in my constituency, but Bloomfield Station, in the words of its residents "is not a sleepy little town that can be whitewashed" by Canada Post.
I strongly support the people of Bloomfield in their opposition to Canada Post's disruption of the traditional service to which this community is accustomed. It is unlikely that the savings gained by changing to this new system will amount to anything significant, certainly not worth the disruption to the traditional life of the community.


Mr. Speaker, when the Nielsen Task Force Report on Agriculture came out last winter it recommended that the Government force accrual accounting on farmers instead of the cash basis that has always been available to them. The report said that the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) could extract $1 billion more in income tax from farmers if the Minister switched to the accrual method.
Sure enough, when the Minister of Finance tabled his White Paper on Tax Reform there was a provision to force farmers to use the accrual accounting method where farmers are claiming

August 14, 1987
losses from other income. He is obviously determined to get the $1 billion in inco