Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the Government's response to petition No. 332-420.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 101, I have the honour of tabling, in both official languages, the report on the meeting of the Standing Committee of the Conference of Commonwealth Speakers and Presiding Officers held at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, from January 6 to 9, 1987.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106,1 have the privilege to present a petition on behalf of a number of residents of British Columbia registering their complaint against the proposal of the Government to change the Patent Act relating to prescription drugs. They believe that this will increase drug prices for Canadian consumers, and that it will severely restrict the ability of average Canadians to buy necessary prescription drugs. The petitioners believe that the proposed measure will unfairly hurt those Canadians whose health requires the


Mr. Speaker,
I have the pleasure to present to the House several petitions from my constituents who wish to avail themselves of their ancient and undoubted right to present a grievance.
Whereas a decision has been made to close Rideau Hall grounds by the National Capital Commission, the Department of Public Works, the RCMP, and the Office of the Governor General without prior notice; and whereas the closure of this attractive and tranquil park affects thousands of visitors to the capital from across the country who held Canada's uniquely accessible Rideau Hall as a symbol of the trust, openness, and democracy of which Canadians are so justly proud; and whereas area residents from the entire National Capital Region, who have used and enjoyed the grounds of Rideau Hall, recognize the security concerns that prompted the closure decision, the petitioners cannot accept a blanket closure of the 120 acre park to public access.
Therefore, the undersigned petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to open that decision for consultation with a group of citizens representative of the large and growing opposition, in order that a modus vivendi be created that would satisfy both the Government and the public.


I also have several petitions from constituents of Toronto, Scarborough, Willowdale, and Downsview. The petitioners wish to state that whereas the Government of Canada has imposed a retaliatory tariff on imported books in the English language which has limited the access of Canadians to literature and information, and whereas the tariff has had little negative effect on the publishing industry of the United States, it penalizes Canada's consumers, book publishers, book sellers, distributors, and Canada's culture. Rising book prices have placed a strain on the book acquisition programs and policies of our nation's public and specialized libraries. Therefore, the undersigned petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to rescind this tariff, which threatens irreparable harm to the Canadian book industry and compromises federal policy on cultural industries in respect of free trade negotiations.

February 5, 1987
Motions


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour and the duty to present two different petitions to the House. The first petition is from Senior Power and is signed by citizens of the City of Regina. The petitioners request Parliament to reject the proposals to increase prescription drug prices for Canadians by amendments to the Patent Act, and also because they will increase the cost of drugs to provincial government drug plans. The petitioners humbly pray for support from Parliament.


I have a further petition signed by residents of Vancouver, Coquitlam, and White Rock in British Columbia. The petitioners humbly sheweth that in their opinion transportation is a natural monopoly without economic regulation, and that deregulation of the dimensions proposed by the Government in Bill C-18 will create unnecessary chaos in the transportation industry leading to unacceptable reductions in safety standards and deterioration in quality, type, and frequency of service. Therefore, the undersigned petitioners humbly pray and call upon the House to have Bill C-18 withdrawn.
[DOT] (U10)


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106, I have the honour to present a petition certified by the Clerk of Petitions and signed by 76 residents of the villages of South Gillies, Nolalu, Kakabeka Falls, and Hymers in the rural area of Thunder Bay.
These residents are very concerned about the survival of their small rural post offices. They petition the House of Commons to reject any suggestion of closures and to protect by law or direct intervention the right of rural Canadians to full postal services.


Mr. Speaker, I rise, pursuant to Standing Order 106, to present a petition signed by people from Alberta and Manitoba. They petition the House not to proceed with changes to the prescription drug Act. The petitioners believe that the present legislation before the House would increase the cost of prescription drugs.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present a number of petitions from residents of my riding. The petitioners are from the communities of Thompson, Sherridon, Lynn Lake, Cross Lake, Flin Flon, Leaf Rapids, The Pas, Snow Lake, Norway House, Wanless, and Pik-witonei. The petitioners express real and deep concern that the Government's attempt to change the Patent Act will indeed force the cost of prescription drugs to rise and, of course, hurt those people who need to use large quantities of these drugs.


Mr. Speaker, once more I have the honour and duty to present petitions from the City of Windsor, protesting the Government's new Patent Act amendments which would increase the cost of drugs. It is with pleasure that I represent the people of that city, but it is not a pleasure that they have found cause to petition Parliament.
I submit one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight more petitions from the City of Windsor, representing hundreds of additional signatures to the thousands already submitted, and there are more.


That the first report of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts, presented to the House on Tuesday, November 4, 1986, be concurred in.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I rise in this debate to make the point that we in this Parliament need tax reform very badly and that we should be working toward that end.
Many years ago the New Democratic Party, which at that time was led by David Lewis, used a slogan during an election campaign that I think best identifies the issue before us in this particular motion. During that election campaign and at times before and after-and I think it is still a valid description of the situation-he talked about corporate welfare bums taking advantage of the system and using the money of Canadian taxpayers as much as possible. They used the system to obtain assistance from taxpayers when they did not really need it and there was no reason for them to receive it.
In his 1985 report the Auditor General made a very specific statement regarding the tax remission orders conferred on certain companies. He was referring to a particular tax remission order which was granted to the Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas Company which allowed it to take advantage of the tax system up to a possible $1 billion. When the Standing Committee on Public Accounts tabled the report, the level already given, I suppose under this remission order, was an amount up to $400 million.
I should like to refer to what the Auditor General said in his report on February 5, 1985. He said that an income tax remission order was granted to Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas Company Limited, enabling it to deduct for income tax purposes financing costs which its parent incurred in acquiring it. He went on to say that the order may provide the company with an after tax benefit of up to $1 billion and permitted the use of a method of transferring losses for tax purposes which, in May 1985, had only been proposed to Parliament.
The actual decision to do this was made by the previous Government. In July, 1984 the Government announced its
February 5, 1987

intention to provide Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas Company Limited, a subsidiary of Dome Petroleum Limited, with an order remitting income taxes pursuant to Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act. However, that remission was not granted until February 5, 1985, so both Governments were involved in the process.
Remission orders in themselves are used extensively and are needed. For instance, the operation of the Auto Pact depends extensively upon the ability of the Government to pass remission orders which, under the Auto Pact, allow the Government to repay companies that import automobile parts, after the cars have been built and have been sold in Canada or returned to the United States. The concern here is not the process of remission orders. The concern of the committee and the concern I am bringing forward now is that the Government, without the consent of Parliament, is spending up to $1 billion of taxpayers' money.
This process of tax expenditure without the consent of Parliament, the Auditor General suggests in the 1986 report, is becoming more prevalent on the part of the Government. The concern of the committee was that we should have in place the kind of law which would make it impossible for the Government to spend taxpayers' money without coming before Parliament. A basic democratic process is that Parliament passes all expenditures that are made by the Government, but it is far from correct here.
This expenditure about which we are talking, the remission for Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas Limited, is an example of the kind of thing that can go on and where some corrective measures should be taken. The 1985 Auditor General's report draws attention to this specifically in Chapter 3. We are concerned that not only does this remission order authorize money for that year but authorizes it until possibly 1990. The only limiting factor that will be offset by this remission order-this is why I suppose there could be some discussion as to the amount-is the amount of tax the company will have to pay during that period of time. It can offset all of its taxes until 1990, if the company has enough. Knowing the ability of our tax lawyers, the chances are that the company will project financing costs beyond that time or make sure that by other acquisitions the company will be able to use the absolute maximum possible.
The committee had a number of concerns, and I would like to put them before the House. First, Parliament's consent was not sought and Parliament was not involved in a substantial expenditure of public funds. That is not acceptable, I am sure, to anybody in this House. In this case a corporate loss transfer procedure was used, a procedure not otherwise allowed in law. It is currently before Parliament as a proposal from 1985 in a budget discussion paper only. Are we going to have a procedure such as: "We are going to do this and eventually we will allow it to happen and then implement it"? A remission order
Motions
is often used. But this type of arrangement has never been used before because it was illegal, although it has been suggested.
What we should be asking in Parliament is whether this use of the remission order is acceptable in the broad criteria that had been established to be as in the public interest. What we are looking at here is whether it is a good idea to allow, under any circumstances, expenditures of any amount. This one happens to be very large and it is probably an exceptional example. But is it a good idea to allow any expenditure of government funds without reference to Parliament?
The committee makes a number of recommendations some of which I will put before you, Mr. Speaker. The committee suggests that the Government make changes in the Financial Administration Act and as quickly as possible get rid of the process of tax expenditures which allow corporate structures to take advantage of tax breaks when they do not really require them and have no real right to them. Remission orders are generally used as a means of granting relief from some aspects of the tax system. As I said, we do not particularly worry about that fact but in this case the remission order was used as a means of implementing a policy that is not necessarily the policy of the Government. Large amounts of public money were involved, and the use of the remission order suggests that the bureaucracy was taking the law into its own hands and making the legal decisions without coming before Parliament.
The Auditor General goes on to say in his report that the Department of Finance advised him that if it had not done what it did, Dome would have been forced into bankruptcy and the federal Government would have suffered a substantial revenue loss. The Government was also concerned that the failure of Dome could have serious adverse effects on the Alberta economy. In the circumstances, the Department believed it could not accurately determine costs or prepare meaningful cost figures. Officials of the Department of Finance appeared before the committee, but in my eyes and in the eyes of the committee they were unable to justify any of these points. It appeared to me, and I think probably to other members of the committee, that the process was gone into in order to allow the takeover of Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas and to allow the putting in place of the remission order, which would end up being very beneficial to a corporation.
The remission order permitted Dome Petroleum Limited to make use of a method of allowing losses for tax purposes to be transferred within its ownership group. It had not been approved by Parliament. In May 1985, that had only been proposed as a part of a budget paper. Consequently, in the opinion of the committee, Parliament's consent should have been sought before the remission order was made.
The committee made a number of recommendations, and I would like to put some of those recommendations on the record. In his 1986 report, the Auditor General gave a lot of support to the recommendations that we made. In fact, he

February 5, 1987
Motions
made very similar recommendations in that report and has done so on other occasions as well.
We recommended that the Financial Administration Act be amended to require the following: the tabling in Parliament of all income tax remission orders and the preparation of an explanatory note to accompany each remission order so tabled outlining why the remission order is in the public interest. The key statement in the Financial Administration Act is that remission orders are given only in the public interest. However, if one looks at the public accounts of any particular year, one will find pages and pages of remission orders. I would expect that it would be very difficult to provide an indication of why each remission order was given, but when the remission orders are in the magnitude of even a portion of the one we are discussing today, they ought to be explained not only to Parliament but to the people of Canada.
If the Auditor General had not put his finger on this particular remission order and the fact that it had not been consented to by Parliament, it may have gone through and gotten only minor play across the nation. As it is, it is the reason we should move in a number of areas.
The committee suggested that a reference of all remission orders so tabled be made to the appropriate standing committee and that prior approval of Parliament be sought of all income tax remission orders exceeding S20 million in value, and this is probably a key recommendation. This would mean that major remission orders would have to be explained. Many members of the committee suggested that the bureaucracy justify every remission order. In the end, we agreed on the figure of $20 million as being a central figure which would ensure that the Government was in hand.
We made a number of other recommendations and I hope that other Hon. Members will put these before the House along with the reasons of the committee for making them so that Hon. Members may see why this particular report should be taken very seriously by the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson), the Cabinet and the Government. The issues brought up by this report should be dealt with by Parliament.


Questions or comments? Debate.


Madam Speaker, I appreciate having the opportunity to say a few words in connection with the motion of the Hon. Member for Prince Albert (Mr. Hovdebo) because I am a member of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts. The question of the Dome Petroleum and Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas remission order is a very troublesome one. It highlights a problem that dates back many years. One of my colleagues, a former member of the committee, has described this as being part of the Liberal legacy with which the present Government was left. The particular problem of the Dome Petroleum and Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas remission order is one that relates back to the days of the former Government, and the remission order concept itself certainly relates back to the former Government, though I
suppose it has been a part of the laws of Canada for a long time.
This report identifies a problem at which we should take a very close look in the very near future in an effort to ensure that this sort of problem does not and cannot happen again. In fact, the problem relates to Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act which provides that the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Treasury Board, whenever the Governor in Council considers it in the public interest, may remit any tax, fee or penalty. In effect, that means a cabinet decision can forgive a tax and simply eliminate it as if there were no laws on the books of the country indicating that that tax had to be paid. I felt so strongly about this after dealing with the matter on the Public Accounts Committee that I have placed a Notice of Motion on the Order Paper which I hope will be debated before too long.
My motion is that, in the opinion of this House, the Government should consider the advisability of repealing Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act and requiring that all remissions of taxes, fees or penalties be submitted to Parliament for approval each year. That motion goes a long way, and I am sure the Government and other Hon. Members will have some reservations about going quite that far in dealing with remission orders. As the Hon. Member for Prince Albert has pointed out, there is perhaps some logic in having remission orders in some cases.
The real effect of a remission order is to forgive a tax. Even though there is a tax law on the books, the executive of the country can wipe out that tax for you, Madam Speaker, or for me but not for our neighbour. That seems to me really to strike at the roots of democratic Government and democratic principles. Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act allows members of the executive of the Government to say: "There is a tax on the books that you have to pay but I do not have to pay". Because of Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act, they could wipe out their taxes personally just by passing an Order in Council. They might not do that for themselves, because they might feel that that would be a little embarrassing, but they might do it for a friend. I am not suggesting in any way that they would do this or that that has happened but I am saying that that is what Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act allows. It allows a highly discriminatory situation to exist where the Government could decide that one person has to pay a tax and no one else has to, or that one person is exempted from paying a tax and no one else is. I think we should take a very close look at this section of the Financial Administration Act with a view to either repealing it altogether or restricting very severely the way it can be used.
The Standing Committee on Public Accounts, when it considered the Dome remission order in particular, saw the problems I have just pointed out. That order certainly highlighted very dramatically this kind of difficulty. The order
February 5, 1987

had the effect over a 10-year period of allowing Hudson Bay Oil and Gas to deduct for income tax purposes the financing costs which Dome incurred in acquiring Hudson Bay. The value of that deduction, according to the Auditor General, was some $400 million, not a small sum, particularly if we were to apply it to the deficit.
The peculiarity of this situation is illustrated, it seems to me, by the fact that Dome Petroleum bought Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas but it did not have any income against which it could write off its financing costs. So what happened? Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas wrote off the financing costs incurred by Dome when it bought Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas. That something like this would be allowed just boggles the mind. Why was it allowed? Because Dome Petroleum was in such sad financial shape that there was concern that it and its suppliers might go down and all its employees might lose their jobs. It would be a tremendous blow to the Canadian economy, particularly that of western Canada. Therefore, the former Liberal Government entered into a commitment to allow this arrangement to take place, and the present Government proceeded with it because it did not feel it had the moral right to go back on the commitment. It was proceeded with but it cost the taxpayers some $400 million. That, as I said, is no small sum.
The impact of the remission order was, by an act of Cabinet, to change the tax laws of this country without an Act of Parliament. It gave great financial benefit to one company but other companies doing exactly the same thing did not receive that benefit. A preference was given to one taxpayer over others, and that brings our tax laws into disrepute, as if they need any more disrepute than they already have.
As my hon. friend for Prince Albert indicated, the Standing Committee on Public Accounts recommended a number of things that should be done to the Financial Administration Act. For example, there should be the tabling in Parliament of all tax remission orders with an explanatory note outlining why the order was in the public interest. It recommended approval by Parliament of all tax remission orders exceeding $20 million in value. That means that this particular tax remission order would have required parliamentary approval. My own motion, if the Government sees fit to adopt it and actually repeal or amend Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act, would require all such remission orders to be approved by Parliament. While there may be some piddling amounts involved in some remission orders, ones of this size are certainly significant. In my view even something involving $19 million should certainly be approved by Parliament, bearing in mind that it gives a preference to one taxpayer over another.
The other concern which the committee had with the Dome remission order was that a beneficiary of the order was not specified directly. In effect, the remission order did not limit the benefit to Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas because that company could sell off the benefit to someone else. It was an open-ended order and there was no way of limiting it to Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas. There are a lot of problems with this particular remission order, and a lot of problems with
Motions
remission orders in general, because they leave the door wide open for the Government to give special preference to one citizen or company and not to others.
Bearing in mind my concern that what we need here is not to just to deal with the Dome remission order, and bearing in mind my concern that even the recommendations of the committee in its first report are not sufficient because they do not go far enough, and bearing in mind that the Government is to respond within the next few days to that report, I move, seconded by the Hon. Member for Edmonton-Strathcona (Mr. Kilgour) that the motion put forward today be amended by deleting all of the words after the word "That" and substituting the following therefor:
-the first report of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts presented to the House on November 4, 1986, be not now concurred in but that it be recommitted to the committee for further consideration.


Resuming debate. Mr. Hovdebo: Any questions?


On a point of order. With respect, Madam Speaker, I believe the 10-minute question period should apply directly after and that would allow my friend to question or comment on the statements made by the Hon. Member who just completed his remarks.


The Chair agrees that that is the way to proceed.


Madam Speaker, I would like to ask a couple of questions in order to put a couple of things on the record. Is it the Member's understanding that if Hudson Bay Oil and Gas is sold within the next two or five years the remission order will be removed? What would the effect be if it were not?


Madam Speaker, I want to thank the Hon. Member for the question. My understanding of the remission order in this particular case is that there is no limitation on the remission of tax in the event of the sale of Hudson Bay Oil and Gas. If the company were sold to another company, that other company could take advantage of the remission order and receive the tax benefit. It is not limited specifically to the one company. That was one of the concerns expressed by the committee.
In fact, in paragraph 12 it was recommended that, where applicable, future remission orders include conditions specifying the ownership of the companies for whom the benefit is intended. If this recommendation is adopted by the Government, there would be no possibility of that type of thing taking place in the future.


Madam Speaker, when this matter was before the Public Accounts Committee the Member was concerned that all remission orders have explanatory notes.

February 5, 1987
Motions
That is a major undertaking. Why does the Member consider this to be important in this particular structure?


Madam Speaker, as the Hon. Member is aware, Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act talks about allowing the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Treasury Board, to remit the tax fee or penalty when the Governor in Council considers it to be in the public interest. The purpose of the recommendation for explanatory notes is for the Government to indicate why it thinks there is some public interest to be served in a particular case by making a remission order. If the Government only indicates that, in its view, it is in the public interest to forgive certain taxes, but we are not informed of how the Government came to that conclusion or the reasoning behind it, in fact, we have no reason to believe, other than taking the Government's word at face value, that it is in the public interest at all.
If the Government is not required to give an explanation or its rationale, it could very well forgive the income tax of the Hon. Member for Prince Albert while requiring me and everyone else to pay through the nose. The Government would only have to say that that is in the public interest. I am sure the Hon. Member may think that that is in the public interest, but the rest of us may differ in our opinions.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to speak in support of the motion moved by the Member for York East (Mr. Redway). I think it would be useful for the Public Accounts Committee, which has already considered this matter in some depth, to continue to do so. The report which was tabled on November 4, 1986, requested that the Government provide a comprehensive response in accordance with Standing Order 99(2). That response is due shortly and it will be very appropriate for the Public Accounts Committee to consider the matter further in light of the response.
This particular report dealt with remission orders in general, but particularly with the remission order granted to Dome. In July, 1984, when Parliament was not sitting, a press release was issued by the then Minister of Finance which indicated the Government's intention to provide a remission order to Dome to become effective December 32, 1984. The intent was to assist the company's efforts to achieve private sector financing. The debt rescheduling agreement which was ultimately entered into by Dome replaced a 1982 agreement which had contemplated a significant investment in Dome by the Government.
The Hon. Member for York East stated that the decision was made by the previous Government and that his Government merely gave effect to it. I do not particularly quarrel with that, but I point out that the remission order was made in February, 1985, and that the matter had not been raised in the House. I hope that in the future the Government will raise in the House matters which concern so much foregone revenue.
The remission order, which was granted under Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act, authorized Hudson Bay Oil and Gas to deduct, for income tax purposes, the financing costs
which Dome incurred in acquiring it. The value of the remission order is high. Officials quarreled before the Public Accounts Committee with the estimate arrived at by the Auditor General, but did not offer any other figures in rebuttal. However, it is clear that the cost to the citizens of Canada was high. The Public Accounts Committee was concerned that the consent of Parliament was not sought and Parliament was not involved in a substantial expenditure of public funds. A corporate loss transfer procedure was used which, as far as members of the Public Accounts Committee could see, was not allowed in law. In fact, it came before Parliament in May, 1985, three months after the remission order, and came before Parliament as a proposal in the budget discussion paper. Indeed, it was described in the budget discussion paper as a new concept which needed to be: "fully discussed before implementation". Yet it had been used in February, 1985.
The officials from the Department of Finance justified their decision by claiming that Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act allows a remission order to be made if it is in the public interest. The concerns expressed in the Public Accounts Committee were that when a large expenditure of this kind is being made the question of what is in the public interest should be discussed in Parliament and should not be defined by officials behind closed doors.
Another concern raised at the Public Accounts Committee was that according to the Financial Administration Act there is a requirement to publish in the Public Accounts of Canada details of remission orders and their costs. There are some 44 pages of remission orders in the Public Accounts of Canada, but a full page of them includes cases where there are no figures attached. The Public Accounts Committee considers that this is unsatisfactory and that, in future, officials, even if they are unable to give accurate costs, should explain why they are not providing the costs and perhaps give their best estimate and describe it as such.
While I do not wish to repeat the points made by the two Members who spoke earlier, I want to stress the concern of the Public Accounts Committee about the lack of clear information in this matter. The Auditor General's staff were initially told by the Department of Finance that no economic analysis or cost benefit analysis of this measure had been done.
When the matter was before committee, the Deputy Minister of Finance said that there was a cost benefit analysis but it was a cabinet document and could not be made available to either members of the Public Accounts Committee or the Auditor General. Subsequently, whatever they had was made available to the Auditor General for examination. However, it is an example of an ongoing difficulty in getting clear facts and figures from the Department of Finance.
I do not want to be unduly critical or apportion blame. I want to concentrate on the recommendations of the Public Accounts Committee which I believe are constructive and
February 5, 1987

valuable to any Government. First, we suggest that the Financial Administration Act be amended to require the tabling in Parliament of all income tax remission orders, with an explanatory note outlining why each remission order is in the public interest. We also propose that all remission orders so tabled be referred to the appropriate standing committees and that prior approval by Parliament be required in the case of all income tax remission orders exceeding $20 million in value.
We also recommend that the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) in future ensure that income tax remission orders do not deal with any matter currently before Parliament. This refers to what I said earlier, that the remission order in this case was passed in February, 1985 but there was a new proposal in May, 1985, as part of a budget paper to give effect to the method which had been used here.
Another concern was that the remission order in this case did not limit the benefit to the present owner of Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas. If Dome should decide to sell, it could lead to an unintended benefit to another taxpayer. We were concerned that there were no conditions involved. Therefore, the Public Accounts Committee recommends that, in future, remission orders include conditions specifying the ownership of the companies for which the benefit is intended.
Our final recommendation was that the Treasury Board develop guidelines for the reporting in the Public Accounts of the estimated amounts of remission orders where an exact figure is not available. We find it unacceptable and something that has potential for abuse when the officials do not meet the requirement of the Act to give a figure because they say they are unable to estimate the figure accurately.
We are looking forward to seeing the government response to this report which was tabled on November 4. The Government's comprehensive response is due shortly and I am looking forward to pursuing the matter at that point.


Madam Speaker, my question for the Hon. Member may be unfair because she may not have the actual figures. However, how much does the Government lose every year in terms of remission orders, particularly as they pertain to the Income Tax Act? I understand that there are remission orders dealing with the payment of customs and excise tax, but does she have any idea of the magnitude of public revenues lost because of remission orders affecting income tax?


Madam Speaker, the only information I have is what is in the Public Accounts of Canada, where a figure is given. I do not have that figure in front of me, but I believe that it added up to some $840 million.


Resuming debate.


Madam Speaker, I rise to support the effort by my colleague, the Member for Prince Albert (Mr. Hovdebo), to bring the report of the Public Accounts Committee before Parliament. It deserves attention
Motions
by Parliament because it deals with some very important matters. First, there is the loss of some $1 billion in public revenue. The Government has forgone the significant sum of $1 billion that should have been paid in taxes.
We are living in a time of restraint, in which the Government is making cut-backs. Various Departments have been told in the last number of years to cut back their expenditures, and we have seen a decrease in such services as research and development, and grants to universities and to the provinces in the area of medicare. There have been cut-backs in the Department of the Environment and restraints in job-creation programs, unemployment insurance programs and others. We have also seen some major tax increases imposed upon the Canadian taxpayer in the last number of years, all, of course, in the name of fighting the deficit. Yet despite all the efforts of this Government and the previous Liberal Government to cut expenditures and raise more revenues, they can with the stroke of the pen forgive a major company some $1 billion in taxes owed to the Government and to the people of Canada. It just amazes me how in some areas the Government is nickel and diming, yet in other areas it allows the throwing of some $1 billion out of the window.
We see the loss of $1 billion with this remission order concerning Dome. We saw the loss of some $1 billion in bailing out the banks, a decision made over a weekend. We saw the loss of some $600 million, $700 million again because of a tax decision which allowed the Reichmann's to buy Gulf Oil. There has been the loss of major sums of money. Yet these decisions are made almost at the snap of a finger.
The particular case we are discussing today, the loss of some $1 billion in revenues from Dome Petroleum, is the topic of the first report of the Standing Committee on Public Accounts. It goes into some detail and I wish to examine some aspects of its report and place some of its observations and recommendations on the public record. The report states:
In February 1985 a remission order pursuant to Section 17 of the Financial Administration Act was granted to Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas Limited, a subsidiary of Dome Petroleum Limited.
Over a 10-year period, Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas was authorized to deduct for income tax purposes the Financing costs that Dome incurred in acquiring it. The value of the remission order is considerable. To date, the Auditor General has estimated that $400 million has been expended.
The first part of the committee's report outlines the magnitude of this decision and the fact that so far it has cost some $400 million in lost revenue. The report continues:
Your committee has a number of concerns with respect to this remission order:
(a)	Parliament's consent was not sought and Parliament was not involved in
a substantial expenditure of public funds;
Perhaps, Madam Speaker, in this whole sorry state, this is one of the most serious observations made by the committee, and I repeat:
Parliament's consent was not sought and Parliament was not involved in a substantial expenditure of public funds;

February 5, 1987
Motions
This decision erodes the role of Parliament and our role as Members of Parliament. That role is to scrutinize the expenditures of public funds by the executive, by Cabinet. That was denied to us. Of course, if there had been an open and public discussion in the House, there would have been publicity. There would have been the reporting of such a debate in the newspapers and the media. The public would have known what was happening and I would tend to think that the public would not, on the whole, have approved of what the Government was doing. Public disclosure and public awareness of what was happening would have forced the Government to have gone a different route in terms of accomplishing its objective of attempting to save Dome Petroleum. The report continues:
(b)	A corporate loss transfer procedure was used, a procedure not otherwise allowed in law and currently before Parliament as a proposal in a budget discussion paper;
In other words, the committee was saying that what this remission order did was not legal. It was not allowed in law. It was only a proposal in a budget paper before Parliament. There was not even specific legislation which would have allowed that remission order to have occurred. Again, the committee points out that this remission order was outside the existing law and that there was no proper discussion by Parliament. The report observes:
(c)	there was an unconvential and unprecedented use of a remission order which was approved on the basis of the broad and general criterion of "being in the public interest";
As other speakers have pointed out, this general phrasing of "being in the public interest" is too broad. To allow and justify the loss of some $1 billion, just on the basis of the five words "being in the public interest" is just not good enough. The Government has to demonstrate in a much more precise and specific manner why it is in the public interest.
The Government, of course, failed to do this. The report continues:
(d)	there were less costly alternatives to the use of a remission order;
In other words, the committee was saying there was another way the Government could have solved this problem, a less costly way. Yet the Government ignored that option. Had the Government come to Parliament and had there been parliamentary discussion, the less costly alternative would have been also discussed. And, perhaps, in making it public, the less costly alternative would have been used. Perhaps there is some justification for this. Certainly, if Dome Petroleum was to go belly-up it would have a tremendous impact not just on the economy of Alberta and the hundreds of workers who work for Dome Petroleum, but on the many financial institutions which have lent money over the years to Dome Petroleum. However, if the public, through its Government, is going to take some of the risk, as surely we have done with this $1 billion in forgone taxes that Dome Petroleum owes to the Canadian public, if we are going to make that type of investment, surely the public has a right to be in on the action. If Dome Petroleum makes a profit in the years ahead, we can also have some of the benefit of the $1 billion investment we have in Dome Petroleum. If we are going to forgo revenues of nearly $1 billion, perhaps the
Government of Canada should have taken some equity in Dome Petroleum, so that when the oil industry turns around and Dome Petroleum starts to make money after a number of years, the public will benefit from the good times. If the public invests money in the bad times, surely it has the right to benefit from the good times.
The committee goes on to note:
(e)	analysis upon which the remission order was based was initially withheld from the Auditor General.
Why did the Government withhold this information? Why the tremendous amount of secrecy? Why were decisions made behind closed doors? There was no proper open parliamentary discussion. Information was withheld from the Auditor General. Why was there wheeling and dealing behind closed doors in the wee hours of the morning away from the glare of public concern and openness? Why was this deal cooked in such a tremendous amount of secrecy? What was the Government trying to hide?
In its final observation under this section the committee states:
(f)	the amount of the remission order was not reported in the Public Accounts as required by government directives pursuant to the Financial Administration Act.
This is another tidbit about the Government not following the proper procedures, the law itself. Again I repeat the question that I posed earlier, why the secrecy? Why not the open reporting that is required by law?
The committee makes some important and useful recommendations, and I quote:
Your Committee recommends that the Government give consideration to amending the Financial Administration Act to require the following:
(a)	the tabling in Parliament of all income tax remission orders;
In other words, that means open and full disclosure. I agree with this entirely. The next recommendation states:
(b)	the preparation of an explanatory note, to accompany each remission order so tabled, outlining why the remission order is in the public interest;
In other words, a greater amount of accountabiity is needed. If this is going to be done, explain why. That makes a lot of sense. It further states:
(c)	the reference of all remission orders so tabled to the appropriate Standing Committees;
In other words, a proper standing committee sees what the remission order is and it has an opportunity of debating it and asking questions about it.
It further proposes, and I quote:
(d)	the prior approval by Parliament of all income tax remission orders exceeding $20 million in value.
The committee is recommending that Parliament take back its traditional power over the purse, and that the Government be accountable to Parliament for such expenditures.
February 5, 1987

What the Government did is highly unusual in allowing Dome Petroleum to write off an estimated $1 billion on its taxes, and it is outside of the existing tax law. I wish to quote from the committee on this. What it states is very pertinent. It
says:
The Department informed your Committee that the use of a corporate loss transfer in the Dome case was not offensive to existing tax policy concepts. Your Committee disagrees. The Income Tax Act permits companies to incur interest obligations for buying the shares of other companies, and then through amalgamation or winding-up to make the two companies one and have the income of the acquired company offset against the interest expense of the acquiring company.
This is what is allowed in law. The committee further states, and I quote:
However, your Committee noted that Dome and Hudson's Bay Oil and Gas did not amalgamate. The remission order was therefore used to circumvent the Income Tax Act. Moreover, the remission order made use of a procedure outlined in a budget paper currently before Parliament. As the Auditor General noted, the budget paper referred to the corporate loss transfer system as "a new concept". This concept needed to be "fully discussed before implementation". The Dome tax remission therefore pre-empted Parliamentary consideration of an innovative and significant tax measure.
It is estimated that there are some $38 billion in unused business tax losses and tax credits, in other words, some $38 billion in tax deductions that the business community has not yet used. In essence, that amount of deductions can allow the businesses or the corporations not to pay taxes for the next three or four years. There are tremendously high unused tax losses on the books. If the business community decided to use all those tax losses, it would mean they would not pay one cent of tax for the next three or four years. Of course, the Government is extremely concerned about this.
I commend the Government for taking some steps in preventing the transfer of business losses, the buying and selling, and the wheeling and dealing of business losses to prevent a haemorrhaging of public revenues. What it has done here is the opposite. It has been made easier to use the business losses from one company to offset what another company should have paid.
Part of the frustration that Canadians felt with the Liberal Government, and which they are certainly now feeling with the Conservative Government, is the sloppy management and the loss of some billion dollars thrown out of the window. It is no wonder that Canadians are upset at this foolish business management of the Government which allows $1 billion to slip through its fingers. At the same time we have the deficit, and the cut-backs to human and social services.
In conclusion, I wish to talk briefly about tax reform. If the Government is serious about tax reform, it would not allow the type of remission orders that it allowed in the Dome case. Tax reform would mean fewer loopholes, lower rates, but a larger base. The remission order pertaining to Dome Petroleum is the opposite to tax reform. It is a hidden tax measure. There is no accountability by that company to the Government. The $1 billion in tax losses that this remission order allows to be written off can be bought and sold. It is not only directed to helping Dome. It will help Dome today, but Dome can wheel
Motions
and deal, and other people and companies can benefit from that. There is no accountability. What a manner in which to run a Government! What a manner in which to look after the public interest! It is a shame, and surely it is a crime.
I congratulate my colleague, the Hon. Member for Prince Albert, in moving his motion today in order that there be this type of debate in Parliament.


I wish to ask a general question. This tax remission can only be defined on a general basis as a tax expenditure, because it is tax that the Government will not receive. Over the years this has become a major method of under the table financing for many projects of many corporations and many economic regional development projects. In some cases they are very good, but I should like to use as an example another kind of tax expenditure-it is not the same as a remission but it is a tax expenditure-the scientific tax research program.
One of my concerns-and it is shared by many people around the country-is that if one is given a grant to do something, one must account for how the money is spent, but if one does it through the income tax system, the Income Tax Act does not allow for looking into how the money was spent. Consequently, a company receiving a direct grant and one receiving an equal amount through the tax system are treated differently. I should like the Hon. Member to comment on that real problem as far as the grant and tax expenditure structures are concerned.


Madam Speaker, it was that very point which I was raising toward the end of my remarks when I talked about tax reform. The Auditor General has estimated that there are billions of dollars in what are called tax expenditures. I believe the amount is something like $45 billion to $53 billion. These items do not appear on the books. They are special tax incentives, loopholes, and deductions which are used by individuals and, to a very large extent, by corporations.
For example, if the Government wishes to see some regional development in Cape Breton, it offers special deals or special tax breaks to those people locating industries there. A few years ago, as another example, the Government decided that we needed more rental property and introduced MURBs. Individuals putting money into the building of rental properties were able to take advantage of certain tax deductions.
The money which is lost or which the Government does not c