On Friday last, just before the House adjourned, the Hon. Deputy Prime Minister (Mr. Mazankow-ski) renewed notice of his intention to move a motion under Standing Order 57 in relation to Government Business No. 5.
If the closure motion is moved and adopted later this day, the result will be that at one o'clock Tuesday morning all debate on the motion for the reinstatement of capital punishment will end and the House will divide on the motion and any amendments thereto.
On Friday, June 19, the day after the Deputy Prime Minister first gave notice of closure, the Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan) rose on a question of privilege, arguing that the Deputy Prime Minister was making illegitimate use of the rules of the House. The Hon. Member for York Centre, in his argument, referred to a ruling by the Chair on April 14, 1987, and asked the Chair to apply the same logic used then to the present situation.
When the Chair ruled on April 14, the House was at a standstill. Routine Proceedings were, for several days, totally taken up by dilatory tactics that were a matter of grave concern to me. I refer Hon. Members to page 5120 of Hansard, where I reported my dilemma as follows:
The House is nevertheless facing an impasse which it has been unable to resolve for itself. There comes a time when the Chair has to face its responsibilities. When circumstances change and the Rules of Procedure provide no solution, the Chair must fall back on its discretion in the interests of the House and all its Members.
Further, on page 5121 of Hansard, I said the following:
I repeat my conviction that the entire question of the use of dilatory motions during Routine Proceedings needs to be examined and that no procedures should be sanctioned which permit the House to be brought to a total standstill for an indefinite period. Division bells are no substitute for debate.
If Hon. Members have taken from my ruling of April 14 that the Chair would, in the future, exercise discretion on any or all of the rules of the House, they have misunderstood the
letter and the spirit of the ruling. The discretion I exercised on that day was in the context of an absolute lack of any guidance in the Standing Orders-I repeat, in the context of an absolute lack of any guidance from the Standing Orders-or in the precedents, or practices, or conventions of this House. Nor was there any direction from the House itself, at that moment.
The Hon. Member for York Centre and the Hon. Member for Burnaby (Mr. Robinson) were skilled advocates in the arguments they presented on June 19 last. The Chair appreciates that it may be very difficult for Hon. Members on both sides of the capital punishment debate to focus only on the Speaker's role at this time. It is essential, I might add, that the Chair refrain from showing sympathy with one side or the other on such an important national debate. What the Chair must now address is, quite simply, the terms of Standing Order 57, which have been unchanged since 1913.
Notice of closure has been given 23 times since 1913; it has been moved and adopted 19 times. It is not a new Standing Order, even if only infrequently used. This present situation is not without precedent. Closure has been used by all Parties while in Government; it has been used after much, and after very little debate. It remains to this day a procedural avenue available to the Government. By and large, the timing of its use becomes a political issue, but some debate clearly must have taken place. Thus, the timing of closure in debate is clearly not a procedural matter.
[Translation\
The Hon. Member for York Centre (Mr. Kaplan) referred to the British practice which is quite different. The application of closure in Westminster cuts off any further debate. The British rule is very severe, and that is why their Standing Orders authorize the Speaker to refuse the motion if he finds it abuses the rules.

The British practice, which has been referred to, is quite different. When closure is applied in Great Britain no further debate can take place. In our Commons, debate continues after the adoption of the closure motion until 1 a.m. on that sitting day. The British rule is more severe, and thus their Speaker is given by a specific Standing Order the discretion to refuse the motion. The Canadian Commons has not given its presiding officer such discretionary power.
I have reviewed all of the arguments put forward by the Hon. Member for York Centre, the Hon. Member for Windsor West (Mr. Gray), the Hon. Member for Kamloops-Shuswap (Mr. Riis), the Hon. Member for Humber-Port au Port-St.

June 29, 1987
Interparliamentary Delegation Report
Barbe (Mr. Tobin), and the Hon. Member for Burnaby. Politically speaking, I can understand their concern; procedurally speaking, as your presiding officer, as were many Speakers before me, I am without authority to intervene when a Standing Order is used according to our rules and practices.
The House has adopted Standing Order 57. The House must accept its consequences, if it is invoked. The Hon. Deputy Prime Minister, having given notice at a previous sitting, has so far complied with the terms of Standing Order 57. If he chooses to move the appropriate motion later today, I shall have no choice but to put the question to the House.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 101, 1 have the honour to present to the House the Eighteenth Report, in both official languages, of the Canadian NATO Parliamentary Association.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have the honour to present, in both official languages, the tenth report of the Standing Committee on Finance and Economic Affairs in relation to the smuggling and tax evasion of those bringing motor fuel into Canada.
The committee makes a number of recommendations, principally directing the Department of National Revenue to reinstate the licences of independent dealers in petroleum products who have successfully passed a history of audit, and introduce a new system whereby new entrants into the field will obtain a licence by filing a letter of credit to ensure that they can and will pay tax due.
The committee calls upon the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs (Mr. Andre) to investigate the pricing of motor fuels since the recent Budget, to determine what anticompetitive behaviour there has been, if any, by the major refiners in the country.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present the third report of the standing committee on agriculture to which, pursuant to Standing Order 99(2), the committee requests a comprehensive response.
This report is a study on the tobacco-growing industry, Mr. Speaker, and of the communities affected by the decline in that industry. This industry is in decline, and the decline is damaging farm families and the communities, and some of the decline is caused by government policy on smoking and by taxation.
This report makes recommendations that could ease the transition that is occurring and, in doing so, could benefit all depressed communities in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the fourth report of the Standing Committee on Justice and Solicitor General, on the subject matter of Private Member's Bill C-234, the Missing Children Search Act, to which the committee requests that the Government respond prior to September 1, 1987.
The committee recommends that the Criminal Code be amended to ensure that searches for missing children are properly and expeditiously carried out and to make it an offence to fail to report a missing child or to fail to assist in the search for a missing child.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the fourth report of the Standing Committee on Agriculture dealing with farm input costs. Pursuant to Standing Order 99(2) the committee requests that the Government table a comprehensive response within 150 days.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have the honour to present the first report of the Standing Committee on Multiculturalism, in both official languages.
In this report, Mr. Speaker, your committee wishes to point out that many Canadians still face discrimination and that the human and economic resources inherent in the linguistic and cultural diversity of Canada have not been utilized to realize the full potential of Canada's multicultural, multiracial society. There is an overwhelming need to move ahead now with specific measures to integrate multiculturalism into all aspects of Canadian social, political and economic life.
June 29, 1987

The Standing Committee on Multiculturalism therefore puts forward major recommendations to accomplish this and asks the Government and all Hon. Members to give these recommendations their serious consideration.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


that Bill S-5 (from the Senate), an Act to amend and consolidate the laws prohibiting marriage between related persons, be read the first time.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present a Bill that will amend and consolidate the laws prohibiting marriage between related persons. It is straightforward and will clear up any confusion that may exist with respect to prohibited classes of individuals entering marriage. This matter has received full consideration and has been passed by the other place. I hope that it receives speedy passage in the House.
Motion agreed to and Bill read the first time.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to present a petition to the House signed by some 45 people in the Windsor area. It calls on the federal Government to amend the Criminal Code to make it possible for provincial Governments to more easily deal with the problem of the proliferation of strip clubs, a problem concerning many in the Windsor area.
This petition, while signed by some 45 people, represents petitions signed by some 20,000 people in the Windsor area calling for the kind of action spelled out in the petition. In this regard, there will also be petitions presented by my colleagues from the Windsor area.


Mr. Speaker, I too have a petition to present which calls on the Government to make changes to the Criminal Code which will delegate to provincial Governments the capacity through their liquor licensing laws to regulate and to control strip clubs in the City of Windsor and, of course, elsewhere in the Province of Ontario.
This subject has been of great concern to the citizens of Windsor for many months. I am very pleased to present this petition from approximately 50 Windsor residents, which
Petitions
petition represents a much greater number of people who have also signed petitions in this city.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join with my colleagues from Windsor in tabling a petition signed by some 50 people from the Windsor area representing some 20,000 people who have signed similar petitions. They are concerned about the proliferation of adult entertainment parlours in that city, particularly with respect to the apparent involvement of criminal elements in this activity. They seek the enactment of legislation which would allow the province to pass laws regulating and governing the manner of dress or degree of nudity of persons employed by or in establishments providing adult entertainment.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have the honour to present a petition in which the petitioners express their opinion that the new system of taxation of northern benefits hurts people, especially in the communities of Thompson and Wabowden, that the taxing of northern benefits is heavy-handed and complicated, taking away benefits intended to compensate employees for loss of amenities.
The undersigned call upon the House of Commons to direct the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) to reconsider this system of taxing northern benefits as part of tax reform. This petition is signed by people from Thompson, Wabowden, Lynn Lake, Leaf Rapids, Flin Flon and The Pas, Manitoba.


Mr. Speaker, it my honour and pleasure to present a petition from more than 400 Canadians from places such as Toronto, Whitehorse, Vancouver and other parts of British Columbia, Alberta, Winnipeg, Windsor, Smith's Falls, Perth, London, Ontario, Kelowna, Halifax and Ottawa.
The petitioners are very concerned for the many people who are driven by persecution to seek safety in Canada and for the breakdown of the previous system of refugee determination.
They support the proposal put forward by the Standing Committee on Labour, Employment and Immigration a year and a half ago, which had all-Party support and was also endorsed by the Canadian Council of Churches, many members of the Bar Association, the Canadian Jewish Congress, and others.
They urge that Parliament enact legislation which will embody the principles of fair and quick oral hearings for refugee claimants before a refugee board independent of the Immigration Commission, universal access to such hearings for

June 29, 1987
Petitions
every claimant in Canada, and adequate opportunity to arrive in Canada to make this claim.
I also have a petition signed by more than 600 Canadians from all over the country-Toronto, Ottawa, Vancouver, other parts of British Columbia, Newfoundland, and Alberta. They point out that the Government's proposed legislation, Bill C-55, fails to meet the demands of the public and the recommendations of the Standing Committee on Labour, Employment and Immigration.
Therefore they urge Parliament to ensure that Bill C-55 will be withdrawn and to substitute therefor legislation embodying the principles of fair and quick oral hearings of claims of refugee claimants before a refugee board independent of the Immigration Commission, universal access to such hearings for every applicant in Canada, and the right of appeal on the basis of fact.


Mr. Speaker, once again, it is my duty to table some twelve petitions signed by people from my riding who wish the House would be kind enough to help La Maison d'Amitie, a francophone non-profit organization which looks after women and children in distress.
Mr. Speaker, those people are presenting a petition in which they humbly state that according to a report made public by the Canadian Advisory Council on the Status of Women, one woman out of eight is subjected to psychological, economic, sexual or verbal violence by her spouse; that at a time when the Government should act instead of cracking down, the National Capital Commission intends to raise the rent for La Maison d Amitie, the only non-profit francophone organization for women and children in distress, by more than 3,000 per cent; that the Prime Minister himself stated recently in the House that the problem of battered women is one of the most serious social and legal challenges facing us today; therefore, the petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to urge the National Capital Commission to reverse its decision to raise the rent and to continue, as in the past, charging the symbolic sum of one dollar.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to table today a petition signed by northerners who are concerned that the new system of tax deductions for northern residents has been unfairly applied, that the taxing of northern benefits is heavy-handed and complicated, and that it taxes away benefits intended to compensate northerners.


Mr. Speaker, I have upwards to 100 petitions which I would like to
table today, signed by residents from Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland, Quebec, Ontario, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Alberta, British Columbia, and the Northwest Territories.
The proposed changes to the Patent Act will directly affect all Canadians who are not protected by private or government medical programs.
Whereas the federal Government's proposals will raise the already high cost of provincial health care programs; whereas the monopoly granted to innovative pharmaceutical companies will prevent competition from generic companies, will result in an increase of drug costs and prices, and will severely restrict the ability of average Canadians to buy necessary prescription drugs; and whereas the proposed changes to the Patent Act are another example of the Canadian Government's concession in the free trade negotiations with the United States at the expense of every day Canadians, the petitioners call upon the Government of Canada to reject these proposals with regard to the amendments to the Patent Act which will inevitably increase prescription drug prices for all Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to present a petition on behalf of a number of northern Canadians, pursuant to Standing Order 106, who are of the opinion that the new system of tax deductions for northern Canadian residents have been applied in an unfair way and leave out many communities which ought to be included in terms of being able to take advantage of special northern deductions.
They believe that the northern benefits system is heavyhanded and complicated and taxes away existing benefits which were in fact intended to compensate employees working in northern Canada because of the loss of amenities they experience.
They ask the House of Commons to direct the Minister of Finance (Mr. Wilson) to reconsider the system of tax measures when the tax reform study takes place, since he promised to do so in the 1987 Budget.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present on behalf of citizens of Ontario and Canadians from across the country 1,425 signatures calling upon Parliament to pass a motion favouring the return of capital punishment in Canada.
These signatures, which now total 29,904, represent the strong will of Canadian people on this important issue.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition signed by 1,043 Canadians from across the country, urging Members of the House to
June 29, 1987

support the motion before it calling for the restoration of capital punishment.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present on behalf of citizens from across Canada 1,014 signatures calling upon Parliament to pass a motion favouring the return of capital punishment in Canada.
The signatures, which now total 31,961, represent the strong will of Canadian people on this important issue.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present petitions on behalf of citizens of British Columbia and other Canadians from across the country including 1,000 signatures. They call upon Parliament to pass a motion favouring the return of capital punishment in Canada.
These signatures, which now total 32,961, represent the strong views of the Canadians who signed these petitions on this important issue.


Mr. Speaker, 1 am pleased to present on behalf of citizens of Nova Scotia, British Columbia, Ontario, and Alberta-Canadians from across Canada-1,255 signatures calling upon Parliament to pass the motion favouring the return of capital punishment.
These signatures, which now total 34,216, represent the strong will of the Canadian people on this important issue.


Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to present, pursuant to Standing Order 106, a petition signed by 3,493 people from my riding and elsewhere in Alberta, asking Parliament to vote at one o'clock tomorrow morning in favour of capital punishment.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present to the House of Commons the final number of petitions which have been received by various Members of Parliament, bringing the total, despite temporary disruptions in the postal service, to 39,256 persons from across Canada. They urge Parliament to support the reinstatement of capital punishment at the appropriate time during our vote at one o'clock tomorrow morning.
These signatures were collected by the Canadian National Police Association, the Ontario Provincial Police Associations, the Victims of Crime, Citizens Responding to You, and Citizens United for Safety and Justice.
They urge Parliament to vote in support of a return to capital punishment in Canada for certain acts of planned, deliberate murder, and the killing of police officers and prison guards.
Message from the Senate QUESTIONS ON THE ORDER PAPER


Mr. Speaker, I would ask that all questions be allowed to stand.


Shall all questions be allowed to stand?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order in response to what the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary has just said. May I just point out that I have had a question on the Order Paper since February 20. It really seems a long time, and I wonder if the Parliamentary Secretary might have an answer tomorrow, if not today.


Mr. Speaker, with respect, I believe, to Question No. 85, we have made inquiries and I was promised last week that we would have an answer before the end of the session. I will reiterate that request and see if I can get it.


It is my duty pursuant to the provisions of the Representation Act, 1985, to lay upon the Table a certified copy of a supplementary report of the Electoral Boundaries Commission of the 1987 report for the Province of Saskatchewan.


I have the honour to inform the House that a message has been received from the Senate informing this House that the Senate has passed Bill C-259, to extend the term of a patent relating to a certain food additive, with an amendment to which the concurrence of this House is desired.

June 29, 1987
Capital Punishment


Mr. Speaker, I move, seconded by the Hon. Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Wise):
That the debate on the motion in the name of the Deputy Prime Minister and President of the Privy Council (Government Business No. 5) respecting capital punishment and any amendments thereto, shall not be further adjourned.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour will please say yea.


Yea.


All those against will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the yeas have it.
And more that five Members having risen:


Call in the members.


I declare the motion carried.


Mr. Speaker, although I regret the closure procedure, I think, as you said this morning, it is quite within our rules. I wonder if the Government and other Members of the House would give unanimous consent to sit through lunch hour to allow some of our Members who have not spoken a chance to speak, perhaps, in that additional hour?


The House has heard the suggestion. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, I want the record to show very clearly that even with the hour that will be given to us by sitting through lunch hour, we still would not have the opportunity to hear all those who want to be heard on this subject because of the closure motion which was just adopted.
June 29, 1987


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my Party, I want to say as well that because of the fact that 82 Members of Parliament have yet to have an opportunity to speak on this issue, we certainly would like to at least take advantage of the one hour extension.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on the same point of order raised by the spokesman for the Official Opposition. I would like to point out that opportunity was given to his Party when it turned down the opportunity to sit all weekend and speak.


Mr. Speaker, I am not clear whether consent was given to sit during the lunch hour or not.


The Chair took it that there was consent. There were some points of order following in order for Members to make their positions clear, but I took it as consent.


The House resumed from Thursday, June 25, consideration of the motion of Mr. Mazankowski:
That this House supports, in principle, the reinstatement of capital punishment and directs that a special committee on reinstatement, composed of 15 members, be established, hold hearings and make its final report to the House no later than three (3) months following the adoption of this motion, such report to provide recommendations on:
(a)	which offence or offences should carry the death penalty, and in what
circumstances;
(b)	which method or methods should be used to carry out the penalty of
death, and in what circumstances;
That, pursuant to Standing Order 107(1), this special committee be hereby appointed as a committee to prepare and bring in a bill no later than three months following the adoption of this motion, founded on the committee's recommendations on (a) and (b) above; such a bill shall be the object of a separate and distinct report of the special committee, and such a report shall be its final report;
That such bill, when reported from such special committee to the House, be deemed pursuant to Standing Order 107(1) to have been introduced and stand on the Order Paper, in the name of the special committee chairman, for first reading at the next sitting of the House; and that subsequent House stages of the bill be considered under "Government Orders", with the bill standing under the heading "Government Business"; and that, when the said bill has been read a second time, it shall stand referred to a Legislative Committee;
That the Striking Committee be empowered to name the Members of the special committee, provided that once the Striking Committee report is laid upon the Table, it shall be deemed concurred in;
That the special committee have the power to sit while the House is sitting and during periods when the House stands adjourned;
That the special committee be empowered to report from time to time and send for persons and papers, and to print such papers and evidence from time to time as may be ordered by the committee and to retain the services of expert, technical, professional and clerical staff;
Capital Punishment
That the special committee be empowered to adjourn from place to place inside Canada and that, when deemed necessary, the appropriate staff accompany the committee;
That a quorum of the special committee be eight (8) members for any vote, resolution or other decision; and that the chairman be authorized to hold meetings to receive evidence and authorize the printing thereof whenever six (6) members are present;
That any substitution of membership on the special committee be made pursuant to Standing Order 94(4); and
That, notwithstanding the usual practices of this House, if the House is not sitting when the special committee is ready to issue its final report and the said bill, the special committee shall present its report and the bill to the House by filing them with the Clerk of the House provided that the report shall then be deemed to have been laid upon the Table, and the bill shall then be deemed, pursuant to Standing Order 107(1), to have been introduced at the first sitting of the House thereafter and to stand on the Order Paper in the name of the special committee chairman, for first reading at the next sitting of the House; and that subsequent House stages of the bill be considered under "Government Orders", with the bill standing under the heading "Government Business".
And on the amendment of Mr. Nystrom (p. 7307)
Mr. Speaker, the question of capital punishment has been a very difficult one for me these past few weeks. I am, as you can see, Sir, speaking near the end of the debate. 1 followed very closely the comments made on both sides of the subject before making up my mind.
As you know, Sir, this is the first of two possible questions which will be put before Parliament. The first is whether this House will support capital punishment in principle. If the resolution is passed, the second question would ask Parliament to consider specific amendments to the Criminal Code. Both are intended to be free votes, that is, those votes on which a Member can follow his own conscience. With that I agree.
During the election campaign of 1984 I indicated to the voters of Niagara Falls that the Progressive Conservative Party was committed to a free vote in the House of Commons on this subject. 1 thought it was a good idea then and I still do. At the time I indicated to the voters of Niagara Falls that I would vote in favour of capital punishment. It was not an easy decision to make then and it certainly has become more difficult as we approach the time of vote.
I would like to say a few words about the preliminary issues concerning this topic. Something which has been discussed many times in Parliament and in the media is the responsibility of the Member of Parliament on difficult subjects such as this. There are those who say that a Member of Parliament should in most cases reflect the views of his constituents. On the other side, many would argue that a Member of Parliament should always follow his own conscience even if his views differ from those of his constituents.
1 do not believe that the role of a Member of Parliament is as clear cut as those two options would seem to indicate. I think every Member of Parliament has a duty to do whatever he can to seek out the opinions of his constituents so that he can be as fully informed on a particular subject as possible.

June 29, 1987
Capital Punishment
I have received many letters on both sides of the issue of capital punishment. I have read them all and have tried to give them all due consideration. They have been very helpful. Most public opinion polls tell us that capital punishment is supported by a majority of Canadians. I would guess that while there is still a majority, it is not as overwhelming as it was a year or so ago.
Why do I say that? Because for me and all other individuals who think carefully on this, it is very difficult subject and certainly one which tears people apart. But at the same time, it is a question society must decide. I have an obligation to inform myself as to the thoughts and opinions of my constituents. 1 must weigh them carefully, but I believe that in the end I must act in a way responsible to myself and in the best interest of the people 1 represent.
I would like to say a few words about the conduct of this debate. I said earlier that questions such as this tear people apart. That is most unfortunate. I have noted in some of the speeches on this subject an excess of rhetoric on both sides. One of the most unfortunate facets of the debate is the imputation of wrong or bad motives by one side to the other. For instance, I disagree with those retentionists who characterize abolitionists as "bleeding hearts" who would wreck the criminal justice system and let killers out on the street. That has not been helpful. On the other hand, I disagree with those abolitionists who question the sincerity of those who would support the motion. It is wrong to suggest that their decision is based on a whim or that they are just simply rubber-stamping the uninformed views of their constituents. I am sure that most Members like myself have spent many hours thinking about this subject with a view to doing what is best for our country.
For those who support the motion and for those who oppose it, the subject of deterrence is always raised. I have heard and read a plethora of statistics, all attempting to either prove or disprove on the basis of statistics that capital punishment does or does not deter individuals from murdering other individuals.
1 reject that kind of analysis. I would guess that the statistical base in Canada is too small and our history too short to prove anything one way or the other.
In addition, trying to compare American States which have capital punishment with those which do not, is like comparing apples and oranges. There are just too many factors to make the analysis simple or reliable. To prove complex human behaviour on the basis of such statistics is chancy and something I will not even attempt. At the same time, it has been widely suggested that sanctions, penalties or punishment itself is a deterrent to certain behaviour. Whether the gravity of the punishment is a deterrent is another question. I would guess that the kind of individual who is prepared to murder another individual is not going to be deterred by the threat of capital punishment, but there may be exceptions.
One of my colleagues pointed out that in the Emanuel Jacques murder in Toronto, the case of a 12 year old boy being
systematically abused and then murdered by several individuals, one of the killers indicated that if he thought he might himself be executed he would not have carried out the gruesome act. God only knows if that is true. Therefore, I must look at other arguments put forward as to why capital punishment should be returned.
One argument that I think has been made effectively is that capital punishment is necessary to restore public respect for the criminal justice system. I am sympathetic with those who believe that respect for the criminal justice system in Canada is declining. I think, as well, that the consequences of that can be devastating if people come to the conclusion that penalties for breaking the law bear no relation to the crime.
Respect for our court system is what separates us from those countries where law and order has broken down completely. The rise in vigilantism on this continent is an alarming trend. The growing belief that the criminal justice system does not protect individuals is perhaps the most serious question we face in the criminal justice field. When people decide that they will take the law into their own hands, we are heading for chaos. We must do what we can to restore respect for our system of justice and to convince people that it works on their behalf as well as on behalf of the accused.
I believe for a majority of Canadians having the option of capital punishment would help to restore their faith in the criminal justice system. But that alone would not be enough to convince me of the need for capital punishment. I argue that the protection of the public from individuals who consistently demonstrate a disregard for the life of others is the only reason upon which this issue should be decided. I will give you certain examples, Madam Speaker.
It has been said in the Elouse of Commons and elsewhere that there are 14 individuals who once having been convicted of one murder have committed another while still in prison or after their release. For those individuals who commit multiple murders capital punishment should be an option. Certainly, on balance, we owe more to prospective victims than we do to those who refuse to live by society's laws.
I am reminded of the contract killer, the individual who was described in a recent trial in St. Catharines as being ready and willing to kill anyone for the sum of $10,000. I ask the House this. How do we adequately protect ourselves against that kind of individual? It is too easy to say that rehabilitation is the answer when a person has consistently acted in a way that shows he is not prepared to live within society's laws and will continue to endanger innocent victims.
In the cases I have described we would have removed doubt as to the possibility of executing an innocent individual through the multi-layered process by which the courts review each case before sending the matter to the Cabinet and the Prime Minister for possible commutation. There is no doubt in my mind that on the narrow ground which I have described
June 29, 1987

only a guilty person would be the recipient of the ultimate penalty.
Finally, there are those who say that the state has no right to take the life of another individual. I suggest that the state has always had the right to involve us in questions of this type. Surely, when the decision was made for Canada to go to war there was always the question of life and death. On the subject of abortion, Parliament has decided that a foetus or an unborn child can be aborted. That, too, is a question of life and death.
This has been a long and difficult debate for all Members of Parliament. My decision, and I know the decision of others in this Chamber, is bound to disappoint those who take an opposite view. That is one of the realities of public life. In the end, I have to make the decision. I do so on the narrow ground upon which I have indicated. If the motion is carried, I will have to assess the committee's recommendation and again decide whether it meets those criteria upon which I base this decision.


Madam
Speaker, I must say that I rise on this very important day with little enthusiasm, recognizing that as I speak less than 19 per cent of the Members of the House of Commons have had an opportunity to speak on this issue and, at the end of closure today, the overwhelming majority of the House of Commons will not have had the opportunity to put on the record an explanation for the way they will vote on this critical issue of capital punishment.
I am less enthusiastic as well because, if this particular motion passes, the very grisly task of the committee will be to tour the country to determine the appropriate way to kill certain criminals. Once that is completed by the end of the summer we will then spend weeks and perhaps months debating the Bill that will flow out of that committee at a cost of millions and millions of dollars.
Quite frankly, I simply do not consider this to be the nation's priority. We should be spending the time of the House of Commons, our energy, our talents and our expertise- indeed, the finances of the House of Commons-on questions dealing with the unemployed, the resource industry, small business problems, problems facing the farm community, issues concerning young people, how to improve our hospitals and schools and the like. But, no, this is a priority that the Government has identified. I, quite frankly, feel it is a misplaced priority.
One thing that concerns me greatly is that Canada is recognized as a peaceful, law-abiding and non-aggressive nation. When we consider that hundreds of thousands of people attempt to enter Canada every year they do so because of the reputation that Canada has. Canada is seen throughout the world as a leader in the field of progressive rights and freedoms. By reinstating the death penalty Canada would, I believe, be taking a backward step and would be abrogating its international commitments to these standards.
Capital Punishment
Canada is a party to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Canada has incorporated the same values into its Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Section 12 of the Charter states that everyone has the right not to be subjected to any cruel and unusual treatment or punishment.
Canada also participates in the international community through the United Nations. The General Assembly reaffirmed on December 8, 1977, Resolution 3262 which states that the main objective to be pursued in the field of capital punishment is that of progressively restricting the number of offences for which the death penalty may be imposed with a view to the desirability of abolishing this form of punishment.
I do not have to remind you, Madam Speaker, since I know you are aware that Canada is also a party to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Article 6 of that Covenant states that every human being has the inherent right to life, that this right shall be protected by law, and no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life. Nothing in this Article shall be invoked to delay or prevent the abolition of capital punishment by any state party to the present Covenant".
For many years we have all recognized that people are known by the friends they keep. The fact is that in 1976 Canada abolished the death penalty. In doing so we joined with many very progressive nations around the world, largely western nations, among them Australia, Austria, Denmark, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the Holy See, Ireland, Iceland, Italy, Israel, Luxembourg, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and many others.
If we were to vote for the reinstatement of capital punishment we would be joining only two other western nations that consider it; one is Turkey and the other being a number of states in the United States-not the entire country but a number of states. We would be joining other, if you like, communist countries, military dictatorships, tinpot dictatorships, countries such as Iran and Iraq, South Africa, the Soviet Union, Chile, Libya, and Cambodia.
Quite frankly, I think the question that Canadians must ask is this. Which set of countries do we wish to be associated with, those progressive western nations or those, as I say, which are a variety of communist and military dictatorships, with the exception of Turkey and some of the states of the U.S.? I feel that the answer to that is obvious.
I want to say that the issue of capital punishment first came into my life as a discussion way back in 1953 when the Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Commons was established to study the whole matter of capital punishment. I was only 11 years old at the time, but I remember discussing with my father this issue and seeking his views and guidance and direction on this very critical and important moral issue facing the country at that time, as it faces us today.
At the time it was just after Easter. He drew this to my attention. He explained that we had just again recognized

June 29, 1987
Capital Punishment
through our church service the fact that Jesus had been hung on the cross, the ultimate form of capital punishment, in terms of promoting suffering and pain. For days and days people hung on crosses until they expired. Jesus was also tortured while he was hanging on the cross. My father said to me at that time, "Son, what was the response of Jesus to those who were doing this to him? Father, forgive them for they know not what they do". To this day that has stuck with me. Over the years it has assisted me in maintaining my position on capital punishment, which has always been as an abolitionist.
It is not as though my constituents are surprised, because in 1980, and again in 1984, during the federal election campaigns, my position on capital punishment was made clear. It has been made clear at every public meeting at which it has been raised. Every letter, every telegram, every postcard, every phone call I have received on the subject have had an immediate response, with my position on capital punishment stated very clearly.
Given all of that, I do not believe that the electorate in my constituency are surprised that once again, after examining the pros and cons on the issue, the arguments made on the issue, I maintain my position as an abolitionist on this very critical issue.
The remark made by Edmund Burke more than two centuries ago holds true today; "Your representative owes you, not his industry only but his judgment, and he betrays instead of serving you if he sacrifices it to your opinion".
I realize that many Members of Parliament have decided to hold polls on this issue, either straw polls or commissioned polls conducted by various polling companies. In that way they gain an appreciation of the various views of their constituents, and in many cases the majority has come down on the side of the reinstatement of capital punishment.
The trouble with that line of reasoning is that it leads to government by opinion poll. Instead of electing Nelson Riis as the Member of Parliament for Kamloops-Shuswap, the voters, if they use this approach to important decision-making, might just as well use a polling firm to conduct polls on critical issues, as opposed to having a Member of Parliament apply his or her judgment to the issue.
The assumption behind this type of polling contradicts the whole theory of representative democracy. The electorate sends people to the Parliament of Canada to exercise judgment on their behalf. As Edmund Burke put it two centuries ago, Parliament is not a congress of ambassadors but a deliberative assembly of one nation whose job it is to discuss and arrive at what is good for the whole country.
One chooses a Member of Parliament, Madam Speaker, as the first area of responsibility for that individual. The Member of Parliament who uses methods such as polling, in my opinion, belittles himself or herself in substituting the
mechanical operation of a poll for individual conscience and judgment.
I know that on some occasions Members of Parliament have had to cast their ballots on the side of an issue that went contrary to the public opinion of the day. I refer to my colleagues of the New Democratic Party at the time of the imposition of the War Measures Act, and earlier than that, members of the CCF Party in respect of the relocation of the Japanese during World War II.
At the time of the imposition of the War Measures Act, the popular view in the country was that the Prime Minister was right to introduce the War Measures Act; yet, members of the New Democratic Party stood up and voted against it, against popular opinion, feeling at the time that it was wrong.
In retrospect, in hindsight, we see now that that was the appropriate position to take on the part of the New Democratic Party members; that the imposition of the War Measures Act was an inappropriate measure to take in the circumstances.
To go back to one of the more dastardly historic initiatives taken by Parliament, the decision to relocate, by force, the people of Japanese heritage from the West Coast into the interior parts of Canada, again my colleagues in the CCF voted against that measure, as popular as it was at the time. Hindsight being 20/20, we realize again that the decision to oppose was a correct one.
It is in that same mode that I shall be casting my ballot later today against the reinstatement of capital punishment.
When it comes to this issue, I think we are all agreed that there are significant changes that must be made to our judicial system, our corrections system, and our parole system. I believe that Canadians see the system not working as they perceive it should. Consequently, Canadians are looking for some way to improve the system, to bring justice back into our judicial system. People are of the opinion that, by having capital punishment on the books, this will lead to a more equitable and judicial system.
Unfortunately, such is not the case. Ample evidence exists now to prove that the reimposition of capital punishment would not fulfil some of the more obvious requirements that people ask of us. For example, when it comes to the whole matter of capital punishment, a lot of people believe that it acts as a deterrent; that the fact of having capital punishment on the books will lead to fewer murders. The facts simply disprove that.
In 1975, prior to the total abolition of capital punishment, there were 701 homicides in Canada, for a rate of 3.09 per 100,000 people. In 1980, long after the abolition of capital punishment, the number of homicides totalled 593, for a rate of 2.47 per 100,000. In 1985, there were 686 homicides, for a rate of 2.78 per 100,000; and in 1986, the most recent year for which we have statistics, there were 561 homicides, the lowest since 1973.
June 29, 1987

So, looking at the number of murders in this country, one finds that in fact the rate has decreased since capital punishment was removed as a reality in Canada. Again, seeing capital punishment as a deterrent, obviously, is inappropriate.
If all punishment has a deterrent effect, then the value of capital punishment must lie only in its marginal deterrence. The question is one of the extent to which it deters more than would a prison sentence.
Deterrence is a concept based on the assumption that crime follows the calculation of an individual's advantage. Legislators, relying on deterrence as a strategy to control crime, may increase the severity of penalties in the belief that this will increase the individual's fear of punishment, thus decreasing the incidence of crime. The question is whether sufficient knowledge is available to justify such an approach.
The validity of the literature supporting the deterrence effect of punishment has been questioned on the basis that deterrence has been used in too broad a sense to be very meaningful at all. If one looks at the facts, it is indicated very clearly that the deterrence aspect is an inappropriate justification for capital punishment.
The other issue, of course, is the risk to the innocent. Perhaps the most forceful argument against capital punishment is the danger that an innocent person may be put to death. There is no system that can ensure the infallibility of judgment. In the past, there have been cases of mistaken execution. Even with all of the safeguards in the modern context, that risk still exists.
In 1982, Donald Marshall, wrongly convicted of murder, was released from the penitentiary in New Brunswick after serving 11 years.
Aside from the possibility of false evidence in a murder trial, the crime, by its very nature, arouses emotions that carry with them the risk of incurring failures of perception in those making the decision. It has been reported, Madam Speaker, that 343 persons were wrongly convicted of murder in the United States. Again, the matter of risk is involved.
As many speakers earlier have indicated, where capital punishment is available, a jury can be very reluctant to bring in a guilty verdict, knowing that that will be the ultimate result. The fact is, where capital punishment exists, a jury will often free the accused, rather than bring in a guilty verdict which could attract the death penalty.
So, if we are interested in protecting society from dangerous criminals, from murderers, again, the evidence would indicate that capital punishment is an inappropriate approach to take.
Another reason for voting against the reinstatement of the death penalty is the inequality of justice as it is applied today. I think it is fair to say that the death penalty, in practice, is not administered with equality. Those who are executed are, for the most part, from the disadvantaged, the uneducated, or minority groups.
Capital Punishment
In the United States, where the most statistics on this issue exist, it has been found that the poor, the black, the ignorant are the most likely to be executed. Those with money or influence u