Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106(8), I have the honour of tabling, in both official languages, the Government's response to three petitions numbered as follows: 332-4373,3324375 and 332-4474.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.] [English]


I might interrupt Routine Proceedings to advise the House that Hansard has been delayed. However, it is now being distributed in the Chamber.


Mr. Speaker, I have a number of routine motions that have been reviewed with the opposition Parties. I think Your Honour will find that the House will be content to hear them and pass them immediately.
The first motion concerns Bill C-131 which was introduced yesterday. I move:
That the order for second reading and reference to a legislative committee of Bill C-131, an Act to amend the National Transportation Act, 1987, standing on the Order Paper, be changed to reading second reading and reference to the Standing Committee on Transport.


Does the Hon. Minister of State have unanimous consent to move the motion?


Mr. Speaker, I apologize, but that was the last motion I had in my group. I am still checking with our critic on whether he agrees with this motion. Perhaps the Government could hold it for a few minutes, until we have a chance to speak to our critic.


Perhaps I did not hear the Hon. Member. Is he referring to the motion that has just been proposed by the Minister of State, or to one of the motions which the Minister indicated that he will be proposing?


Mr. Speaker, the motion respecting the order for second reading of Bill C-131, an Act to amend the National Transportation Act, 1987, is the motion to which I am referring.


I propose to stand this motion down. I would ask the Minister of State to address the House on the other motions to which he referred.


That is fine, Mr. Speaker. Perhaps you could ask the page to return the original copy of the motion with my notation that it has the clearance of the other Parties so that I could have it for my files.
Actually, the note says: "Liberals tentative only, get back to us at 11 a.m.". It is stood properly.


Mr. Speaker, I have now had time to consult with my critic and I would like the Government to know, through its Minister, that he can change the note on his sheet and read it properly. We will authorize and agree with the committee reference on Bill C-131.


I think we can take it as proposed. Does the Hon. Minister of State have unanimous consent of the House to move the motion?


Agreed.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
I can assure my hon. friend, Mr. Speaker, with respect to this last motion, that it will be the last time I get a copy that says "tentative". I am sure that has been recorded elsewhere, too.

June 2, 1988
Motions


Mr. Speaker, I move:
That Standing Order 89(3) be amended by deleting paragraph "(b)" and substituting the following therefor:
"(b) Scrutiny of Regulations, to consist of eight Members."
That Standing Order 96(4) be amended by deleting paragraph "(b)" and substituting the following therefor:
"(b) the Standing Joint Committee for the Scrutiny of Regulations shall include, among other matters, the review and scrutiny of statutory instruments which are permanently referred to the Committee pursuant to the provisions of section 26 of the Statutory Instruments Act;" and
That a message be sent to the Senate to acquaint their Honours thereof.


Does the Hon. Minister of State have unanimous consent of the House to move the motion?


Agreed.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, the next motion is with respect to visits to the House of Commons of two foreign dignitaries. I move:
That notwithstanding Standing Order 3(1), on Thursday, June 16, the House shall meet at two o'clock p.m.; and
That, for the operation of the Standing Orders, such sitting shall be deemed to be a Wednesday, except that Private Members' Business shall be taken up between five o'clock p.m. and six o'clock p.m.; and
That, the address of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to be delivered in the House Chamber on Thursday, June 16, 1988, at eleven o'clock a.m., before Members of the Senate and House of Commons, together with all introductory and related speeches, be printed as an appendix to the House of Commons Debates of that day and form part of the records of this House; and
That, the Chancellor's address, together with all introductory and related remarks, be made available to the media for transmission in the usual way by the House of Commons broadcasting system; and
That, the address of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, to be delivered in the House Chamber on Wednesday, June 22, 1988, at twelve o'clock noon, before Members of the Senate and House of Commons, together with all introductory and related speeches, be printed as an appendix to the House of Commons Debates of that day and form part of the records of this House; and
That, the Prime Minister's address, together with all introductory and related remarks, be made available to the media for transmission in the usual way by the House of Commons broadcasting system.


Does the Hon. Minister of State have unanimous consent of the House to move the motion?


Agreed.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, there have been discussions among the Parties with respect to today's business, and I think you will find consent for the following proposal that would see the House concur in the Senate amendment to Bill C-102, and for Bills C-73, C-115, C-122, and C-123 to all receive second reading and reference to committee before the conclusion of Government Orders at 5 p.m. this evening.
We have rearranged, after discussion with the critics, the order of business to read as follows: first, the concurrence in the Senate amendment to Bill C-102 and then, in the following order, Bills C-l 15, C-122, C-123, and C-73.
I also have a motion that would allow the Bills to be referred to the same legislative committee, which reads as follows:
That, when the motions for second reading and reference to a Legislative Committee of Bill C-73, an Act to provide for the implementation of an agreement respecting Indian lands in Ontario, Bill C-l 15, an Act to amend the Indian Act and another Act in consequence thereof, Bill C-122, an Act to amend the Indian Act (by-laws and membership rules) and Bill C-123, an Act to amend the Indian Act (minors' funds and surviving spouse's preferential share), have been adopted, the said Bills shall stand referred to the same Legislative Committee; and
That, notwithstanding Standing Order 93(5)(a), the said Committee shall remain in existence until each Bill has been reported back to the House.


Mr. Speaker, generally, speaking for the Official Opposition, we agree with the arrangements indicated to the House by the Minister of State. Certainly we do with respect to the order, that is, that we begin with Bill C-102, then proceed to Bill C-l 15, Bill C-122, Bill C-123, and end with Bill C-73. We also agree that, if the way is clear and there are no procedural difficulties, all the matters go to the same legislative committee.
There is only one difference with what the Minister of State outlined, and that is with respect to Bill C-l 15. There have been discussions among the Parties that we would deal this morning with Bill C-l 15 and take it through second reading. There is also agreement that this afternoon, when the Minister returns to the House, we would ask that Bill C-l 15 go into Committee of the Whole so that we can deal with all stages of Bill C-l 15, through to the third reading stage, this afternoon. Therefore, that Bill would not be included among the Bills that go to the legislative committee. If that is acceptable to the Government, we can then proceed on that basis.


Before calling on the Minister of State, perhaps I should hear from the Hon. Member for Skeena (Mr. Fulton).
June 2, 1988


Mr. Speaker, I just want to confirm what my friend, the Hon. Member for Cochrane- Superior (Mr. Penner), has said. I am not sure why we need Bill C-102 to go to the legislative committee. I think it will simply go on out of this place. Just to make it clear, it is complete; We are only changing a very small technical part of it. It will not go to a legislative committee. It will go out of here so that the enrolment procedures for the Inuvialuit can take place.
With respect to Bill C-115, I just want to confirm that I have an agreement with the Minister, and I spoke to the Parliamentary Secretary this morning, that we will start with the motion on Bill C-102, deal with it, deal with second reading of Bill C-115, complete that, and, if we have time, go on to Bill C-122. When the Minister is available after three o'clock this afternoon, we will revert and do all stages of Bill C-115 with the Minister present, and then complete either Bill C-122, Bill C-123, or Bill C-73, what is left of those. Bills C-122, C-123, and C-73 are the three Bills which will go to the legislative committee. Bill C-102 goes out of here, and Bill C-115 will have been completed and will go to the other place.


Mr. Speaker, I apologize for rising again, but I would like to seek some direction from the Government with respect to the point raised by my friend, the Hon. Member for Skeena (Mr. Fulton). Bill C-102 is such a simple matter, a technical matter. I would like some direction from the Government on how we can can deal expeditiously with it through all stages and on what the procedure will be, because obviously there is no need for such a Bill to go to the legislative committee.


If I may, Mr. Speaker, I mentioned Bill C-102 in my opening remarks, but when I got to the draft motion there was no reference to Bill C-102 in it. It will be handled first in order of business and then we will concur in the amendment made by the Senate.
With respect to Bill C-115, naturally I am pleased to see the degree of co-operation we have received, and we will leave it on consent of the Parties to amend the House order as proceedings go on this afternoon.


Does the Hon. Minister of State have unanimous consent of the House to move the motion?


Agreed.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Petitions
Mr. Speaker, I have six petitions signed by Canadians from the City of Regina and the communities of Regina Beach, Quill Lake, and a few others in Saskatchewan.
The petitioners state that whereas schizophrenia is a major illness in Canada affecting about 1 per cent of the population and costing Canadian society more than $3 billion annually in direct health care and other support costs, and whereas the research effort in Canada dedicated to schizophrenia is extremely limited and not commensurate with the burden the illness imposes on Canadians, the undersigned, your petitioners, humbly pray and call upon Parliament to ensure that research efforts related to schizophrenia will, in future, be commensurate with the seriousness of this illness in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present three petitions signed by residents of Winnipeg and of other towns and cities in Manitoba.
The petitioners state in part that whereas the Conservative Government had no mandate from the Canadian people to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States, and whereas the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) promised in the course of the bilateral trade negotiations that Canadian sovereignty would not be compromised, your petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to dissolve and allow the people of Canada the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed free trade agreement during a national general election.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106, it is my honour and privilege to present a petition signed by a number of constituents, particularly from the Town of Riverview in my constituency.
They are concerned about the recent decision of the Supreme Court of Canada. They humbly pray and call upon Parliament to pass immediately legislation to protect innocent unborn children.


Mr. Speaker, I have the pleasure to present a petition signed by residents of my constituency in the towns of Wheatly, Cottam, Kingsville, Leamington, and Ruthven. They humbly pray and call upon the Government to pass into law legislation that will protect the life of the unborn child from conception, and at all stages of development, with the exception of the extremely rare situation in which an abortion is performed to save the life of the mother.

June 2, 1988
Order Paper Questions CANADA-U.S. FREE TRADE AGREEMENT


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour and the privilege to table a petition from a number of citizens of Windsor. It is a petition which has been properly certified by the Clerk of Petitions in conformity with Standing Order 106.
The petitioners state that whereas the Conservative Government had no mandate from the Canadian people to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States; whereas the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) promised in the course of bilateral trade negotiations that Canadian sovereignty would not be compromised; and whereas the proposed trade agreement would deny Canada the policy freedom to determine its own economic future and would undermine our ability to build a society distinct from the United States, therefore the undersigned humbly pray and call upon Parliament to dissolve and to allow the people of Canada the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed free trade agreement during a national general election.


(Question answered orally is indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, Question No. 328 will be answered today.

DOT-GRANTS AND/OR LOANS WITHIN METROPOLITAN TORONTO


Since September 4, 1984, did the Department of Transport make grants and/or loans to persons or corporations, non-governmental organizations and governments within Metropolitan Toronto and, if so, to which ones and, in each case, in what amount and for what purpose?


Yes, grants only. No loans were made.
(a)	Grants for transportation research to universities, other organizations, university students and other individuals. Toronto/York University-Downsview $450,000
(b) Grants to institutions assisting sailors Mission to Seamen-Toronto $1,200


The question as enumerated by the Parliamentary Secretary has been answered.


Mr. Speaker, I would ask that all the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Shall the remaining questions be allowed to stand?


Agreed.


the second reading of, and concurrence in, an amendment made by the Senate to Bill C-102, an Act to amend the Western Arctic (Inuvialuit) Claims Settlement Act.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the accommodation of the other Parties regarding the Bills that are being put forward today, particularly Bill C-102. There was an error in printing by the Department and the Minister. It was not discovered as it went through the House the first time. The Senate dealt with this error.
The original documents tabled with the Inuvialuit were correct. It was simply the legislation on which the dates were not correct. We are hoping that because of this we can deal quickly with the Bill, concur in the amendment, and send it on for concurrence by the Governor General so that it can become law very quickly.


Mr. Speaker, of course if the Official Opposition concur in this motion. I just want to indicate to the House that the substance of this Bill has already been fully considered. We dealt with it in all stages at an earlier time.
The agreement between the Government of Canada and the Western Arctic Inuvialuit represents an important step forward in settling claims. The changes that we passed earlier were primarily of a technical nature. When we did so, no one picked up the fact that there was an error in the drafting of the legislation with respect to the date. That is what we are now correcting. It causes no problems at all.
However, I think we owe a debt of gratitude to the Senate for having detected this error. It is not a serious one, but there have been other occasions when bad drafting has led to some very serious repercussions.
I would simply draw to Your Honour's attention a piece of legislation called Bill C-31 wherein bad drafting resulted in a regulation now used by the Department of Indian Affairs to prohibit a significant number of people from applying for the reinstatement of their Indian status. This is what we now refer to as the infamous death rule. The Department of Justice looked at the statute and discovered that there was a difficulty
June 2, 1988

with it. Because there was a difficulty, it is now being applied in practice and affecting people's lives.
1 simply want to draw to the attention of the House and to the attention of the country that we around here can sometimes be a little too lax in legislative committees and, in certain cases, in standing committees, or if we are dealing with matters in Committee of the Whole. We need a kind of expertise so that these errors in drafting will not get away from us.
I just want to repeat that we cannot take it for granted that we can proceed on the basis of good faith that those who draft legislation for us always do it right. That is why we have to be continually vigilant.
I repeat that with this case it is not a serious error. It is just a small one. We can deal with it very easily. That, of course, is the intention of the Official Opposition.


Mr. Speaker, it is nice to have an opportunity to speak for a moment to the amendment to Bill C-102. I spoke to senior people in the Department who are aware of how this came to be on page 2 in the first clause at line 13. The date, April 11, 1987, happened to be put in there. The actual document was typed with that date, as I understand it, at the top of the page, and the actual date of signature was put in, in ink, at the bottom of the page. When the draftspeo-ple were putting in a date, they in fact used the most visible and obvious typed date rather than the appropriate one, which is May 11, 1987.
I am assured that this is simply a technical change that resulted from a small error. It is not some other agreement or whatever, although I know that many first citizens in the country are deeply suspicious of what the federal Government does most of the time, if not all the time. They have every right to be given the assurance that it is not a change in any other way than to put the proper date on the document.
I want to remind Hon. Members about how long it has taken for us actually to get this done. The Inuvialuit, or as their negotiating arm was known, COPE, entered into the agreement with Canada on June 5, 1984. It was tabled in the House on June 19, 1984. It was passed by the House on June 26. That is almost four years to the day that the agreement was put in place. It has taken us four years of procedure to get to where we are today. It can go very quickly to get Royal Assent in order that, perhaps, it could be fully implemented by next week.
The Inuvialuit final agreement contained 18 principal points: 35,000 square miles in title fee simple absolute, full subsurface rights to 5,000 square miles, to roughly a seventh of the land, and on the other 30,000 square miles the Crown holds the rights to certain minerals, natural gas, oil, and so on.
The compensation was arranged at $44 million in 1977 dollars. Approximately $12 million was borrowed by the
Western Arctic (Inuvialuit) Claims Settlement Act
Inuvialuit and their negotiators to complete the process of negotiations. At present, the full amount in inflation protected dollars is $152 million, of which $73 million has been put out and there is approximately $73 million permitted yet outstanding.
I am pleased it is passing through this place today because the enrolment procedures for the Inuvialuit are being held up. They had planned to complete that this month. If the Governor General moves quickly, hopefully they may be able to complete that this month, or certainly by next month. I am pleased that after only four years of delay both Chambers have managed to patch things up and get the deal concluded.


If you will recall, Mr. Speaker, what Bill C-102 did was to correct no less than 14 pages of drafting errors in the original Bill or in the agreement that formed the schedule thereto. In my remarks today I wish to echo the comments made by the Hon. Member for Cochrane-Superior (Mr. Penner) that we must do a better job of drafting. These things are going backwards and forwards like a yo-yo between this place and the Senate in order that these corrections can be made. Professionalism within the various government Departments, in this case the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and presumably also the Department of Justice, ought to exist in order that that does not happen in future.


Is the House ready for the question?


Question.


Mrs. Landry, for Mr. McKnight, moves that the amendment made by the Senate to Bill C-102, an Act to amend the Western Arctic (Inuvialuit) Claims Settlement Act, be now read a second time and concurred in.
Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to, amendment read the second time and concurred in.
The Hon. Member for Wetaskiwin (Mr. Schellenberger) on a point of order.


For clarification, Mr. Speaker, as I understood it, you called for second reading. We would like this to pass directly through the House. If you could accommodate us, we would be very happy.


The motion has been adopted and it now goes back into the Senate, so there is really no problem with that. That is the usual procedure.
The Hon. Member for Cochrane-Superior (Mr. Penner).


We were seeking clarification from the Chair that, if we dispose of it at this stage, that will be the end of it

June 2, 1988
Indian Act
and the Inuvialuit will know that there will be no further procedural matters related to the changes to their agreement.


The motion has been adopted. It will go back to the Senate and then it will come back after Royal Assent.


that Bill C-115, an Act to amend the Indian Act and another Act in consequence thereof, be read the second time and, by unanimous consent, referred to Committee of the Whole.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to speak to this Bill, one which is being presented for second reading today. Hopefully, by agreement, it can move through the House today by way of Committee of the Whole and third reading. We wish to do this because of the significance of the Bill.
It has been brought forward by the Indian people. We are looking for an amendment at their request. This Bill was given extra direction at the conference held in the City of Edmonton where the Assembly of First Nations met and passed a resolution supporting this legislation. The band that initiated the Bill that we are discussing is the Kamloops Band of British Columbia. They began the process in January, 1985.
By the end of that year, well over 100 other bands from across the country had formally communicated their support of this legislation to the Government. In July, 1986, the General Assembly of First Nations endorsed the Kamloops proposal, as they did again in the last couple of days.
On March 16, 1988, the Confederacy of Nations of the Assembly of First Nations examined Bill C-115 itself and endorsed it in principle. The Assembly of First Nations requested only one small amendment to the text of the Bill, and this is included in the motions that have been prepared.
I also wish to speak to the opposition critics on four very minor amendments that must be proposed to this legislation, and we hope to do that in Committee of the Whole. Those amendments are prepared and hopefully will be endorsed by all of us.
Over the last several years Chief Clarence Jules of the Kamloops Band, when we should commend for his diligence and hard work in this area, has travelled extensively throughout the country explaining this proposal at countless meetings to any band or organization that wishes to listen. He has also been very diligent in his work on Parliament Hill with those of us who are interested in Indian matters. Indian people
understood what he was proposing and they supported him. I hope we will also do so today.
Chief Jules' attitude is one I share: as long as the Indian Act is with us, until such time as it is superseded by a higher and better law, then we should make the Act work for Indian people and not against them. Whatever gains we make in this way can be retained for the future in other legal expressions yet to come.
There are two main purposes to this Bill: first, to clarify the legal status of Indian lands; second, to establish the legal foundation for property taxation by band councils. These two purposes are closely related. I do not need to remind the House that land is one of the most vital and sacred concerns of Indian people. The lands that are set aside for Indian people must be under Indian control, and they must be legally disposed of in such a way as to provide maximum control and economic benefit to Indian communities.
One of the principal means by which Indian bands can benefit economically from their land is through leasing, both to Indians and in many cases to non-Indians, until such time as they have sufficient control, whether it is in farming, timber, or mining, to take over those apparatus themselves. The lease makes possible modern financial and contractual arrangements. Some bands may not wish to use their land in these ways, and that is their choice, but many bands wish to use their land base as a source of wealth and employment for their community, as well as underpinning their economic development. They must have that opportunity.
The great advantage to leasing arrangements is that the ultimate Indian interest in the land can be retained and the land is not lost from the reserve. At the same time, the lease provides the legal basis for the economic use of the land.
In order for bands to lease their land, the Indian Act requires that the land must first be surrendered to the Crown, which is then authorized to enter into the lease on behalf of the band. This is obviously an indirect and very complicated process. However, it has historical roots which touch on the basic nature of the relationship among the Crown, Indian land, and Indian people.
In this proposal to amend the Indian Act, Indian people have not asked that the surrender process be changed or removed. Such a step may come in the future, but only after much consideration has been given to the consequences for the Indian-Crown relationship. However, within the present context of the surrender process, the fundamental difference needs to be clarified between an absolute surrender of land for sale and a surrender for lease. At present this difference is merely mentioned in one line of the Indian Act. It is not clearly set out nor worked through the relevant sections of the Act.
June 2, 1988

The Bill before us will establish that a surrender may take one of two forms-first, an absolute surrender for sale which would remove land completely of all Indian interests and take it out of reserve, which is extremely rare, and, second, a surrender for lease or some other restricted purpose, in which case the land remains part of the reserve. Setting aside part of a reserve for leasing is not a surrender, nor is it a release of the Indian interest in the land.
In order to facilitate and strengthen the distinction between these two types of surrender, land surrendered for lease would be termed "designated land" and the process of such nonabsolute surrender would be termed "designation". This terminology is obviously far superior to the word "surrender", and the symbolic importance of this change is of great value.
As a result of these amendments Indian communities will be able to set land aside for development without fear of losing the Indian status of the land. The rights they obtain through the Indian Act will continue to apply, such as voting rights in band elections, protection of cultural property, and the power to govern the land through by-laws.
The last point is very important. At present it is not at all clear in the Indian Act whether the word "reserve" includes surrendered land of any type. There is, therefore, a risk that when land is surrendered for lease it might cease to be defined as part of the reserve and the by-law powers of the band council could not govern the land. This is a totally unacceptable loss of Indian jurisdiction and control of Indian land. It would also mean a very serious vacuum of local jurisdiction over leased Indian land. This has taken place in many instances across Canada and is why the band at Kamloops requested the change. This situation cannot be permitted to continue.
One of the most important by-law powers that bands need is their power to tax use of the land. That brings me to the second purpose of these amendments, which is to establish clearly that band councils have the power to tax any interest or use of reserve lands in order to defray their costs as the government of that land. Such taxation power is obviously indispensable to any form of modern government. Some bands may not wish to use this power, but it must be there for bands which wish to exercise it.
In fact, Section 83 of the Indian Act has provided a taxation power for band councils since 1951. It is possible, however, that the power might apply only to Indians. It may not, as presently worded, apply to non-Indian leaseholders. The amendments will make certain that non-Indians are covered.
Section 83 is being brought up to date in other ways as well. Bands will no longer need to be declared to have reached an advanced stage of development before they may pass money by-laws. This provision is offensive and pointless.
The enforcement powers of band councils needed for their tax systems will be strengthened. Band taxation by-laws will be required to include appeal procedures to ensure equity for
Indian Act
taxpayers. A general federal regulatory power is provided. Although no regulations are proposed at this time, the purpose of any future regulations would be to minimize ministerial discretion in respect of the exercise of band powers. If rules are necessary, they should be explicit and objective.
There is one final aspect of the Bill which I want to touch on in these remarks. There are certain sections of the Indian Act which create exclusively Indian land holdings in a reserve in which non-Indians cannot participate. The word "reserve" cannot include "designated land" for the purposes of the sections, since designated land is designed to include nonIndian participation. These sections are enumerated in the new definition of reserve, but Section 89 of the Act creates a special consideration in this context.
Section 89 protects Indian real and personal property on a reserve from any form of seizure or mortgage. It is a mixed blessing for Indian people. On one hand it protects their property, but on the other hand it prevents them from offering security for loans.
The question arises on how the concept of designated land should apply to Section 89. After all, the purpose of designated land is to allow leasehold interests to enter the legal and economic mainstream while protecting the underlying Indian interest in the land.
With this in mind, Section 89 is proposed for amendments so that leasehold interests in designated land would be made mortgageable. This will mean that an Indian person holding a lease on designated land would be able, just as a non-Indian is, to use the lease as security for a loan. There would be no risk to the ultimate reserve status of the land nor any possible loss of the ultimate Indian interest. Only the lease would be at risk. Of course, such leasehold interests would also remain under band council jurisdiction. This change should be a major breakthrough for the Indian economic use and benefit of reserve land.
The tendency in arguing for amendments to the Indian Act is either to do away with it entirely or to amend every section. Neither option is proposed here. Indian people have suggested a limited change to the Act. I believe these amendments are necessary and extremely helpful to Indian aspirations at this time, and I am pleased to be able to bring them to this House.
I want to add in closing that in August of 1987 the Department released an information booklet explaining these proposed amendments in detail. Over 6,000 copies of that booklet were distributed, including two separate mailings to all chiefs. Members of the House and the Senate were also sent copies, as were all provincial Governments and major associations of municipalities. These amendments have been developed in a very open process. Indeed, the content of this legislation has been developed in close consultation with Chief Jules, its main proponent from the Indian community.
I think the way in which this process has been undertaken shows that government and Indian co-operation on legislative

June 2, 1988
Indian Act
change is possible and can produce substantial and positive results. I hope we will see much more of that type of cooperation as we continue to make changes in the years ahead.
In conclusion, it is very important that we continue this kind of process to encourage the self-government movement toward which many of us in this House have worked so hard. This is one small change in that direction.


Nations' right to their lands and the waters and resources on those lands.
Bill C-l 15 has to be seen as part of the ancien regime, a part of the old order. You may remember from your history classes, Mr. Speaker, about the ancien regime in France prior to the French Revolution. At that time, it was necessary for a local congregation to come to the Estates General to get permission to repair the roof of the church. Bill C-l 15 is not very much different from that. We are participating in an action under the old order, an old order that simply must change in time.
It is regrettable and unfortunate that it is still necessary for Parliament to give First Nations the permission to tax nonIndian interests on their own lands, on lands they have designated for development or leasing. In the process of so doing we also have to make it clear, are the legislation does, that tax exemptions on purchases and incomes made on these lands are applicable as they are on so-called reserves.
It has become customary, when we amend the Indian Act, to go through some manner of consultation. The Parliamentary Secretary made it clear that there had been a consultation process, and in this case it has been a satisfactory one. The Assembly of First Nations, in 1986, adopted a resolution endorsing the position taken by Chief Manny Jules of the Kamloops Band. However, at the same time, I think this House ought to be aware that the Assembly of First Nations and other native organizations in Canada remain highly critical of this Government's reluctance to move forward with more vigour in the recognition of aboriginal self-governments.
I have to tell my colleagues in the House once again how distressed I am that the important work done a number of years ago by the Special Committee on Indian Self-Government in Canada has resulted in very little that is positive. I regret that the Department of Indian Affairs has chosen to use much of the vocabulary of this report but to go on denying the essence and the reality of what was recommended in that document.
In Indian-Government relations in Canada, there has been much betrayal by successive Governments, both federal and provincial. Since there is such a long record of broken promises, there remains a deep concern that revenue that will be raised on these conditionally surrendered lands, these designated lands, will in future offer the Government a reason for reducing the normal or regular financial support for band administration, for economic development, for housing, and for other ongoing programs which in reality constitute a part of the federal Government's obligations under treaty or other aboriginal rights.
I hope that will not happen. I hope that the Government will not tell a band that raises revenue in this manner that now that it has some money from its own lands it does not need the other programs and that it will give them to someone else.
That approach has been tried as a result of the settlement with the James Bay Cree. It was done with one particular band
Indian Act
in the southern part of the Province of Alberta, a band which received compensation from the Government for a cattle claim. When those moneys were disbursed, immediately the Government sought to reduce social assistance to the members of that band. That is the kind of betrayal that Indian people are concerned about. I want to make it clear that we will be watching carefully to see that, as a result of Bill C-l 15, this does not occur again.
Meanwhile, Chief Jules has made it clear that nothing in Bill C-l 15 will cause Indian bands to lose any jurisdiction on leased reserve lands, on these designated lands.
I conclude simply by saying that because the days of this Parliament are obviously and rapidly drawing to a close, Chief Jules wants to see this Bill become law and not die on the Order Paper. As the spokesperson for Indian and aboriginal affairs for the Liberal Party of Canada, I want to assure the chief of our complete support for and co-operation in dealing with this Bill. That is why the Parliamentary Secretary, the Minister, my colleague from the New Democratic Party, and I have agreed that when the Minister returns this afternoon we will deal with all remaining stages of this Bill, so that before this Parliament comes to an end Chief Manny Jules will have the legislation he so desperately wants, the legislation he worked so hard to attain.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to participate in the debate today, and I guess we can call it this afternoon now. I know that so long as the cable system in Edmonton, your hometown, Mr. Speaker, is still working, Manny will be watching with great interest this afternoon.


I would like the Hon. Member to know that they were watching at 12.30 this morning, and we are back again 12 hours later. I am sure they will be watching you also.


Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I know that sometimes this is good watching, particularly right now, of course. A scintillating debate is about to take place.
I want to make clear for the record the agreement we have. It is an agreement that seems to have become somewhat clouded over the last few days. The Minister approached the Hon. Member for Cochrane-Superior (Mr. Penner) and I on Monday, in writing, regarding the Bills for today. We collectively struck an agreement some 48 hours ago that Bill C-l 15 would go through the House in all stages today so that it can get off to the Senate and get Royal Assent before the end of this Parliament. By getting our job done today, we are giving effect to the long and hard work that Chief Jules and many others have done, not only in British Columbia but right across Canada.
I know that Chief Jules, in Edmonton yesterday, was carrying on his discussions with George Erasmus, Joe Mathias, George Watts, Conrad Sioe, and many others in relation to this Bill because some concerns were expressed by some in relation to the nature of Bill C-l 15. I think that is quite

June 2, 1988
Indian Act
natural in that it is viewed by some as being a bit of a municipal change to the Indian Act, something that many First Nations avoid. Such a change has an odour that many First Nations do not like to have persist in the atmosphere around them.
Quite frankly, Bill C-115 is not and should not be viewed as some major advance in self-government, nor should it be ruled out as simply some kind of added municipal order. The amendments proposed here have limited but valuable impacts for those bands that wish to use them. The amendments are not some kind of imposition by Parliament on the over 500 bands and the many reserves of Canada.
As my friends both from the government side and from the Official Opposition have said, this is about the right to tax non-Indian interests on conditionally surrendered, or as they will be known, designated lands. Perhaps there is the most urgency coming from British Columbia because of the present tax structures affecting places such as Chief Manny Jules' own home in Kamloops.
B.C. is a little different from most other areas of the country. Other than Governor Douglas' 14 very small treaties on Vancouver Island, and Treaty 8 in northeastern British Columbia and northwestern Alberta, there are no comprehensive settlements in British Columbia and the reserves are very small. We have to reflect on the fact that here we are in the middle of 1988 discussing providing the mechanisms which will allow those very small and impoverished communities to actually tax. This debate should have taken place a century ago. However, we have to compliment the very hard work done by Manny Jules in getting it this far, through second reading this morning and, when the Minister is available this afternoon, through third reading and on to the Senate.
I want to spend a moment on an analysis of Bill C-115 done by a Vancouver lawyer. The analysis was produced in March of this year and makes some interesting points. It says that one must recognize that the amendments do not address all significant areas of Indian concern or the antiquated system of the Indian Act. The amendments do not fundamentally change the land holding system under the Act, nor do they represent any major advance to self-government. The proposed amendments must be thus considered in their context as having the following limited purposes: (a) clarifying the legal characterization of lands which have been surrendered for lease so as to confirm that these lands remain part of the reserve; (b) expanding the powers of Indian Governments to raise revenue on their land from band members as now exists and to include non-Indian businesses on leased land; (c) modifying Section 89 of the Indian Act which protects the property of an Indian from seizure and has the inadvertent consequence of making financing of Indian businesses difficult- that is a point I can certainly confirm from my experience in northwestern British Columbia-and (d) repealing a provision of the Veterans Lands Act.
That is a matter which we are of course going to be dealing with by amendment this afternoon. As I understand it, the original drafters wanted to do it for consequential reasons in relation to other legislation, and in fact an amendment will be moved by the Parliamentary Secretary to delete, I believe, Clause 13 from the legislation.
It should also be noted that these amendments were developed by the Department of Indian Affairs in consultation with and on the initiative of the Kamloops Indian Band. The provincial Government of British Columbia assesses property tax on non-Indian leaseholders of conditionally surrendered lands. The Kamloops Indian Band had faced particular hardship under the existing legislation as it conditionally surrendered some of its lands to create an industrial park and had several non-Indian lessees.
While the province claimed substantial property, school, hospital, and other taxes from those leaseholders, over $7 million in B.C. two years ago, studies show that few services are provided to Indian lands in return. Indian communities such as Kamloops, seeking to develop their lands or lease a portion of these lands, were often required to pay for services to these lands, and the province is acute for all First Nations in B.C. as it is the only province assessing occupiers or lessees of Indian lands.
There is, of course, the Leonard case of 1985 which decided that the personal property tax exemption in Section 87 of the Indian Act applying to income tax, sales tax, tobacco and gasoline taxes, among others, did not apply to transactions occurring on conditionally surrendered lands. This of course created further economic disadvantage for Indian communities that developed lands involving surrenders for the purpose of leasing.
There are some other major applications, but one other which I think should be put on the record concerns Section 87(b) and income tax. An important issue here concerns Indians working for businesses on conditionally surrendered or leased lands. Interpretation Bulletin IT-62 from Revenue Canada considers conditionally surrendered lands to be part of the reserve for the income tax issue. Bulletin IT-62 looks to where the services were performed to determine whether the Indian's income or personal property was situated on a reserve as Section 87 requires. The Supreme Court of Canada case, Nowegijick v. The Queen, decided that an Indian's income or property is situated where the employer is located and where they are paid. This effectively overturned Bulletin IT-62 and it has now been withdrawn. While the Indian remission order continues to recognize the tax exemption for Indians working on reserves, its definition of reserves does not include conditionally surrendered or what is now known as designated lands.
It would therefore appear that an Indian employee, one, working for an employer based on conditionally surrendered lands and working there, or, two, working for an employer based on conditionally surrendered lands and working off reserves, or, three, working for an employer off reserve but
June 2, 1988

doing work on conditionally surrendered lands, will under present law not be able to take advantage of the income tax exemption in Section 87. Under the Bill before us today, however, in all these situations the Indian employee will not be liable to pay income tax because conditionally surrendered lands to be known as designated lands will remain part of the reserve and Section 87 will apply. Those are interesting and important opinions.
The document that was alluded to by the Parliamentary Secretary dealing with proposed amendments to the Indian Act concerning conditionally surrendered land and band taxation powers has, I understand, been made widely available.
I do not agree with all the language, but I think some parts of it are worth putting on the record because its implications, certainly for B.C. bands and others right across the country, are important. I think Hansard may be the best way for that kind of information to be transmitted because it is available in libraries and elsewhere.
The opening page points out that in 1985 the Kamloops Indian Band, led by Chief Manny Jules, made a proposal to amend the Indian Act and a year ago, when this was put out, over 115 band councils had passed resolutions in support of the initiative. The Kamloops Band first became concerned about the question of taxation and conditionally surrendered land in the early 1960s when it established an industrial park on a section of the reserve near the City of Kamloops. The costs of developing the land and providing such basic services as roads, water, and sewage were and continue to be paid by the band. Yet provincial property taxes have always been levied on the park residence. They were therefore put in the position of having to pay service charges for roads, water, sanitation, and the like to the band in addition to property taxes going to the province. This situation inhibited the band in setting lease rates, providing services, and generally in competing with other industrial parks. This is basically a situation which might be described as double taxation.
After many years the band concluded in the early 1980s that it should assert its own powers to levy taxes. In attempting to do so the band encountered basic deficiencies in the Indian Act respecting conditionally surrendered land. Taxation was not the only problem. The band was also concerned about its ability to zone and regulate the land it developed.
It is important to look at the Bill for a moment. While it appears to be quite lengthy, in fact it is not really a terribly complicated piece of legislation in its intent. It amends the definition of "reserve" by adding a definition for "designated lands". It says:
"designated lands" means a tract of land or any interest therein the legal title to which remains vested in Her Majesty and in which the band for whose use and benefit it was set apart as a reserve has, otherwise than absolutely, released or surrendered its rights or interests, whether before or after the coming into force of this definition;
That is really the key part of the Bill. If one then looks at the following pages, one sees that the amendments are consequential for page after page, adding words like
Indian Act
"absolute" or "designation". These kinds of consequential amendments are required in law to make sure that it is clear and consistent throughout. Right through to pages to 4, 4(a), 5, and so on, there are consequential amendments in relation to land and to the definitions of "taxation" and "process".
Those groups that have expressed concern need not worry that it is legislation which brings a massive, broad sweeping change to the Act. It is very limited in its scope and has specific beneficial consequences for groups like the Kamloops Band and many others.
Let me return to the publication which was made broadly available across the country, certainly to municipal and provincial authorities in British Columbia. It went on to state:
In the February 1986 Budget Speech the announcement was made that the Minister of Indian A