Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the Government's response to Petitions Nos. 332-4618, 332-4678, 332-4819, 3324831, 332-4835 and 332-4837.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


Try to tear it up. We cannot tear this up, Mr. Speaker. We cannot even read it because there is no index.
I ask the Government to ask its specialists in the next few days to give us an index to this Bill so that we can explain it, read it properly, assess it properly and possibly comment on it intelligently, which is more than the Government can do.


I should advise Hon. Members that the Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier (Mr. Gauthier) indicated to me last week his unhappiness with this particular Bill, Bill C-139.
1 want to advise Hon. Members that I have looked through it, but 1 have not read all of it. I will now hear the Hon. Minister of State (Mr. Lewis) on the matter.
MO)


Mr. Speaker, on June 30, 1988, the Government tabled Bill C-139, an Act to amend the Income Tax Act, the Canada Pension Plan, the Unemployment Insurance Act, 1971, the Federal-Provincial Fiscal Arrangements and Federal-Post Secondary Education and Health Contributions Act, 1977, and certain related Acts, a brick of some 500 pages.
I find that not only is it complex and difficult but, to make matters worse, the Government did not append an index to this Bill. For those of us who are not specialists in this field, it is next to impossible to read the Bill. I know that members of the Government sometimes read Bills, and that sometimes Ministers use Bills to inform us as to what is in them. However, I wonder if you, Mr. Speaker, having read this Bill, found it easy to read such a Bill without an index.
In days gone by, members of the Conservative Party would have given hell to the Liberals if we so much as came in with a Bill that did not have an index in it, a Bill one third the size of this Bill. As a matter of fact, the Government has the habit of putting in an index. That is what it did with respect to Bill


I do not remember any income tax legislation as progressive from the previous Liberal administration. Second, I do not remember any indexes.
I will make inquiries to see if it is possible to prepare an index, if one is not already in existence, and report back to my hon. friend and the House.


Perhaps on that the matter could rest, at least for a while. The Government is probably procedurally sound in presenting the Bill. However, there is something to be said for the fact that when Bills are introduced, especially of such complexity, those of us who have had to practice in the field of income tax law know that even with indexes it is not easy to find one's way through those Bills. I am pleased that the Hon. Minister of State has indicated that perhaps he can find some way to accommodate the Hon. Member, although I believe the Government is probably within the rules procedurally.


Since this matter has been raised, Mr. Speaker, it has come to my attention that there is a bit of a jam-up in printing, that there is an index being prepared and it should be available very soon.


I thank the Hon. Member for Ottawa- Vanier for raising the matter, and I thank the Minister of State for responding so expeditiously to the wishes, I am sure, of all Members.

July 4, 1988
Motions


Mr. Speaker, I wish to advise the House that there have been discussions among the Parties. I thank my colleagues opposite for their assistance. Under the provisions of Standing Order 115,1 wish to state that the representatives of all Parties have reached an agreement with regard to a proposed allotment of time for the disposition of report and third reading stages of Bill C-72, an Act respecting the Status and use of the Official Languages of Canada.
I therefore move:
That, in relation to Bill C-72, an Act respecting the Status and use of the Official Languages of Canada, one day shall be allotted to the consideration of the report stage and two hours to the consideration of the third reading stage of the Bill, and
That fifteen minutes before the end of the sitting day allotted to the report stage consideration, and the two hours allotted to the third reading consideration of the said Bill, any proceedings before the House shall be interrupted, if required, for the purpose of this order and, in turn, every question necessary in order to dispose of the said stages of the Bill shall be put forthwith and successively, without further debate or amendment.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the yeas have it. I declare the motion carried.


I wish to reiterate my appreciation for the expeditious manner in which this was handled by the opposition Parties. I want to advise the House that the report stage of Bill C-72 will be on Wednesday afternoon of this week, and that we will call third reading on Thursday morning of this week.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to present a petition which is signed by citizens of Saint John, New Brunswick, and a number of adjoining towns and townships. The petition has been certified correct as to form
and content. It indicates that when the issue of such fundamental importance to the future of Canada as the proposed trade pact with the United States of America comes before Parliament, it is the opinion of the petitioners that the people of Canada should be permitted an opportunity to vote to accept or reject such a trade pact before it is put into force.


Mr. Speaker, I have two petitions to present today. The first petition deals with the trade deal between Canada and the United States. It points out that the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) had no mandate to negotiate this deal, that it would reduce Canada's ability to plan economic, social, and cultural programs, and that it would integrate Canada further into the North American defence industrial base.
Therefore, the petitioners call for a national debate on the trade deal, and that this debate result in a national general election before the agreement comes into effect.


Mr. Speaker, the second petition deals with low-level flight training of pilots of NATO at the Canadian Forces Base at Goose Bay, Labrador. The petition points out that it disrupts the way of life of the native people, that hunting, fishing, tourism, and mining can provide more stable, healthy, and peaceful employment than this type of training, and that this training is provocative in terms of flying under radar in eastern Europe, and therefore endangers world peace.
The petitioners call upon Parliament to ensure that the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) ends all low-level flight training at the Goose Bay Canadian Forces Base.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present four petitions signed by residents of the cities of Winnipeg and Brandon, and towns and villages including Dugald, Selkirk, and Seven Sisters.
The petitioners state that the Conservative Government had no mandate from the Canadian people to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States. The petitioners state that the proposed trade agreement would deny Canada policy freedom to determine its own economic future, and undermine our ability to build a society distinct from that of the United States.
Therefore, the petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to dissolve and allow the people of Canada the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed free trade agreement during a national general election.


Mr. Speaker, I have the privilege and the responsibility to present a petition signed by residents of Toronto, Ontario. The petitioners point out that the Mulroney-Reagan trade deal would reduce Canada's ability to plan the economic, social, and cultural programs that
July 4, 1988

we need. Furthermore, this deal would integrate Canada further into the North American defence industrial base.
The petitioners call for an election in order that the people of Canada can decide once and for all whether or not they want to enter such a deal.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition signed by a number of Canadians from British Columbia to Halifax, and many other parts of the country in between, who are concerned that the Conservative Government has no mandate from the Canadian people to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States. The petitioners are concerned with the threat to Canadian sovereignty in the trade negotiations. They believe that the trade agreement would deny Canada the policy freedom to determine its own economic future, and undermine our ability to build a society distinct from that of the United States.
Therefore, the petitioners pray and call upon Parliament to dissolve and allow the people of Canada the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed free trade agreement during a national general election.
Mr. Speaker, I also have the honour to submit a petition signed by a number of residents of Quebec and my Ottawa-Centre constituency, who also believe the trade agreement between Canada and the United States creates a situation in which Canada would lack the policy freedom to determine its own economic future. They believe that hundreds of thousands of jobs are jeopardized by the trade agreement and they call upon Parliament to dissolve and give Canadians the opportunity to determine the country's economic future in a general election.


Mr. Speaker, I have the responsibility to register with you a petition that comes from Toronto, Scarborough West and surrounding municipalities. According to Standing Order 106, the attached petition is certified correct. There is also a translation in this petition in Chinese, so the signatories certainly did understand everything that they were signing. They feel very strongly that this Government has no mandate to negotiate a free trade deal with the United States, and that the Reagan trade deal would reduce Canada's ability to plan an economic, social and cultural program.
It would integrate Canada further into the North American defence industrial base, and for these reasons they would like Parliament to dissolve and have a general election.


Mr. Speaker, it is a holiday in the United States-Independence Day-and I
Petitions
am pleased to table petitions calling upon the Government to withdraw its Bill and cancel its agreement with Mr. Reagan.
The petitioners humbly declare that the Mulroney Government has sold Canada out without obtaining anything in return; Canadian industries are not always protected against American trade laws; the United States got everything it wanted in every important sector, including agriculture, energy, automobile trade, financial services and investment; the jobs of thousands of Canadians are threatened; and the Conservative Government has not made provision for any retraining assistance for Canadian workers.
The petitioners therefore humbly call upon Parliament to censure the Government for signing the Mulroney-Reagan trade agreement.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour and the duty to table a petition signed by 228 residents of St. Hyacinthe, Sorel, Longueuil and Mont St. Hilaire. These 228 petitions are added to the previous ones tabled in the House, making a total of 33,168 petitions.
The highway safety campaign continues because the petitioners hope that car manufacturers will soon incorporate their request in the production of future cars. Since 1974, the highway safety regulations allowed the installation of air bags for drivers of passenger cars in the belief that this device would reduce the number of serious injuries on the road. For these reasons the petitioners humbly ask Parliament to order car manufacturers to install air bags in the front seats of cars and to install adjustable seat-belts with shoulder straps for rear-seat passengers.


Mr. Speaker, it is my honour and duty to present a petition on behalf of a number of citizens of Alberta-Edmonton, Fort McMurray, Calgary, St. Albert, Leduc, Spruce Grove, Edson-who call upon Parliament to dissolve and to allow the people of Canada an opportunity to accept or reject the proposed free trade agreement during a national general election. They point out that the free trade agreement did not give Canadians what they were told they could get and that the Government did not have a mandate to proceed with this agreement.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition on behalf of residents of the Province of Saskatchewan who, in response to the proposed trade legislation, petition this House with regard to the sell-out of Canadian natural resources in the oil and gas area, agriculture, trade, financial services and investment.
They ask the House to denounce the Government for signing the Reagan trade agreement. This petition is presented on

July 4, 1988
Questions Passed as Orders for Return
behalf of some 30 to 40 residents on behalf of the Province of Saskatchewan.


Mr. Speaker, I have two petitions here from constituents of mine concerning the Government's proposed trade agreement with the United States. My constituents object to the devastation that is going to be caused to Canadian agriculture and the energy sector. They complain about the one-sided nature of this agreement whereby the United States will gain much and Canada stands to gain practically nothing and, in fact, lose a great deal. I would submit this to the Elouse for its consideration.


Mr. Speaker, I have two petitions here, one from people of Ontario in the Brampton area, Mississauga and Bramalea, who petition Parliament against the Mulroney-Reagan trade deal. They feel that Canada has certainly received the worst side of this deal, particularly in the areas of agriculture, in energy, in trade and financial services, in the areas of investment, and that this will hurt Canadian jobs, particularly in the area of energy where Canadians have spent a lot of money developing hydroelectric power in this country. Now Americans can buy energy from us at the same price Canadians will have to pay for it at a time when the Americans have no investment in the industry at all. This is totally unfair for Canadians.
These people from British Columbia and Ontario petition Parliament to reject the Conservative trade deal.


Mr. Speaker, it is also my duty to present petitions signed by residents of certain communities in New Brunswick including Saint-Antoine, Saint-Paul, Notre-Dame, Sainte-Marie, Saint-Louis, Saint-Edouard, Cocagne, Sainte-Anne and Cote Sainte-Anne.
The petitioners deplore the dicision of the federal Department of Employment and Immigration to increase the qualifying period for unemployment insurance from 10 weeks to 16 weeks and they deplore the fact that the Government has failed to consider the situation in rural New Brunswick.
The petitioners therefore humbly call upon Parliament to restore justice to the situation by maintaining the 10-week qualifying period for the rural areas of New Brunswick.


Mr. Speaker, I also have a petition concerning the Mulroney Government's agreement with the United States. Again, the
petitioners are from New Brunswick, particularly Edmund-ston, Saint-Franqois, Saint-Hilaire and Saint-Jacques.
The petitioners humbly declare that the Mulroney Government has sold Canada out without obtaining anything in return; the jobs of thousands of Canadians are threatened; and the Conservative Government has made no provision for retraining assistance for Canadian workers.
They therefore call upon Parliament to censure the Government for signing the Mulroney-Reagan trade agreement.


Mr. Speaker, if Questions Nos. 318 and 340 could be made Orders for Returns, the returns would be tabled immediately.


Is it the pleasure of the House that Questions Nos. 318 and 340 be deemed to have been made Orders for Returns?


Agreed.


In the fiscal years ending March 31 (a) 1985 (ft) 1986 (c) 1987 (d) 1988, excluding statutory transfers to provinces and individuals, was money spent in the constituencies of (/') Brant (ii) Oxford (iii) ttaldimand-Norfolk (iv) Hamilton-Wentworth and, if so, in each case, by which departments and in what amounts?
Return tabled.


For (a) the period between September 4 and December 31, 1984 (b) 1985 (c) 1986 (d) 1987 (e) 1988 to date, have any departments or agencies of the government spent money or provided grants in York South-Weston and, if so, in each case (f) by which department or agency (ii) in what amounts (Hi) under which categories and programs was the money spent?
Return tabled.


Mr. Speaker, I request that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Shall the remaining questions be allowed to stand?


Agreed.
July 4, 1988

[DOT] (M30)


Mr. Speaker,
I have a question of privilege. First, I want to apprise the House of a word which was used by a Member of this House as recorded in Hansard at page 16989. In a response to a question put to my colleague, the Hon. Member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell (Mr. Boudria), the Hon. Member for Brampton-Georgetown (Mr. McDermid) made an intervention which I will quote:
Let's go outside the House and make that accusation, you scumbag, and you
are not even an honourable scumbag.
My friend from Glengarry-Prescott-Russell did not appreciate the accusation. I looked up the word in Beauchesne.


You had to look it up?


I had to look it up, yes, because that is not the kind of language I would use.


Oh, oh!


I looked it up in Webster's Dictionary. Webster says "Scum: impurities that rise to surface of liquid- worthless person-worst-"


Perhaps I can help the Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier (Mr. Gauthier). It is the opinion of the Chair that that word, if used, is unparliamentary. I don't need any more authority.


Mr. Speaker, on the same point of order-


Mr. Speaker, I want the Member to withdraw that word if it is unparliamentary. The Member knows, just as well as anyone in this House, that such allegations are uncalled for. The Hon. Member for Glengarry-Prescott- Russell usually backs up his statements in the House. I would like the Member for Brampton-Georgetown to withdraw that uncalled for comment.


Mr. Speaker, I abide by the decision of the Chair and I withdraw the remark.


Mr. Speaker, I have another question of privilege arising from Hansard for Thursday, June 30. On page 16991 in a question I put to the House regarding the-

Voluntary compliance. Consumer protection ...
and what the Government intended to do about bank charges. I asked the Government and I quote:
Privilege
Mr. Speaker, the Government proposes voluntary compliance, that is leaving it up to the banks. That is the position of the Government. On the other hand we have the New Democrats who said this morning the option was to nationalize the Toronto-Dominion Bank.
And then the Hon. Member for Nickel Belt (Mr. Rodriguez) said:
That is a lie. That is a lie.
Mr. Speaker, I do not appreciate being called a liar. I was at the press conference that morning when the Member for Nickel Belt said publicly to the media that one of the options being considered by the NDP was in fact to nationalize the banks.
I also object to the use of such unparliamentary words as "lie" in reference to a Member in this House.


Mr. Speaker, in light of the comments which the Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier (Mr. Gauthier) made when he put his question to the Minister of State for Finance (Mr. Hockin), I was properly incensed because the nationalization of the Toronto-Dominion Bank was not an option that I had put forward at the press conference.


Which bank was it?


I was asked by the chairman of the press conference whether 1 thought the Toronto-Dominion Bank should be nationalized because it stayed out of the agreement, not to go along with the Government's proposals. I said, "No, that was not an option at this time". If you look at the transcript of the press conference, that is exactly what you will see, Mr. Speaker. I was incensed by the preamble of the question put by the Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier when he said, as recorded at page 16991 of Hansard for Thursday, June 30:
On the other hand we have the New Democrats who said this morning the option was to nationalize the Toronto-Dominion Bank.
That is not true, Mr. Speaker. I know that it is not parliamentary to use the word "lie" in this House. Maybe it is too blunt a word to use to describe something that is not the truth. I will withdraw the word lie and say that the Member uttered a terminological inexactitude.


Sir Winston Churchill managed to withdraw by using that exact term and I suppose that is a precedent. In the opinion of the Chair, the Hon. Member for Nickel Belt (Mr. Rodriguez) has withdrawn and has done so in a Chur-chillian manner.


Oh, oh!

July 4, 1988
17000____________________________________
Time Allocation


That, in relation to Bill C-130, an Act to implement the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the United States of America, one further sitting day be allotted to the second reading stage of the Bill; and that, at Fifteen minutes before the expiry of the time provided for Government Business on the above mentioned sitting day, any proceedings before the House shall be interrupted, if required, for the purpose of this Order and, in turn, every question necessary in order to dispose of the said stage of the Bill shall be put forthwith and successively, without further debate or amendment.
He said: If you find the motion to be in order, I would like to make a few remarks.


Is it the pleasure of the House to accept the motion?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, in case there had been some request for debate, I prepared a few remarks that I would like to put on the record now.
I think it is fair to say that the subject of free trade has been in the public domain for some time. The issue has been studied by two parliamentary committees which held extensive hearings and travelled across Canada. I do not think in my meagre experience in this House there has been any issue that has so consistently dominated the period for Standing Order 21, the Question Period, Opposition Days, and speeches on various Bills. The issue of free trade has very definitely been in the public and in the parliamentary forum. I would say that this time allocation debate and motion is not about five days debate on Bill C-130, it is about the conclusion of the debate on the issue of free trade.
We on the government side, Madam Speaker, feel it is time to decide. I would point out that the by the time we are finished debating this Bill we will have had four long days- excessively long days because we are in a period of extended hours-and one short day. When we originally discussed this matter with counterparts opposite, the Opposition House Leaders, we offered three long days and two short days under the usual formula of time. We did that with a view to receiving a counter-offer. At no time did we receive a counter-offer which we could then mull over and come back to the House Leaders, our caucus and Cabinet with. No counter offer was made.


We are prepared to debate it all summer.


The early reply was procedural tactics which delayed proceedings on anything substantive.
The delays took place from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. every day and at three o'clock we were at Orders of the Day. Those delays in effect curtailed time on debate.
We have delivered on our promise. By the time we debate this today, and we intend to allocate tomorrow to this debate as well-


Your promise was not to bring in free trade. That was the Government's promise.


We have delivered on our promise.


The Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) was against it in 1983.


I see the ex-Leader of the NDP in the provincial legislature here today. I would hope that he would see fit to enter into the debate today and to participate during the time allocated.
Because my time is limited to 10 minutes and I may not have an opportunity to participate in the debate, I want to say something about the issue of free trade, if I may. There are two points that I want to make, and they are connected to why we have to decide this now. Our opponents are wrapping themselves in the flag and declaring that we have sold out our sovereignty. That is nonsense. Years after the creation of the European Common Market, there is still a Spain, a United Kingdom, a Germany and an Italy.
Those opposite call themselves nationalists and say that they are the only true Canadians. The Canadians who are going to build a stronger Canada, the Canadians who have some faith in the future, are the Canadians who are in favour of this Bill. We do not have to take a back seat to anyone when it comes to sovereignty because our record is full of initiatives which establish our sovereignty as a country.
I am talking about the multiculturalism Bill which is at report stage, I am talking about the Official Languages Act, Bill C-72. We announced a water policy. We have an Environmental Protection Act which was passed and given Royal Assent. The Atlantic Opportunities Agency, the Western Diversification Fund, the National Defence White Paper and the construction of an Arctic-class ice-breaker are on the record.
This Government awarded for the first time the contract to monitor our North Warning System to a Canadian firm. We took it away from the Americans who had it for 30 years under previous Liberal administrations. That is sovereignty. Sovereignty means being able to look after yourself. It means believing it and demonstrating it. Strong countries execute international agreements with other countries. Weak countries are afraid.
July 4, 1988

That brings me to the comments of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) who said that this agreement is a declaration of confidence in ourselves, of confidence in our ability to compete with the best in the world, of confidence in our ability to adapt in a tough and demanding international environment.
I would ask my friends what is the concept of Canada that they have. Big Canada welcomes the challenges and the opportunities of the free trade agreement. Small Canada is afraid. There is small Canada right over there. Big Canada says we can compete with the Americans and small Canada has a massive inferiority complex. Big Canada says we can coexist with our neighbours and small Canada wraps itself in the flag and says it is afraid. Big Canada looks to the free trade agreement as a basis for prosperity and little Canada has no alternative.
This is an agreement for the 21st century. It is time our industries started to grow from a Canadian base, to encourage new investment and jobs, to create a more stable and certain framework between these two great countries. The opposition Parties have battled against the concept of free trade from day one. Nothing we can do in this debate will change their minds. They represent the status quo. There they are, the Parties of the status quo, afraid of the 21st century, afraid to compete, afraid.
I say in closing that we intend to look to the future with Bill C-130. We intend to execute an agreement with our biggest trading partner which will mean prosperity, opportunity and jobs for Canadians. I suggest that we get on with the debate, close it off and send the matter to committee so that we can pass this Bill which will mean increased prosperity and opportunity for all Canadians.


Madam Speaker, we have all just returned from celebrating July 1. I think it is important to note that this is an important day in the history of Canada. We all recognize the disappearance of one of the most useful and valuable institutions that has helped build Canada over the last 121 years, and that is the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada. It has disappeared. It has been replaced by the Republican Party of the North.
We now have in Canada a Government that is headed by someone who ran a branch plant. He now has a branch plant Party. He wants to turn Canada into a branch plant country. The Progressive Conservative Party, the Party of John A. Macdonald, the Party that used to stand for Canadians' opportunity to make choices of their own, that used to use the instruments of Government as an effective way to build a nation, has now disappeared into the branch plant Republican Party of North America.
The Progressive Conservative Party which used to stand for the rights of Parliament, for the concept of open debate, for the concept of free dialogue and for the opportunity for Canadians to be heard, has also disappeared and been replaced with a Party that simply uses its majority in a tyrannical
Time Allocation
fashion to suppress debate, to close off dialogue and to ensure that Canadians will not have an opportunity to be heard. I am here partly to lament the passing of that institution, because it did represent something that was important. I disagreed with its policies, but at least it had Canadians roots and Canadian outlooks and it respected Parliament.
Now that that institution has disappeared and we have this Republican Party of the North appearing in the House, we have to recognize that the only way to deal with it is simply to say that it is an alien force with a series of alien ideas and a very alien attitude. The real victim is the place in which we stand today, our own Parliament. The Republican Party of the North does not recognize the value of a parliamentary system. It does not recognize the opportunity that Canadians must have for a proper debate.
The Minister of State (Mr. Lewis), the Government House Leader, has tried to perpetuate the myth that there have been all kinds of opportunity for debate. Let us look at the record. A committee in the summer of 1985 looked at two issues, the star wars issue and the concept of free trade. The recommendations it brought to the House were all rejected by the Government. Not one was adopted. The primary recommendation was that there should be a parliamentary debate in the House of Commons to establish a mandate for the Government to negotiate a trade deal in order to ensure that before the negotiations even began, there would be the opportunity for Canadians to know what they were getting into. That recommendation was rejected by the Government.
The first committee was thrown in the ashcan in typical fashion. The second committee to which the Government House Leader referred was established just before Christmas before it had the final agreement. It did not even have the details of the agreement. It did not know what kind of arrangements were going to be made.
We have to recognize that there is a major difference between the concept and the application. A real estate agent might say to me: "I would like to sell you a house," and I would say "I would like to buy a house". However, before I buy it, I look at the contract. I see what interest rates I am paying. I see what the terms of payment will be. I see what the obligations of the buyer and the seller will be. However, this Government does not want us to look at the contract. It does not want us to see what the specific obligations, rights and duties will be.
The Government is saying that this is just a debate about the concept of free trade, a debate about the concept of motherhood, fatherhood or sisterhood. The fact is that we have to see what the deal is. No Parliament has yet had the opportunity to look specifically at the deal that is now on the table.
The Government is giving us a couple of days to have a few rounds at it. The Minister for International Trade (Mr. Crosbie), Canada's answer to illiteracy, is now saying that he will not even allow the committee itself to cross the country to

July 4, 1988
Time Allocation
ensure that Canadians from New Brunswick to British Columbia, Canadians who will be directly affected, will have the opportunity to be heard.
When I say "the Republican Party of the North", there can be no clearer evidence of that than the total rejection of parliamentary procedure which we see in front of us today. No committee has had an opportunity to look at this agreement. Parliament is being short-changed in its attempts to debate this issue. Already we have the threat of the Government using its majority to simply ride roughshod over the right of Canadians to have their case heard and representations made on their behalf.
The Government is trying to defend the indefensible. It is trying to put forward a case that somehow or other a Bill that goes to the very heart of this country can be dismissed as a peripheral or marginal matter. We have spent more time in this House debating a sales tax on dog food than the Government will allow us to debate this country's future. That is the hard reality. We can cite Bill after Bill where this Parliament has had a fair opportunity to be heard. Members have had a fair opportunity to put forward the case for their constituents region by region, community by community. Yet an omnibus Bill which will affect 28 Acts of Parliament covering energy, investment, agriculture, natural resources, indeed every part of Canada, will not be debated because there is insufficient time for Members to make their case. That is an incredible example of the kind of arrogance and indifference the Government shows toward the parliamentary process.
There is no way it can be sugar coated. There is no way the Government can create the big lie that there has been a full opportunity to be heard. I defy any member of the Conservative Party to stand up and tell us how much time we have spent in debate on the hundreds of pages of the Bill now before this House. I will tell them. Less than two days. That is the sum total of time allocated for debate on a document affecting the future of this country.
I think members of the Conservative Party should be well aware of the latest poll published on Friday which shows that since they announced this initiative two and a half years ago, when they had 70 per cent in support, their support has dropped to a minority. With each week and month that goes by they lose support. This latest poll shows the opposition are now in the majority and that is why we have closure. They know the longer this Bill is debated, the more opportunity Canadians will have to see what is in it and the quicker the Conservative's case will be lost.
I remind the House that two and a half years ago, when the Government put forward its original proposal, we saw a cabinet document on the communications strategy. That document said the only way to still this deal is not to tell Canadians what is in it. The only way Conservatives could make sure of their case was to hide the real implications.


Produce the document.


I have the document and I will table it. I will be glad to table it. I hope the Hon. Member for Burlington (Mr. Kempling) will read it. The document said that the more Canadians know about the deal, the more opposition there will be. They were right.
The Government is using the traditions of this House in its attempt to sell a bad deal which it knows cannot stand up to the light of public exposure. We know once this Bill is in committee there will be a further effort to steamroll over the rights of Parliament and deny Canadians the right to be heard. We have seen it before in committee and we will see it again.
We say regardless of the merits of the issue, which must be debated, what must be respected are the rights of this institution. Yet the Conservative Party of Canada is trampling on those rights. That is why there is no longer a Progressive Conservative Party. They are acting as the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) has always acted, as a branch plant of the U.S. Republican Party.


Madam Speaker, my grandfather, when he was 22, I think, joined the Conservative Party because he saw it then as a party of decency and honesty, a party that would stand up for the rights of this country. He saw it as a Party that believed in the independence of this country, one that could make its way in this world on its own, with pride, self respect and a sense of confidence. If he were alive today this would be a tragic day for him.
To try to convince me to become a Conservative, he looked at the pipeline debate in 1956 and the Liberal Party. He said that is the kind of Party that will do this sort of thing to this country. It will sell us out to the Americans; it will run roughshod over the rights of Parliament. The Conservative Party, he said to me, and I remember it very clearly, would never do that to the rights of Parliament and the rights of the people of Canada. Yet here today we have the final act in a shameful set of episodes which have marked this Bill's passage, this accord's development, this concept's progress throughout the last two and a half to three years. It is shameful.
The Government is making a complete U-turn with respect to the commitments it made before the election. It is shamefully ignoring the recommendations of committees that looked at this issue in detail. It is shamefully and desperately trying to keep every possible piece of information hidden from the public. It is shamefully running roughshod over the rules of Parliament to extend this sitting just so it can please its friends in Washington.


Its bosses.


Perhaps, but I think the Conservatives have taken the position they have not because they have been ordered to, but because they have lost their confidence in this
July 4, 1988

country. Why? For reasons that, fortunately, the opposition Parties have not been able to follow along with.
We see a shameful, disgraceful performance which has wiped out, at each stage throughout this discussion, the democratic rights of the people of Canada. This is the most anti-democratic process which I, as an economic historian, have seen take place in this country since it was formed 121 years ago. This anti-democratic process now meets its culmination in the decision that, after two and one half days of debate on the 27 different Bills which are amended by this piece of legislation, the Government has decided it has had enough.
1 can understand why the Government has had enough, because it is losing the debate and being hurt by it. The consequence, as seen in the polls, is that the overwhelming position of support with which the Government started out has shrunk to a minority of Canadians, which minority, I predict, will shrink further and further as people find out more and more about the ridiculous sell-out which the Government is now forced into by this motion. We cannot stop it. You cannot stop a raging mad elephant when it is charging.
We must recognize, however, that this is what is behind the laugh. The Government decided it would try the Minister for International Trade (Mr. Crosbie), that he would get the country laughing so much that it would forget what was happening to it, that the country would laugh itself into dependence, laugh itself into becoming a colony. It did not work. Instead, I predict that the Minister will laugh himself into political oblivion with statements such as that he had not even read what he was responsible for trying to tell the nation as being for its very best, for its very future.
It is a sad sell-out, a sell-out which cannot be defended by the weak and ridiculous arguments of the Deputy House Leader who has tried to tell us a set of things, only one of which is true. He said that big Canada is in favour of this Bill and small Canada is against it. Well, I am pleased and proud to be able to speak for the small people of this country, for the small towns, and for the small cities. These are the people who stand for the true values of this country and have stood for them since Borden had to fight Laurier. They have stood for them throughout the course of our history and will stand for them in the future. This fight is not finished. This fight is just moving into its next phase and it will ultimately demolish the Government rather than demolishing this country.


Madam Speaker, unfortunately, in opening this debate or sharing my comments with you, 1 must, like you and, I assume, all the other persons present here today, conclude that the reaction of our opponents, the opponents of the Free Trade Agreement and of prosperity for Canada, has not been very original and has provided few surprises today. I cannot say we are really
Time Allocation
surprised by what we have just heard from the representative of the Liberal Party of Canada, and even less by what the New Democratic Party's representative has said. There was very little originality in their statements.

I was a bit amused by the comments of my two colleagues who preceded me. The Member from the Liberal Party was full of secret documents. For a while I thought he would get out his secret decoder ring and give us an idea of what is really in those documents. As for the NDP, I guess the attitude has not changed. The Member only repeated today what they said from the very beginning, that they would fight this concept in any way imaginable and would use every tactic in the book to do so. That is what the NDP is on the record as saying, so this was really no surprise today.
When my hon. colleague, the Deputy House Leader, said that those who think we should have a small Canada are opposed to the trade agreement, he was referring to people like those within the Liberal and New Democratic Parties who would rather have a small Canada, a Canada which has no ambition and which does not want to prosper. That, and nothing else, is what he was referring to. We very proudly represent in this House all Canadians from all parts of Canada.

Madam Speaker, to understand fully the meaning of our debate, I think it would be worth taking at least a few minutes to see exactly what is involved, and it cannot be pointed out too often that Canada is an exporting country. In referring to this debate and the Free Trade Agreement, this basic fact must be borne in mind. Canada is probably the country whose gross domestic product depends most on its exports. That means Canada is probably the country that depends most on its exports to put bread and butter on the table. That, in essence, is Canada. And everyone agrees that this is so; even my colleagues in the federal Liberal Party and my colleague in the New Democratic Party agree. The fact is that more than one of every three jobs in Canada depends on exports.
Plainly the issue we are debating today is by no means an insignificant one for us, for our country. That is clear. If more than one Canadian in three depends on exports for their jobs, then this question is of the utmost importance. It is a question of the utmost importance when you look at our relations with the United States, because 80 per cent of our exports go to the United States. Around 23 per cent of our gross domestic product here in Canada depends on our trade with the United States. That is what we are talking about today. So it is a question of the utmost importance.
Madam Speaker, the three federal political Parties agree on the fact that Canada is an exporting country, and that it must remain an exporting country. The divergence of opinion comes when we discuss the means that must be employed to try to maintain our existing export capacity.

July 4, 1988
Time Allocation
In recent years there has been an important change of perspective, I think, a change that must be taken into account and that must be explained more clearly, so that the people of Canada can understand their government's motivation. I am referring here to our attitude, if you like, our political will, our approach to trade, from the Second World War to roughly the 1980s. During that period, that is to say since World War II, there has been an intensification of the economies of Canada and the United States, which was accelerated by the war effort.
From that time to the 1980s, Canada's perspective on its trade relations was always more or less the same. Our intention, our will, were always directed toward being able to diversify our trade relations, because we realized that we were very dependent on a single market, that of the United States. To give you an idea of the form this took, in 1960 Prime Minister Diefenbaker wanted to diversify our trade relations toward Great Britain, arguing that we should not put all our eggs in one basket. That was the political thinking of the day. In 1976, the Trudeau government signed a general agreement with the European Economic Community, with about the same aim in view as Mr. Diefenbaker had had: to diversify our trade relations toward partners other than the United States, because we were largely dependent, and at the time thought to be too dependent, on that one market.
In 1980 the so-called third option was formulated, that is to say, an attempt to step up trade relations, this time with the developing countries, with, as always, the additional objective of making ourselves less dependent on the American market.
Madam Speaker, the great change occurred in the early years of this decade, particularly after the recession. The approach changed, and instead of having a continental vision of its trade, Canada has slowly but surely developed a more global vision of its policy and international trade.
The first sign of change occurred in 1982, when a Senate Committee, mandated in 1974 to study our relations with the United States, published a report which I can only assume my Liberal colleagues know well, since it was they who published it in 1982. This report recommended that the government of the day sign a free trade agreement with the United States.
So this is not a new proposal. And when my colleague from Winnipeg tells us that he has not studied the report, and that this is a question that has simply appeared from nowhere, and that we are going into it with our eyes closed-well, then I think there is quite a gap between that and the facts, Madam Speaker. Already in 1982 there was a Senate Committee, chaired by a Liberal Senator, recommending unanimously that we sign a free trade agreement with the United States.
And what did the Liberal government of the day do? In 1983 it issued a discussion paper on that very topic, Canada's trade relations. Again in 1983, in one of its Speeches from the Throne, the Liberal government of the day announced its intention of undertaking sectoral negatiations, Madam
Speaker. What a surprise! Already, in 1983-wait for it, I'm getting there-


Oh, oh!


-I'm getting there. Already, in 1983, Madam Speaker, let's see what came of those sectoral negotiations, since my Liberal friends are wondering.
In a speech made in Washington on October 11, 1985, a speech given by none other than the Honourable Marc Lalonde, a Cabinet Minister in the same Liberal government I referred to a minute ago, Mr. Lalonde explained why the sectoral negotiations had not been successful: First of all he explained in his speech, which I have here, Madam Speaker, that because of the very nature of the negotiations, it was very difficult to reach an agreement, because one sector was connected to the next. The second reason, he said, was that basically the negotiations had never really got off the ground. This second reason reflects the fact that there was little political will on either side of the border in favour of a deal of this kind. So those were the reasons given by Marc Lalonde, Minister of Finance at the time, to explain why the federal Liberals' initiative had failed.
Next stage: in 1985, the Prime Minister and the President of the United States met at the Irish Summit and mandated their respective Trade Ministers to undertake consultations on the possibility of reaching an agreement.
At that point, Canada's Minister of International Trade did an extensive tour throughout the country to find out from business people and all the other interested groups what they thought about free trade and any other proposals they wanted to discuss. In 1985, Madam Speaker! In the summer of 1985, an initial Parliamentary Committee was set up to study the question. In the fall of 1985, more presicely in the month of September, that Parliamentary Committee submitted its report, recommending the signing of the free trade agreement. The two Ministers, American and Canadian, submitted their reports to their respective Heads of Government, the Prime Minister and the President, recommending that they undertake negotiations with a view to signing a free trade agreement. But the final touch was undoubtedly the publication of the Macdonald Commission report, on September 5, 1985. This Commission was chaired by a former Liberal Finance Minister, Donald Macdonald, who recommended unequivocally that the Canadian government undertake negotiations to reach an agreement on free trade with the United States.
I will point out in passing that Mr. Macdonald, your former Liberal Minister of Finance, today supports the free trade agreement that we are recommending to the country.
So no one can say now that this came out of nowhere. That's crazy! It's poking fun at the people of Canada. Basically that's what you're doing today. You're making fun of the people of Canada and denying they have any brains, when you try to make out that they haven't been consulted about this. But this isn't the first time, either.
July 4, 1988

Madam Speaker, our colleagues tell us today that they haven't been consulted and so on. Fine. Then can the Leader of the Liberal Party of Canada (Mr. Turner) tell us to what extent he had consulted the people of Canada when he got up in this House the day the Agreement was signed to say he would tear it up? An Agreement supported by Mr. Bourassa, Premier of Quebec, Mr. McKenna, Premier of New Brunswick, Mr. Parizeau of Quebec, the Consumers' Association of Canada?
Madam Speaker, ordinary common sense means that th