Mr. Speaker, thousands of Canadians suffer health problems because of a distinct sensitivity to food additives, chemicals, and other synthetic substances. Only recently has this been recognized as a physical illness. For example, last year the Ontario Medical Association called on Governments to increase research on causes, effects and treatment of environmental sensitivity, also called the 20th century disease.
Individuals, organizations, and even the Human Rights Commissioner have asked the Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Epp) to take action on this serious health problem. Instead of action he has only sympathy. We urge him to recognize the existence of this illness, to instruct his Department to become competent in the field, to launch a campaign to educate health professionals, and to consult with those who suffer from environmental sensitivity. In short, we urge him to stop sympathizing and start acting.
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, tomorrow, September 22, 1988, will be a day of significance in Edmonton. At noon we will witness the official opening of Canada Place in Edmonton. The building is a blend of award winning architectural design, leadership by Trizec Corporation, construction by Ellis-Don, and dedication and work by 1,500 Edmontonians.
This structure will house 29 federal government Departments, the most important being the head office of the Western Diversification Office, as well as 3,200 employees. Canada Place also has shops, a conference room, a National Film Board theatre, fountains, restaurants, and day care facilities. The downtown core will be revitalized with the addition of 1,000 parking stalls which are desperately needed by the Convention Centre.
This building represents a new start; a new era of reliance on the private sector to do what it does best; a new era of cooperation between government and industry; a new method of building financing at a time when government dollars were tight and construction jobs were desperately needed. The presence of the federal Government in Edmonton will now be fully recognized with the magnificent $150 million Canada Place. It is a beautiful building for a beautiful city which I am proud to represent.
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, women have long fought for recognition of their right to a life of dignity, respect, and justice. Unfortunately this struggle is still to be fought in the court system of this country.
Violence is an unacceptable social behaviour in our society, yet when it is committed against women and their children, new standards seem to apply. A woman's behaviour is examined as if her words or actions could justify being beaten, pushed, kicked or verbally abused. Light sentences, if any, are handed out to men considered to be respected members of the community. Importance is given to keeping a family together even though the violence usually escalates.
The Kirby Inwood trial was unfortunately an example of the treatment of women by our justice system. For brutally beating his son and wife this man was given 30 days and three years probation. The pain and fear he inflicted on his family will certainly be with them for many years. Their suffering must start to take priority in our justice system.

September 21, 1988


Mr. Speaker, recently in London the Vice Squad arrested 42 homosexual men for committing indecent acts in public washrooms in two parks and a shopping plaza. 1 commend the press and the police for withholding the names of these individuals until they have had their day in court. However, I believe it is absolutely imperative that, upon conviction, for the protection of society, these names be released.
In many instances we have repeat offenders who get off with either a suspended sentence or a small fine. I think it is very important that society be protected and these names be publicized.


Mr. Speaker, the evidence is out and it is conclusive: Tory Bill C-22 is causing increases in the cost of prescription drugs.


Nonsense!


The evidence was adduced by the Senate Committee reviewing Bill C-22, and more particularly Bill S-15. The committee report said:
Most of the evidence indicates that in the past year drug prices have increased at rates in excess of the rate of increase in the Consumer Price Index.
Representatives of Green Shield Prepaid Services Inc. (Green Shield), a large Ontario-based prescription drug plan, told the Committee that for the period from January 1, 1987 to January 1, 1988 the average ingredient cost of the prescriptions filled under its plans increased by 12.6 per cent.
It is clear that the Tory promise to maintain increases in the price of drugs below the CPI was wrong. Drug prices are going up. The Tories have breached their commitment to the Canadian people and I tell them that this ought to be rescinded and a new Act put in place in order to protect senior citizens and other consumers all across the country.


Mr. Speaker, time is definitely not on the side of our Hong Kong veterans. Many did not make it through the brutal incarceration inflicted upon them by the enemy. Many more who managed to survive have lived diminished lives as a result. Today there are fewer than
700 survivors, yet a major crime against those veterans has not been redressed.
The issue of compensation has been raised on the floor of the British House of Commons, the U.S. Senate, and the UN. The time is right for our Government to take forceful action. Japan owes our Hong Kong vets equitable compensation for the slave labour, starvation, beatings, and unsanitary living conditions it forced on our boys.
This Government must do everything in its power to ensure fair compensation is paid by the Japanese Government without further delay. In this case time really is of the essence.


Mr. Speaker, the community of Bell Island was rejected by this Conservative Government as a site for a federal penitentiary, despite meeting the criteria and having special economic needs. Hot on the heels of this decision a company called Canadian Ecology Ltd. offered to use the community as a dump for industrial waste. "The abandoned mines would be perfect to store industrial waste", they said. "We would offer 100 jobs", they said. "It would be perfectly safe", they said.
They thought that the people of Bell Island were desperate and had no choice. Well, the people of Bell Island said no, and 2,401 of about 2,800 adults signed a petition opposing this use and they organized meetings against it. Together they said no to being a dumping ground for the waste of an industrial society that will not let them participate in a meaningful way.
I congratulate and support their opposition to this project and congratulate them on their victory in having it stopped. I will continue to work with and fight for the people of Bell Island in their effort to achieve real economic development. Working together, the people of Bell Island have stopped this project. Working together, we will fight to ensure Bell Islanders are given real alternatives to unemployment and lack of opportunity.


Mr. Speaker, the value of a nation's currency in the international market place is very much a measure of the world's confidence in the ability of that country to govern itself effectively and pursue sensible economic and social policy.
September 21, 1988

This is reflected in the recent behaviour of the Canadian dollar. When the polls were showing the possibility of a Turner-Broadbent win in the next election and the consequent ripping up of the free trade agreement, our dollar plunged to 80.63 cents U.S.
Now the polls indicate a clear-cut victory for the Conservatives, confidence has been restored, and our dollar stands at over 82 cents.
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, the post office in Sydney is one of the most profitable in the country. Labour costs as a percentage of total revenues are 12.5 per cent of every dollar earned. If you exclude income from postage meters, priority post, and postal boxes, labour costs are still a very reasonable 45.8 per cent of every dollar earned.
Revenue projections for the current year are up by over $109,000 to $2,312,322. The people of Sydney have demonstrated their support for the Canada Post outlet by their utilization of this Canada Post outlet in the downtown area.
Yet despite all this good economic news, the Government through the Corporation is closing the downtown outlet and moving it to a low traffic area. The Government, with no regard for the workers, has plans to sell the Sydney post office to one of its corporate friends who will then reap the benefits of this very profitable operation.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to call the attention of the House to an agreement between Atomic Energy of Canada Limited and the office of Atomic Energy for Peace in Thailand. This has to do with technology transfer, particularly the transfer of food irradiation technology.
Two things about the agreement concern me, Mr. Speaker. The first is that part of the contract refers to the obtaining of Canadian governmental regulatory approval for the sale of three irradiated Thai foods in Canada, apparently papaya, mangos, and shrimp. The second aspect of the agreement, Article 6, provides that AECL will be compelled to take back any of the spent Cobalt 60.
Many times in this House I have said the Government's eagerness to approve food irradiation in this country and AECL's eagerness to prove that it has solved the nuclear waste problem have been related more to global marketing strategy vis-a-vis food irradiation than to anything else. I think we see here in this agreement between Canada and Thailand the proof of that claim.
I would ask the Government to explain why it is setting Canada up to being a nuclear waste depository for the entire world.
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, more and more, Canadians choose the team that will have to govern in the coming years, which will be a time of change. The Constitutional Agreement, co-operation among the provinces, the quality of social programs, our control over the economy, our action on the deficit and our job creation are acknowledged and Canadians are getting ready to say yes to the team made up of people like Wilson, de Cotret, Crosbie and Mulroney. Canadians want to have nothing to do with the bounty hunters and the rats. Nor will Canadians want to have anything to do with the eccentric and marginal world of Broadbent-they never have!


Mr. Speaker, our Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) and the Ministers of this Government want all Canadians to be treated fairly. The rent charged RCMP and public servants who are living in government-owned houses in Banff and Lake Louise is excessive and out of line with rents charged in all other national parks and in all towns in Alberta of similar size.
Section 128 of the Treasury Board manual states:
The base shelter shall be reduced by 25 per cent where there is imposed occupancy.
The occupancy of these houses is imposed. There is no other available accommodation. They either live in these houses or they don't work. And the bureaucrats by placing a rigid meaning on the word "imposed" have been chiselling these dedicated police and workers. If we want to appear to be fair these excessive rents should be reduced immediately by 25 per cent.

September 21, 1988
Oral Questions AGRICULTURE


Mr. Speaker, canola is a triumph of Canadian agricultural research and technological development. However, today the Canadian canola industry is being destroyed by the United States Export Enhancement Program. Sales are down by 15 per cent in just the first six months of this year. This represents a loss of income of $150 million to Canadian agriculture producers, stolen away by the U.S. export subsidy programs. This is a direct violation of the Prime Minister's (Mr. Mulroney) trade deal with the United States.
The United States undertook in that agreement to take into account Canada's interests in the use of the Export Enhancement Program. This the Americans are not doing. Likewise they are violating the "standstill provision" of the agreement.
The viability of the Canadian Canola industry is at stake in this matter. 1 call on the Government to make the United States Government live up to the terms of the agreement.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday in Toronto the Prime Minister accused others of "grubby little scenarios". I want to tell him that he is the master architect of grubby little scenarios.
The Prime Minister spent four years gutting the Department of the Environment. Now he pretends to have a new national vision for the environment.
He said he wouldn't raise taxes by one cent and during the past four years he has imposed the heaviest tax burden in history on Canadians to the amount of $26 billion.
He talked about a commitment to fiscal responsibility-


I do hesitate to interrupt the right hon. gentleman but 1 think the preamble may be going on a bit too long. I ask the Leader of the Opposition to put his question.


Mr. Speaker, I am leading up to a question for the Prime Minister.


Oh, oh!


And to give him time to prepare, I am setting out his grubby little scenario.


Oh, oh!


He said he was going to have fiscal responsibility, paraded his Minister of Finance around, and dished out millions of dollars as a pre-election slush fund for the Conservative Party. Leading to the question, Mr. Speaker, he said he was against-


Oh, oh!


I would ask the right hon. gentleman to put his question.


1 know you understand the sequence of this question, Mr. Speaker. He said he was against a free trade deal with the United States and yet he signed a deal selling out our country.
Why did he negotiate a comprehensive trade deal with the United States after he told Canadians he was against any such deal? Will the Prime Minister explain to the country that grubby little scenario?


Mr. Speaker, my right hon. friend began with some complaints about the Government's environmental record. The environmental record involved the St. Lawrence River clean-up of $110 million; the Halifax Harbour clean-up; the Acid Rain Program of $150 million for smelter modernization; federal-provincial Accords on sulphur dioxide emissions with a $350 million federal contribution; the Canadian Environmental Protection Act-the first environmental Act of any substance that was passed by this Chamber in a good number of years; the Niagara River pollution cleanup; the Environmental Conference in June-


Window dressing.


My hon. friend from N.D.G. says window dressing, and a lot of rhetoric.


A lot of baloney.


How would he have qualified-


Smoke and mirrors.


I am trying to answer my hon. friend, Mr. Speaker. Is he opposed to South Moresby, to the cleanup of the St. Lawrence River, the Halifax Harbour, or Hamilton Harbour? He may be opposed to these in the House of Commons but he should not go across the country saying that he is opposed to these very, very appropriate environmental plans for the people of Canada.
September 21, 1988


Mr. Speaker, I think the country deserves to know the truth about the last-minute deathbed conversion of the Prime Minister on the environment. I will concede one thing to him. He was right yesterday when he said in Toronto that Canadians will judge him on his record of free trade.


Hear, hear!


The Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition has the floor.


Mr. Speaker, 1 just hope that the flapping of the fins of the trained seals will not be taken off my time.


Oh, oh!


Canadians will judge whether this Prime Minister can be trusted. Does the Prime Minister deny that he said: "Free trade with the United States is like sleeping with an elephant"? Does he deny that he said: "Canadian plants would not be able to compete"? Does the Prime Minister deny that he said: "Canadians rejected free trade in 1911, they would do so again"? Does the Prime Minister deny that he said: "Free trade? It affects our sovereignty and I will have none of it"? How does the Prime Minister square what he said with what he has done to Canada in selling us out?


Mr. Speaker, does the Leader of the Opposition deny that he said that he would reduce the federal deficit by 50 per cent in his first term of office, and that he has spent four years as the Leader of the Opposition spending money that he and the Canadian people do not have?
This is going to be good. The Leader of the Opposition is getting coached by the Member from Winnipeg. This is going to be something to behold.
Our commitment was to the creation of jobs, new wealth and new prosperity for Canada. We said we would create new jobs. Canadians have created 1.3 million new jobs, bringing about a new degree of prosperity.
We said we would bring about new unity for Canada and we have unified Canada as never before. That is the commitment of a great national Party, and we have delivered on both of those fundamentals.


Mr. Speaker, the right hon. gentleman mentioned the Member for Winnipeg-Fort
Oral Questions
Garry who has calculated that the grand total of all spending announcements, for the period May 30 to September 13 of this year, from the Conservative slush fund is $12,248 billion. That is what this Government has spent in the last three months, $12 billion dollars.


Table it.


I will be glad to table it. [Translation]


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister did not answer the question, namely, which of his statements can be relied on and which cannot be believed. Does the Prime Minister deny having said that he was not in favour of a "comprehensive" trade agreement with the United States, but that he was for negotiating sector-based agreements instead? Does he deny having said that free trade would affect our sovereignty and that he would have none of it? Does he deny having said that U.S. laws providing for trade sanctions could not apply to Canada, and that's all there was to it? Why did the Prime Minister deceive Canadians on such a vital matter for the future of our country? Why should his statements be trusted in the next election campaign?


Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition is now apparently being guided in regard to his calculations by the Member from Winnipeg. We should then find out what the objections are.
Is the objection to spending for the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency? Is the objection to spending for western diversification? Is the objection to spending for Hibernia, the development in offshore Newfoundland and Labrador? Is the objection to the deficiency payment for Canadian farmers, the largest deficiency payment? Where do the Liberals object? You can't have it both ways. You can't be in favour of farmers and against deficiency payments.


Is it fiscal responsibility to portion out $12 billion in the last four months?


My hon. friend is talking about fiscal responsibility. We will find out what he is against.

He asks me about Quebec and free trade. Premier Bourassa clearly said that Quebec's best interests are served by a free trade treaty. Jacques Parizeau is in favour of free trade. And more recently, a great French Canadian, Robert Campeau, came out in favour of free trade.

September 21, 1988
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. The Government sold what is now Route Canada to three private businessmen for $29 million when the real property alone is worth well over $80 million. This allowed the businessmen, of course, to cream off millions of dollars to buy another private trucking company in the United States. It allowed the private businessmen to cream away $50 million from the Canadian taxpayers. It then allowed the private businessmen, once they had the American company, to close Route Canada, the Canadian company, throwing 2,500 men out of work, including 300 truckers who are owed by that company an average of $13,000 and cannot pay for their rigs. Now that the Government has created this mess, what will it do for the workers?


Mr. Speaker, 1 said yesterday exactly what I will say today. We know that there was a choice to be made in 1986. It is obvious that the Liberal Party would have preferred to close the shop in 1986. That is what we hear today and what we heard yesterday.
What we proposed was to continue the operation of the company by selling the company to the private sector. Today my friend is describing some scenario without any legal consideration. We are waiting, as I said yesterday and I repeat today, to see the legal picture of Route Canada and what will be proposed by the company. I challenge my hon. friend to say that the company will not, for example, reorganize and do something other than what he described to the House of Commons.
I repeat what I said yesterday and what I told the contractors yesterday afternoon. There is a legal consideration here and we cannot stand aside from the legal consideration. I hope that my friend does not propose that I intervene for the contractors without any legal consideration involved at the present time.


Mr. Speaker, the Government has only ever been interested in one thing. Once it decided that Transport Route Canada was to close, the only thing it was interested in was laundering the bad news through the private sector so it would not have to give it out itself. For that the Government paid over $50 million in valued land belonging to the people of Canada.
What is the Government going to do? Why is it ruining people's lives just to try to clean up its own sordid political messes? Does the Minister want to get into the trucking business? Here are the keys, because one of the truckers told me he can't make the payments on his rig because of what this Government has done.


Mr. Speaker, obviously, anyone could fall into the trap set by the Hon. Member.
Mr. Speaker, the fact remains that in 1986, the Liberal Party would have closed the company, which is hardly consistent with what Liberal policy has been in the transport sector, since for the past four years, it has been asking the Government to support all companies that are losing money, and today, after the Government sold the company to the private sector and 2,700 jobs were maintained for two years-I repeat, it is very likely that various scenarios will be suggested, since they are already prepared to table requests for millions of dollars.
1 repeat what I said yesterday. Canadians remember 1982, when that Party put $34 million in Maislin, and the following year, the whole business was bankrupt, everybody lost his job, and the Liberal Party had spent another $34 million. They did that kind of thing for a long time, but I think today, Canadians know the score.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Canada has been treated to the spectacle of a Minister of the Environment who chases ambulances to the scene of an environmental disaster and then pops up with a press kit. Well, Canadians are really concerned about preventing pollution in the environment.
What does the Government plan to do-and what is it doing-about a really serious environmental problem, namely, dioxins in our food because there are dioxins in the environment? There is a report of the Minister's expert advisory committee on dioxins from 1983. The Liberals slept on it for a year. This Government has had four years. What is the Government doing to act on these recommendations which say we ought to eliminate the sources which put dioxins into the environment? It has been four years and dioxins are not yet even on the toxic substances list and cannot be regulated. What is the Government doing about the serious environmental problem of pollution besides just reacting to the crisis after it has been discovered?


Mr. Speaker, I just want to remind my hon. colleague, in the absence of the Minister of National Health and Welfare who is absent on government business today, that the Minister did reply to that question yesterday. So did the Minister of the Environment, if my memory serves me right. I would direct my hon. colleague to page 19440 of Hansard. I think the answer is pretty clear.
September 21, 1988


Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Minister of the Environment misled the House in answering my question on precisely this matter.


Order!


I am sure the Hon. Member would not have meant that the Hon. Minister was intentionally misleading, and I would expect she would make that clear in the remainder of her question.


Mr. Speaker, 1 repeat, the Minister of the Environment yesterday misled the House-


Out!


-in answering my question, namely-


Order!


-he stated that through the Canadian-


Out!


I would ask the Hon. Member to make it clear to the Minister and to the House that she is not suggesting the Minister intentionally misled the House.


Mr. Speaker, 1 didn't say intentionally. 1 simply said "misled".


Order!


Shame!


Mr. Speaker, the Minister's reply referred to "the Canadian Environmental Protection Act which, among other things, manages toxic chemicals, including dioxins, through their full life cycle-" I have a copy of the Act and dioxins are not on this list. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister why dioxins are not on the list of toxic substances? They were certainly not put there by the Liberals. They ignored the problem for long enough. Why has this Government not put them there? And how is the Government going to deal with the serious problem of dioxins in the environment and, therefore, in the food supply, when it has not even begun to put them on the toxic substances list?


Mr. Speaker, again, with respect to the question of food, since the Hon. Member did refer to that, 1 refer to the answer of my colleague, the Minister of National Health and Welfare, who
Oral Questions
said yesterday, and 1 quote particularly his last paragraph in Hansard at page 19440:
I want to reassure the Member and the House that the Government is not looking at changing regulations in order to fit the new requirement whereby trace amounts of dioxins are found under these sources but rather to eliminate dioxins, and that remains our purpose.
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, do we need a crisis like the one at Saint-Basile-le-Grand for every toxic substance? What is the Government going to do to eliminate these very hazardous substances from the environment, when the substance is not mentioned on the list? Shouldn't we start with the list and then set up a program to eliminate the substance? Do we have to wait until the next crisis?


Mr. Speaker, I think that for once I agree with the Hon. Member. Obviously, no one sees a crisis as a way to solve the problem, if there is one, Mr. Speaker. I think that using the example of Saint-Basile-le-Grand to show that we only act when there is a crisis, is totally wrong.
I would like to refer to Hansard at page 19439, where the Minister of the Environment also said, although the Hon. Member omitted this passage in her quote:

In addition to that we have greatly tightened the rules and regulations surrounding the Canada-U.S. Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement. To boot, we have achieved, for the first time in the history of the country, a four-jurisdiction agreement on stemming the flow of industrial chemicals into the Niagara River by 50 per cent by 1996. Those are all initiatives of the Government of Canada on the very subject which the Hon. Member has mentioned.
And there are a lot more initiatives of this Government on the environment issue.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. Yesterday, the Minister met the truckers and promised they would get an answer today about their operating licences. The Minister has the authority to issue these licences, which means that the truckers would be able to continue their business and thus meet their financial obligations.

September 21, 1988
Oral Questions
The truckers were back this morning, and unless the Minister takes action, they will not only be underfoot but literally on foot and out of work!
Has the Minister acted on the request of the truckers; and if not, when will he do so?


Mr. Speaker, yesterday, I said we would look at the Transportation Act to determine what our responsibilities and what our options are.
It is a fact, and the Hon. Member for Shefford ought to know, that the provinces have jurisdiction over this area, and I would have to suspend the provisions of the Transportation Act in order to-In other words, I would have to forget about provincial jurisdiction to be able to intervene. We are trying to do what we can, and we will try to get in touch with the provincial Governments to find out exactly what their position is. Obviously, we cannot give an answer today.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the truckers are not at all pleased with this answer.


Certainly not!


Mr. Speaker, will the Minister also ensure that the thousands of dollars owed these independent truckers and other workers by Transport Route Canada Inc. will be paid, and will he prevent Transport Route Canada Inc. from selling off its assets before all its accounts with the independent truckers and other workers are paid up? Before letting this company sell off its assets, we must make sure its accounts are settled. Will the Minister take action? Will the Minister be able to do what is necessary?


Mr. Speaker, if the Hon. Member will stop playing politics he knows perfectly well that in the case of a private company, the Minister of Transport has no authority to force that company to make payments on which it is in arrears, especially since the company has not filed for bankruptcy. The company has given no notice whatsoever. I repeat what I said earlier and that is that the Liberal Party has always ignored the legal implications and considerations governing the private sector, and just look at the disaster we had in 1984!


Mr. Speaker, I would like to get some answers from the Minister in charge of
privatization instead of from people who do not know anything about what is going on in transport. I want to raise the matter of the sale of CN Route to Route Canada. The Cabinet authorized this swindle of taxpayers, more than 2,000 employees, and about 350 truckers.
I will direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister. These truckers are owed some $4 million in unpaid fees and freight rates from Route Canada and they cannot continue to operate. These truckers do not have their licence plates, and the Highway Traffic Board permits as well as the licence fees and the insurance are in the hands of Route Canada.
Would the Minister now intervene and request the provincial highway traffic boards to cancel all the permits of Route Canada and allow them to be taken up by these independent truckers?


Mr. Speaker, of course my friend is a specialist in transport. I understand why Canadians have always kept that expertise on that side of the House of Commons.


Hear, hear!


Route Canada is a company which is officially in operation in this country. As long this company is legally in operation we do not have the ability to cancel its permits. It is a company which operates officially in this country.


Mr. Speaker, they just do not care what they have done to people with privatization.


Would the Prime Minister be good enough to use his good offices to ensure that the employees and the truck operators under Route Canada be guaranteed first call on any cash or assets of Route Canada, and then order and set up a judicial inquiry into the sale and the operations of Route Canada since it was taken over?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister-


Oh, oh!


I know the Liberals do not view this as a serious matter but I am trying to answer a serious question from the NDP.


We were there to meet with them. Were you, Brian?


He was at the Empire Club.


Tell us about your trucking experience.


The Right Hon. Prime Minister.
September 21, 1988


Mr. Speaker, I thank you. 1 am trying to answer a serious question from my friend in the NDP and we are both being obstructed by the Liberals who apparently care very little about it.
My hon. friend asks a very legitimate question. The distinguished Minister of Transport met yesterday with representatives of the truckers. He has undertaken to initiate the necessary inquiries. He is clearly looking for an appropriate and helpful solution. I know that in that process he will bear in mind the suggestions made by the distinguished Member from Regina whose expertise is widely noted in this area.


You just got him defeated. He's washed up.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Deputy Prime Minister. Many of us are expecting an election in the not too distant future and we have heard from the Canadian Community Newspapers Association that the Chief Electoral Officer might be planning to reduce the number of publications in which he puts the advertising for the upcoming election, and resort mainly to the daily newspapers.
In that the local papers are important in rural communities, and many of them are delivered free of charge to every household, some of which may not receive dailies, can the Minister request the Chief Electoral Officer to review this decision and, hopefully, change it?


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the Hon. Member for that question. I have received a number of representations regarding the issue that he has brought forward and I have, in fact, made representations to the Chief Electoral Officer in a telephone call this morning.
He indicated that he is already in the process of acting upon some of the representations that individuals have made to him. He assures me that he will be making the necessary exceptions wherever possible to ensure that the broadest possible coverage will be carried out in the rural areas in terms of advertising.
Oral Questions IMMIGRATION


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration. The immigration office at 130 Bloor Street in Toronto was closed on August 25, relocated in the Minister's own riding one and a half blocks from her campaign office, began operating on September 6, and yesterday, after complaints from area residents, and after blaming her own officials, the Minister quickly decided to wind down the operation and move it elsewhere.
This chain of moving episodes gives the clear appearance that her obligations as a national Minister in charge of a national Department have been juggled to satisfy her own personal political interests in her own riding. Why did the Minister permit the office to move into the riding in the first place? Was this move simply a politically appetizing venture that quickly went sour?


Mr. Speaker, first, I found out about this office probably about 24 hours before the Hon. Member did. There was a decision made in our Department under my predecessor, my colleague to my right, in order to serve our immigration clients, that the policy of the Department-and it is a good one- would be to open offices to serve the public in areas where there is a high demand.
It was decided to open an office in Scarborough and in North York. As the Hon. Member well knows, Eglinton Avenue is not in North York and the location that was chosen is in a neighbourhood with small retail shops, a residential area with seniors, and no parking.
The officials of my Department, in their ongoing commitment to improve the service, are going to be doing something about the line-ups at that office and at other offices in Toronto. They will be looking at a more appropriate location for this office in an area that is better served, a commercial area or an area near public transport.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister might as well put the office on wheels. One must really stretch one's imagination to believe that a Minister, who is supposed to be on top of her Department, did not know that an office was going squarely in the middle of her riding, one and half blocks from the Conservative campaign office for the next election. That really stretches the imagination.


I will direct my supplementary question to the Minister. The Regional Director of Public Works in Toronto has refused to release any financial information to anyone with the exception of the Minister and her colleague, the Minister of Public Works, which I find offensive as a Canadian.

September 21, 1988
Oral Questions
Therefore, can the Minister inform this House what the final costs were to close the office at 130 Bloor Street, relocate it in her riding, break the lease agreement, and move it yet again?
[DOT] (M50)
How many taxpayers' dollars have been scandalously wasted in order to subsidize the Minister's own political interests in her riding, in first having the office come to the riding and then relocating it?


First, Mr. Speaker, there is the question if it is determined that the office will be moved to another location, and 1 should say that this is not an appropriate location either for the neighbourhood or for the clients it serves. People who come to that office do not have a place to park.


Why is it there?


It is in the wrong place. 1 have already said that.


You are in the wrong place.


We have started to open some branch offices. We have opened one in Brampton. There will be another one in Scarborough in November. We have established criteria for doing this in immigration offices. One of the criteria that will be added, as 1 think is appropriate, is whether the neighbourhood is a suitable location, whether it is here or anywhere else.
I can assure the Hon. Member that the money will not be wasted, nor will the space.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of National Defence. The Minister has confirmed in a recent letter to me regarding nerve gas tests at CFB Suffield: "Before 1968, there was a small number of nerve agent tests, mostly conducted in the laboratory, in which people participated".
Yesterday, neither the Minister nor his Associate, nor the ADM responsible, knew how many people were tested or were involved in how many tests over how many years prior to 1968. If we do not know who the participants were in these tests of deadly nerve gases, how can the Minister be so sure as he said in his letter to me that none has suffered any lasting ill effects?


Because, Mr. Speaker, in trying to reconstruct the records of
some 20 years ago, what we found was that in the vast majority of instances the people who participated were themselves civilian researchers at DRES. Employees at DRES are required to take annual medical check-ups, and over the course of that time at no time was there a single instance when we found any long-term effects of exposure to nerve gas whatsoever.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister is continuing to be evasive on this subject.


Oh, oh!


I have asked how many there were, who they were-


He just answered that.


His Assistant Deputy said there were 10 or 12 tests. How many tests were there? Has there been any followup on those who submitted to these tests?


Yes.


He just said it.


Tell me exactly who was subject as a guinea pig to these nerve gas tests?


Mr. Speaker, I think any reading of Hansard will show that I answered the question that was asked. Now the Hon. Member changes the question.


I said how many. That was the question.


If she will permit me to answer the question instead of shouting-


How many were involved?


If the Hon. Member will permit an answer I will be glad to give it.
We have gone back. There have been none in the past 20 years whatsoever.


I said before 1968.


During the 1960s we have been able to identify some nine separate tests. We are looking for information on that at the present time. In terms of who was involved, as I have indicated, in the vast majority of instances it was civilian researchers at DRES themselves.


Who?


Who? Civilian researchers at DRES themselves.


Any lasting effects?
September 21, 1988


The Hon. Member asks how do we know, then, that there have not been any long-term effects. It is because civilian researchers at DRES are required to take annual medical check-ups. If the annual medical check-ups of these civilian researchers had shown any problems associated with exposure to nerve gas we would have known.
Notwithstanding that fact, I have asked my staff to go back and try to identify the individuals involved in each case and to do follow-up studies, notwithstanding the fact that never has there been any evidence of any long-term effects. But in view of the fears that are being created by the NDP, I think we owe it to these employees to do follow-up tests.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Deputy Prime Minister. It concerns a matter which falls into the jurisdiction of the Solicitor General, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that the RCMP are in the process of conducting an investigation into the conduct of two Members of the Conservative Caucus, the Hon. Member for La Prairie and the Hon. Member for Hochelega-Maison-neuve? Can he indicate to the House the nature of the RCMP investigation?


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Solicitor General I will take the question as notice. I have not been informed of any such investigation as Acting Solicitor General, but I will take the question and make the appropriate inquiries.


Mr. Speaker, I do not believe this matter should wait for the return of the Solicitor General. Will the Minister of Justice undertake to inquire into this particular matter and report to the House at the earliest opportunity?


Mr. Speaker, I find this line of questioning quite offensive. The Leader of the Opposition at the beginning of this Parliament laid down what I thought were quite reasonable rules respecting the whole question of raising allegations on the floor of the House on the basis of some alleged investigation. Our system of justice requires that when allegations are made or investigations take place, they should be left to the RCMP who are a competent and dedicated police force in this country.
To have the Hon. Member stand up and suggest by innuendo that there is something wrong, I find that offensive and I think he should get up and apologize to the House and the Members in question.
Oral Questions HOUSING


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State for Housing. When the Minister announced last week that the Government was releasing some 123 acres of surplus land at the Downsview Airport, the Minister also said that only about 25 per cent, or 30 acres of that land, would be put aside for affordable housing. That is like trying to use a garden hose to put out a forest fire.
In order to face the housing crisis in Toronto, is the Government prepared to release some if not all of the additional 25,000 acres of land that the federal Government owns in Metro Toronto, for the construction of affordable housing?


Mr. Speaker, 1 thank the Hon. Member for his question. We have commissioned the McLaughlin Report which assessed the available federal lands in Toronto and made certain recommendations. Those recommendations are being assessed at the present time.
One of the recommendations within that report concerned the lands at Downsview. I can also be very up front with him and say that that was the easiest one to deal with. Some of the others caused other problems that Mr. McLaughlin has presented in his report.
We are looking at those lands and, when we have an announcement, we will make it at the appropriate time.


Mr. Speaker, in response to questions from the press last Friday when the Minister made his announcement, the Minister or other Ministers who were at that press conference refused to define affordability. Indeed, when I asked the Minister again on Monday whether or not he could define affordability, he said he would not be pinned down on the question.
Is the Minister aware that his own Department, Canada Mortgage and Housing, has a definition of affordability? If he is aware of that, is he also telling us that it is the Government's intention to change that already long-established definition of affordability?


Mr. Speaker, affordability differs from community to community, as the Hon. Member can appreciate, with cost of living that is taken into consideration and so on. To pin down what is affordable is a very difficult thing to do. The Hon. Member is not going to pin me down today on that.

September 21, 1988
Privilege-Mr. Jourdenais
As far as a definition from Canada Mortgage and Housing regarding affordability is concerned, those policies and those statements are always under review, and could be changed.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the President of the Treasury Board my question is addressed to the Minister of State for the Treasury Board. It has to do with the dock workers on the East and West Coasts. I think the Minister is aware of this, and I appreciate the matter is in mediation, but I would like to ask the Minister a question. Would the Government be prepared to admit that wage parity on the East and West Coasts will come in time, and the mediation will be about how it is supposed to come in time, whether it is over a three-year contract period or a two-year contract period? Would he please answer that, Mr. Speaker?


Mr. Speaker, for some time now it has been the policy of the federal Government to reflect local rates of pay for public servants which are comparable to that of workers in the private sector in the regions. My hon. friend asks me to reverse that policy by way of a question, and I am not prepared to do that.
The matter which he refers to is subject to mediation which started yesterday afternoon and may still be going on. For that reason 1 do not wish to comment on the actual question he asks, either in generalities or specifics.

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister responsible for postal service or his representative. A document obtained from Canadian Press shows that some post offices to be closed by Canada Post are cost-effective. For a long time, the Minister has been telling us that he is closing these post offices because they are unprofitable. If someone could answer in the
Minister's place, I would like to know the real reason for closing these post offices, which nevertheless are cost-effective. [English]


Mr. Speaker, it being 3.04 the Hon. Minister has left the House. 1 will put that question to him and he will try to get back to my hon. friend.


The Chair recognizes the Hon. Member for La Prairie on a question of privilege.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the House and the Chair to give me a few moments. My name was just mentioned while I was outside the Chamber. A Member said that the RCMP was investigating me in my riding. I would like to see the "blues" tomorrow, but I would say that no one from the RCMP ever came to my riding or questioned me about anything whatsoever.
I think that before making such accusations, the Opposition Member should seek the facts, analyze them and know what he is talking about before starting to accuse some people publicly in this House.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the Government's response to five petitions, Nos. 332-5349, 332-5350, 332-5351, 332-5352, 332-5353. [Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


for leave
to introduce Bill C-328, an Act to amend the Food and Drugs
Act (cautionary label on alcoholic beverage container).


September 21, 1988
Shall the Hon. Member have leave to introduce the Bill?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Hon. Warren Allmand (Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine
East): Mr. Speaker, I would like to move that the first report of the Standing Committee on Labour, Employment and Immigration presented to the House on March 19 be concurred in.
I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. Quite often in the Chamber there are prior discussions that lead to a general acceptance in the Chamber, quite often unanimously, of a committee report. I am unaware of any conversations that have gone on in advance of the motion on this occasion. I just wonder whether it was because I was away from the House on Monday when such discussions took place, or whether they did not take place. I wonder if we could have that clarified before we proceed.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on the same point of order. 1 recognize that while there have been pockets of prosperity in the last little while, particularly in southern Ontario, there are vast parts of the country that in fact are still experiencing excessive and unacceptable levels of unemployment. We had some discussions earlier in the day, I want to tell you, Mr. Speaker, indicating that perhaps this would be a good day to put on the record some of the concerns that opposition Members have regarding the unacceptable levels of unemployment in parts of Canada and the ways and means in which the Unemployment Insurance Act could be used to alleviate some of those concerns.
I simply want to say to the Parliamentary Secretary that, indeed, perhaps he has not been privy to these discussions, but there have been consultations and discussions I know between ourselves and the Official Opposition at least.


Just to clarify the situation, the Hon. Member for Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine East (Mr. Allmand) has put a motion for concurrence. In the usual course-just so Hon. Members understand and so that the public watching and listening understand-that will of course now lead immediately to debate. The Hon. Parliamentary Secretary has said that often these matters are discussed between House Leaders. They are often discussed between House Leaders. However, the rules are clear, and whether or not there was any discussion, or as full a discussion as the Parliamentary Secretary might have wished, the situation is quite clear. The
Committee Reports
Hon. Member for Notre-Dame-de-Grace-Lachine East is entitled to lead off on debate.


Mr. Speaker, just so that Members can plan their day, I wonder if 