Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 101, I have the honour to present to the House, in both official languages, the second report of the official parliamentary delegation of the Canada-Japan interparliamentary group which visited Tokyo, Japan, for a study on trade matters from April 11 to April 14, 1988.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 101, I have the honour to present to the House, in both official languages, the report of the official parliamentary delegation which represented Canada at the interparliamentary conference in Guatemala City, Guatemala, April 11 to April 16, 1988.


Mr. Speaker, consideration is presently being given to a motion, but at the present time the House Leader for the Official Opposition is not in the House and he has asked that we defer this matter until 3 p.m. I ask permission of the House now to revert to Motions at three o'clock.


Agreed.


Is there consent?


Wait a minute. I think that, if the Government is ready to proceed with the motion, the Official Opposition would be.


Mr. Speaker, 1 want to make it clear that there have been some very delicate negotiations going on between the three House Leaders on this most important issue and, rather than agree now to allow the motion to be put later in the day, I am sure there would be unanimous consent to do that at three o'clock. I suggest that we give consideration to just letting this stand for the moment and come back to it at three o'clock. Hopefully by that time the delicate negotiations would have been completed.


Agreed.


What is the motion about?


The Hon. Member for Annapolis Valley- Hants (Mr. Nowlan) on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I am asking what the subject matter is of the delicate negotiations. All we have heard about is some motion about some delicate negotiations. I kind of think I know what it is, but I would like to know for sure what the subject matter of the delicate negotiations is. Surely that should be in the public domain.


Ask your Government.


The Hon. Member for Annapolis Valley- Hants has the floor.


I am not trying to be obstructionist, but I heard the exchange and if you are asking Members to give unanimous consent on a blank motion dealing with sensitive discussions, I think it is a fair question to ask what the subject matter is.


Keep talking.


For whatever reason, I think the wish is just to put this matter over at the moment. I think I can indicate to the House that I will hear the Hon. Minister of State (Mr. Lewis) at three o'clock on this matter and then I will see what the disposition of the House is.


You will know at three o'clock.


On a point of order, Mr. Speaker, may I understand what is happening procedurally? I believe the Government House Leader asked for unanimous

May 17, 1988
Petitions
consent to defer consideration of this matter until three o'clock. Maybe I missed something, but I did not hear the question put to the Efouse as to whether there was unanimous consent. If it is put, we on this side of the House will give consent. However, I would like it to be clear that this discussion is not being postponed until three o'clock this afternoon by request of the Official Opposition. On the contrary, we are perfectly ready to discuss this matter right now.
[DOT] <mo)

Mir. Speaker: I understand the position taken by the Hon. Member for Saint-Jacques (Mr. Guilbault), but 1 think the Hon. Member for Kamloops-Shuswap (Mr. Riis) has asked unanimous consent for a discussion later today, probably at three o'clock.

Perhaps the Hon. Minister of State can give the Chair further guidance.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps there has been some mix-up. I am not attributing it to anyone, but my latest information was that the House Leader of the Official Opposition wished to do it at three o'clock. In view of the comments of my colleague, the Member for Kamloops-Shuswap (Mr. Riis), perhaps we should defer until three o'clock. I will discuss the matter with my colleague, the Member for Annapolis Valley- Hants (Mr. Nowlan), and perhaps we can proceed at three o'clock.


For the record, the situation is that there has been a discussion but the matter has not been settled at this time. As I have indicated, the Minister of State will be heard at three o'clock and the House can then decide to deal with this as it sees fit at that time.


Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to present a petition on behalf of a number of British Columbians who are concerned about the issues surrounding Bill C-55. They believe that it threatens Canada's traditional commitment to assisting refugees and sets out measures designed to keep refugee claimants out of the country as opposed to ensuring that genuine refugee claimants are given protection.
The petitioners believe that Bill C-55 will result in many, perhaps most, refugees who reach our borders being turned away without having their claims heard on the merits of their
case.
The petitioners go on with a whole set of other concerns regarding Bill C-55, but they are basically asking that Parliament withdraw this Bill and substitute legislation embodying the principles of fair and quick oral hearings of claims of refugee claimants before a refugee board, independent of the Immigration Commission. They say, as well, that universal access to such hearings ought to be provided for every applicant in Canada as well as the right to appeal on the basis of fact.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour and pleasure to present a petition from many residents of the riding of Etobicoke North as well as other centres in Ontario. The petition deals with the Memorandum of Agreement entered into by the Department of Justice between Canada and the U.S.S.R. dealing only with Nazi war criminals. My constituents call upon Parliament to enter into negotiations to amend the Memorandum of Agreement to reflect the prosecution of all war criminals in order that not only Nazi war criminals will be singled out.


Mr. Speaker, I, too, have the honour to present a petition, pursuant to Standing Order 106,* signed by several constituents of mine from the federal riding of Brant. The petitioners are totally opposed to the Government proceeding at this time with the trade agreement with the United States. They call upon the Government to call an election so that the people can decide whether or not Canada should enter into this agreement. They fear that many jobs will be lost if the present agreement goes through unamended.


Mr. Speaker, I have a petition signed by some 500 members of Holy Cross Parish in my constituency of Ottawa Centre with respect to the question of abortion. The petitioners note that the Supreme Court of Canada has nullified the only federal law concerning abortion and has given Parliament the responsibility of passing, as soon as possible, new legislation on this matter. They pray that Parliament enact a new law which fully guarantees and protects the right to life of all unborn children from the time of conception onward.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 106 it is my duty and privilege to present to the House of Commons today one of a number of petitions signed by residents in and around the federal constituency of Moncton. The petition deals with abortion.
The petitioners are cognizant of the fact that the Supreme Court of Canada's recent ruling has virtually removed all laws which apply to the abortion process in Canada. They are urging this House to introduce the necessary legislation to
May 17, 1988

place limits upon abortion and protect the rights of the unborn child.


Mr. Speaker, I ask that all questions be allowed to stand.


Shall all questions be allowed to stand?


Agreed.


The House proceeded to the consideration of amendments made by the Senate to Bill C-60, an Act to amend the Copyright Act and to amend other Acts in consequence thereof.
Mr. Speaker, I regret that we are back in the House of Commons again to deal with Bill C-60. As you know, Canadian artists, composers, and writers have been waiting too long for this particular piece of legislation to amend an Act which has been substantially unchanged since 1924. Canadian creators need protection, fair compensation, and adequate remedies for infringement. They need these things now. At the same time, users of copyright works must have quick and easy access to these works at a reasonable cost.
Bill C-60 makes all this possible. It defines new forms of intellectual creativity such as computer software which has not been subject to copyright until now. It will now be subject to copyright legislation. At long last, this Bill provides appropriate penalties for the commercial theft of copyright.

This Bill enforces the principles of existing artistic creative rights by providing for the establishment of collectives, which give both the creator and the public a legal means to arrive at fair compensation for use of those rights.
Liberal Senators have voted to make two amendments to the Bill, one to delete exhibition rights and the other to delay the implementation of the new Copyright Board's power concerning the collective administration of copyright.
Copyright Act
Bill C-60, as passed by this House, is a good piece of legislation. It is reasoned, it is fair, it is sensible and it is workable. And it is long overdue.

First, I will address the amendment which proposes the deletion of the exhibition right, the first amendment proposed by the other place. I will then address the proposal to amend the Bill to provide for a minimum one-year delay in the coming into force of the provisions dealing with collectives.
I want to make it very clear at the outset that I cannot support the deletion of exhibition rights. That amendment is anti-artist and anti-creator. The exhibition right, which was rejected by the Liberal Party in the other place, is an economic right designed to benefit visual artists, many of whom are not all that well off. The Bill would allow these artists to be paid for the exhibition of their works even after they no longer own the work. It allows them, if they wish, to be paid for the assignment of the exhibition right as part of the purchase price of their works of art. It can be paid for at the same time as the work of art is originally sold. This right is long overdue and something which artists in Canada strongly support.
The report of the Senate committee acknowledges that the various museum associations stated that they supported the principle of compensation for an exhibition right. But not so with Liberal Senators. Indeed, the Chairman of the Senate committee himself refused even to endorse the principle of the right when I appeared before the committee in the other place.
In 1985, all three Parties in this House worked together on a subcommittee to conduct a study of possible changes to the copyright law. All three Parties unanimously recommended that an exhibition right be provided in new copyright legislation. This all-Party recommendation, which came out of the subcommittee's work, was based on very extensive inquiry. I understand that the all-Party subcommittee reviewed over 300 written submissions and heard 111 witnesses in public hearings all over the country. After months of this work, the provision of a new exhibition right for visual artists was unanimously recommended by all three political Parties through their representatives on the subcommittee.
Subsequently, Bill C-60 was drafted to include this recommendation, and Bill C-60 itself was the subject of very careful and lengthy analysis by a legislative committee of the House.
The legislative committee considered general changes that should be made to the copyright law as well as specific changes such as this. Bill C-60 was tabled last May, one year ago. It was the subject of eight months of study. Over 100 briefs were reviewed and 30 sets of witnesses appeared before the legislative committee.

And yet, Mr. Speaker, after only a few days of cursory analysis, Liberal Senators say that this right, which would

May 17, 1988
Copyright Act
benefit our artists who contribute so much to Canadian life, should be deleted. The Liberal committee chairman said in the other place the bill "goes too far" in protecting creators. Well, Mr. Speaker, they are wrong. This House must support the artists of Canada by rejecting the amendment to delete the exhibition right.

Let me reiterate what I said about new exceptions to copyright. Members of the House will be aware that Bill C-60 is phase 1 of a two-phased approach to copyright reform. Work on phase 2, in which exceptions to copyright are being addressed, is progressing very well. I am pleased to hear of the work of the consultative committees of users and creators. I should be in a position to table phase 2 legislation within a few months.
With respect to exhibition rights, my Department and I will continue to consult with both creators and users of visual art. If all parts of that community reach a solid and mutually satisfactory understanding with the Government concerning exceptions to the exhibition right, then the phase 2 Bill will be drafted accordingly.
I now want to address the second amendment proposed by the Senate committee. This amendment would delay for a year the implementation of the Copyright Board's powers with respect to new collectives. I must say that this amendment makes absolutely no sense to me because the work of the Copyright Board will be to the advantage of both users and creators. Its function is to help arrive at a decision when there is no mutually agreed upon process between creators and users.
The Copyright Board would operate to ensure a balance between the interests of the consumer and those of the creator. By establishing the new board as a fully independent agency, by granting it quasi-judicial authority, and by making it the final arbiter in financial disputes between creator and user, Bill C-60 provides the proper balance and a solid guarantee of fairness to those who create works and those who use them.
One can only try to imagine why certain members of the other place would want to delay copyright reform by proposing a technical amendment that really does not benefit anyone.
Canadian creators have been most emphatic in their desire to have Bill C-60 passed quickly. Last month, a diverse alliance of creator organizations, some 36 in all, issued an unequivocal statement to the members of the other place. These groups represent thousands of Canadian creators and, in delivering their message to the other place, both to Senators personally and through the public media, they said:
This Bill affects the livelihood and existence of Canada's creative community: composers and lyricists, authors and poets, visual and performing artists, choreographers, computer software designers and record companies, among others. It was discussed for more than a generation by our cultural industries, associations, panels, users, politicians both in and out of power, and by various governments. Many of the players in this process have died of old age. So let's get on with the copyright revision. We need protection, fair compensation and adequate remedies for infringement, now.
That was the message that an alliance of 36 creator organizations sent to members of the other place. Unfortunately, these words fell on deaf ears among certain members of the other place.
The Bill is now back in our court. Since it was this House which originally endorsed Bill C-60 in February of this year, I do not think I should need to convince Hon. Members once again of its importance and its urgency.
With Bill C-60 we can stop commercial piracy, be it of software, sound recordings, audio tapes or video tapes; we can end the outrageously outdated two-cent compulsory licensing of sound recordings; and we can establish the framework of a workable regulatory system for the collection of royalties earned by our creative artists.
By acting promptly, we can save 8,000 jobs. That is the estimate placed on the cost in lost employment due to computer software piracy alone. That is what Bill C-60 is able to do. It is able to correct these inequities and bring in new arrangements. Our writers, composers and our artists, including our software creators, as well as all the others who so richly endow Canada's cultural life, deserve to receive the benefits to which they are justly entitled. They have subsidized the public's enjoyment and benefits of their efforts and talents for long enough.
For 64 years they have waited to see basic creative rights respected. If we are truly serious about the value and importance of maintaining and encouraging the growth of Canada's unique identity, of our culture, then we must deliver those rights to our creators and artists, and we must do it now. Therefore, I move, seconded by the Minister of State for Small Business and Tourism (Mr. Valcourt):
That a message be sent to the Senate to acquaint Their Honours that this House disagrees with both amendments made by the Senate to Bill C-60, an Act to amend the Copyright Act and to amend other Acts in consequence thereof, because this House believes that the amendments contradict the principles of the Bill which will provide new rights for creators and a new board to adjudicate between the interests of creators and users of copyright material.
More specifically:
Amendment 1 deletes the new exhibition right to the detriment of visual artists who should be compensated for the exhibition of their works.
Amendment 2 delays the coming into force of sections giving the Copyright Board jurisdiction over the collective administration of copyright, to the detriment of both users and creators of copyright material, for whom the Board would be an adjudicative tribunal operating to assure that royalties to be paid will be equitable.


Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak to the consideration of amendments made by the Senate to Bill C-60, an Act to amend the Copyright Act. I understand the need and urgency for this copyright revision, and I am pleased the Minister was able to bring this revision into the House, which will allow new economic rights for creators and a series of other rights to which I will allude in a
May 17, 1988

few moments. I would acknowledge that that is an extremely worthwhile goal.
Certainly, this society is ready to recognize these Canadian creators as those who expose, propose and propound Canadian values and cultural perspectives which are key in today's society and have become even more important as we move toward changing the Canadian pattern of operation. However, I do believe that legislators have, as a fundamental responsibility and obligation, as well as a duty, to strike the necessary balance between the competing interests of the creators in establishing their economic rights and in ensuring a fair return through the recognition of their works and that of the public having access to them.
Canadian creative talent should be available to Canadians at a fair price for both the user and the creator. There is a fault in the Minister's Bill. There is a problem we have had to face with this Minister who has not seemed to understand and who has been trying to dump a guilt trip on the other House, trying to indicate a sense of culpability, when it was merely fulfiling a very important obligation which is set out in the Constitution of this land, which is to be a place of sober second thought. The Senate is there to look at the kinds of legislation going through this House and to make solid concrete, intelligent, well reasoned recommendations to the Minister and to the Government. The recommendations should be considered so that we would end up with the best kind of legislation to meet the fair and equitable needs of all Canadians.
It is sad that this Minister does not care to acknowledge that. The Minister said yesterday in the House, and I quote from Hansard at page 15478:
I close merely by saying that fear and the creation of fear will get Hon.
Members opposite nowhere because Canadians understand the game they are
playing. Canadians understand what it is they are trying to do and they simply
will not buy it.
Canadians who have been writing and speaking to me certainly know the game the Minister was playing. The Minister forgot to put together a whole Bill. She decided to do it in two phases. She would have been able to come in here with glowing pride, with a tremendous sense of accomplishment, had she followed the thinking of 1924 when the Bill was brought in. They did a complete overhaul then. They did not put it into two phases and leave half the population wondering where they are. It is for this reason that we had to fight long and hard in committee. We had to bring in over 150 amendments to the Bill because the Minister wrote such inadequate legislation. The Senate then had to add amendments along the way.
I would like to suggest that the 1924 overhaul did not address copyright in a patchwork fashion the way this Government has chosen to. This is an extremely complex law, as the Minister knows. The other House has outlined in its background report to this House that the copyright is a legal recognition of the exclusive right of a creator to determine the use of a work and to share in the benefits produced by that use. That is very sensible. It goes on to state that since 1924,
Copyright Act
technology has changed dramatically, increasing the number of ways in which the results of artistic endeavour may be exploited.
The Copyright Act has proved remarkably adaptable to the new technology, considering that its framers could not have foreseen the advent of such inventions as television, photocopiers, videos tape recorders, computers and other devices. I wish this Minister had been as foresighted as the Minister who drew up that Bill in 1924. I will not go through the history of all the various committees which have looked at this over time. The Bill was brought into this House on May 27, 1987, by the Minister. The two cents per song for recording artists was absolutely ludicrous. On March 11, 1987, I brought it to the attention of the Minister. I had public meetings on the issue and asked for the abolition of Section 19, the two cents per song compulsory licence, so that we could move forward without waiting for half time, part time, incomplete phase 1, phase 2 legislation. The Minister did not see the light of day then and she still has not seen the light of day.
It is true that this legislation has had a long, hard row before it saw the light of day. I would like to point out the complexities of this particular Bill. We are dealing with the first stages containing approximately 25 per cent of the revisions and recommendations which flowed from the From Gutenberg to Telidon document and then, from that study to the Charter of Rights for Creators. It addresses exhibition rights, which introduces a totally new right and a new concept into the country. I welcome that right. It would provide the holder with the sole right to present artistic works at public exhibitions.
Second, it addresses moral rights, which expands existing moral rights and defines the nature of an infringement. I am pleased that there are some very strict conditions contained within those moral rights.
It abolishes the compulsory licenses of sound recordings at the rate of two cents per side. But, of course, it does not deal with the whole concern of performing rights.
With respect to collectives, it provides the statutory foundation for the collective administration of all economic rights for creators under copyright.
It has a provision for a Copyright board which reconstitutes the existing Copyright Appeal Board as the "copyright board" and expands its jurisdiction. The Minister knows that there are some concerns about that.
With respect to choreographic works, it provides copyright protection for any choreographic work regardless of whether or not it has a story line. That is a very innovative provision.
With respect to computer software it explicitly extends copyright protection to computer software. This is a provision which is long overdue and which should have been brought in by the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. I am sorry that we had to wait this long for it.

May 17, 1988
Copyright Act
With respect to copyright infringement, it substantially increases the penalties for infringement of copyright and penalties for piracy.
With respect to industrial design, it clarifies the relationship between industrial design and copyright protection. With respect to computer software and industrial design, it is regrettable that the microchip was not dealt with. It is regrettable that such a provision did not come out under the auspices of the Department of Consumer and Corporate Affairs.
The Senate Standing Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce heard evidence touching on each one of these issues. There is no doubt that it supported overwhelmingly the thrust of this Bill. It understood the need to support the economic rights of artists, and was well aware of those issues.
The Minister can snicker and make all kinds of faces, but the reality is that the Senate certainly did recognize those rights.


Don't make faces, Flora.


She is so petty.


I would like to suggest, Mr. Speaker, if there is any pettiness in this House let the wearer wear it.


You are doing well.


The Bill goes on to address some of the very serious issues with respect to which we have had some concerns. I suggest that, as copyright is both a means of securing financial benefits to creators for previous productions and an inducement for further creative activity, copyright law represents therefore a trade-off or balance between rewarding and encouraging creators on the one side of the coin, something which is absolutely fundamental, and ensuring fair reward through negotiated distribution of their creative output, which is the other side of the coin.
Those of us who took our legislative responsibility seriously in attempting to achieve that fair balance have been charged with being guilty of obstructionism. May I say that I do not feel that that was fair criticism. I suggest that what we were attempting to do, something which is a legislator's responsibility, was to look at what was in the best interest of fairness for both the users and the creators because we have to know the rules of the game. When we do not know the rules of the game we certainly are not on a level playing field.
Let me say once and for all that we were never opposed to creators, nor were we ever trying to restrict creators unduly from getting fair return for their work. That is not the issue. The creators are certainly well aware that that was not the issue.
However, we do feel that there must be an element of fairness. I do not believe that this Bill has been totally fair to all concerned. It asks users to wait to see what is in the second
phase of copyright. How long will we have to wait until these exemptions are addressed? We need only take a look at the Government's legislative agenda in this respect, and you tell me, Mr. Speaker, when phase 2 is likely to see the light of day.
Meanwhile, in phase 1 we provide no protection for continuing industry practices that have been acceptable for many years, and which in all fairness did not create unfair economic penalties for the creators. As an example, I turn the Minister's attention to the broadcasters who are required by the CRTC to retain tapes of complete broadcasts for 30 days, or with respect to the use of ephemeral recordings. It has other implications. These have been practices which have been in place for decades. As a result, now, broadcasters have no protection if they keep a tape to fulfil CRTC requirements or use a recording for re-broadcasting because of the time zone differences since Bill C-60 does not address specific exemptions.
This accepted practice could be deemed to be in violation of copyright law. There is the potential of penalties of anywhere up to $25,000 for violations. I ask: Is this what the Government means by fairness to our Canadian broadcasters?
The 1924 Copyright Act, although very progressive in its day, has certainly fallen short in providing creators the vehicles by which to enforce their economic rights. The Government's attempt to right these errors by its creator's Bill and the inclusion of stiffer penalties, as well as codifying the role of creative collectives, is an excellent initiative. But while this Bill has been updated, it has become highly contagious in certain areas. As a recent bulletin of the Canadian Conference of the Arts states:
It pits the cultural community not against the Philistines or the prudes, but against itself-visual artists versus galleries, authors versus libraries, composers versus record companies, even, at times, artists versus each other.
Those are not the words of Members in the other place. Nor are they the words of Members of the Opposition. Those were the words of the spokespersons for the Canadian Conference of the Arts. I suggest the Minister would have done well had she heeded them. It is unfortunate that such dissension has been created between everyone on this very vital issue.
Those of us who asked questions and moved amendments were attempting to provide the necessary mechanisms by which users could be provided that particular balance. It has been said that users had it their way for over 60 years. I am now asking: Does that mean that we should punish them by having inequitable and incomplete legislation? I do not think that is the way this place should work. I suggest that not striking a fair balance with the opportunity that we had to do so is inappropriate.
I would like to quote the words of one of the Senators, Senator Sinclair, who said on April 27, 1988:
The Minister appeared before the Committee and talked with some pride about the fact that she was leading the parade. She was proud that "Canada was going to lead the way," she said. There is nothing wrong with leading,
May 17, 1988

where the harm comes is when you lead and you do not know where you are
going.
Not only does the Minister not know where she is going but nobody else does either. That is what is troubling to the people who must use this Bill. That is what has been most unfair.


Who wrote that for you?


I am quoting the words of a Senator in the other place. I suggest that it is too bad that the issue of fairness was not fully regarded at this time.
Let us look at the Senate amendments and what we are addressing today.


Open your ears, Flora.


You mean we shouldn't do anything about it? That is really sad.


I would suggest that it was not a case of not doing anything at all. I would suggest that it was a case of doing things right and doing things fairly. But the Minister is either so thin-skinned or so thick-skinned that she does not wish to hear what we are saying. What we are addressing here today from the other place after hearings and after careful study are two amendments to which the Minister does not care to listen. The first would delete the lines dealing with exhibition rights. The second would have delayed the coming into force of collectives for one year after they were assented to, or on such later day as may be fixed by proclamation. By making these amendments the Senate was attempting to achieve balance.
Essentially, it is a shame that the Senate had to bring these amendments in. I would have preferred none of these amendments, and the Minister knows that. The Minister knows I attempted to negotiate with her behind the scenes in order to bring in a Bill that would alleviate the fears that she has created in the artistic as well as the users' world. But, no, the Minister did not care to listen. Therefore, the Senate was forced to move in this direction.
After the Senate Standing Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce tabled its report in the Senate, I wrote a letter to the Minister of Communications (Miss MacDonald) suggesting a compromise until phase 2 and the fair use provisions were introduced. First, I said that we would have reinstated the following principle to Clause 2 on page 2 dealing with exhibition rights. That was "to present an artistic work, for a purpose other than sale or hire, not owned by a museum and presented by that museum for a public exhibition". As a temporary measure that would have found favour right across the board.
This amendment resulted from a meeting held on February 22, 1988, organized by the Canadian Conference of the Arts. I take this opportunity to commend them for taking such
Copyright Act
initiative. It is too bad that the Minister had not thought to do the same. The meeting was attended by the Canadian Artists' Representation, CARFAC, VIS-ART Copyright Inc., the Royal Canadian Academy of Arts, RCAA, the Association of National Non-Profit Artist Run Centres, ANNPAC, the Canadian Museums' Association, and I will turn to them in a minute, the Canadian Art Museum Directors' Organization, CAMDO, and the Professional Art Dealers Association of Canada, PADAC. It was strange, Mr. Speaker, but these were all the people the Minister is standing here and telling us we were fighting against, and they were trying to get the Minister to listen.
With respect to the presence of the Canadian Museum Association, in her speech earlier today the Minister stated that all three Parties got together and all three Parties agreed to the exhibition right. She forgot to add that when the three Parties got together to review the report From Gutenberg to Telidon and wrote their charter of creators report, they had totally ignored and had not invited the museum representatives to even speak their piece on this particular Bill, when it has such a serious impact on the manner in which they function and operate. I do not call that a complete hearing.
I would suggest to you, Mr. Speaker, that after all these groups got together under the aegis of the Canadian Conference of the Arts, the week after that meeting, George Horan of CARFAC wrote to the Minister of Communications stating the objectives of both creators and users, and that they could be met through the agreement that they had made. That agreement encompassed the following. One, expanding the right to the entire life's work of an artist; two, simplifying the administrative burdens of the institutions; three, avoiding potential abuses such as redating works of art; four, recognizing and encouraging public institutions' public collecting functions; five, creating a new economic base for practicing visual artists and their heirs.
On their own, creators and users had struck that elusive balance that the Minister could not seem to find, but were told by the Department of Communications, "No, wait until phase 2". As a result, the agreement fell apart, and that is sad. Through the use of an all-Party agreement this amendment could have been passed in a matter of minutes in the Chamber, and we would not have to be dealing with the Senate amendment.
Now museums and artists will have to wait until phase 2 to address their agreement. I would like to forewarn the Minister that she may not be the Minister, the players in the game may not be the same, the heads of all those organizations who came to an agreement may not be the same, and we may have missed that important window of opportunity, that important moment in time. It is quite regrettable. I hope the Minister feels a sense of discomfort, because she earned it.
I would hope that the Minister would consider amending the definition section, including a definition of artistic works, and a definition of public exhibition. We asked the Minister to

May 17, 1988
Copyright Act
consider these amendments, she refused, but I do understand that she is well on the way to that definition. I do wish she had brought that amendment into the House to clarify just what is an artistic work in today's society.
My second proposal to the Minister was to amend Clause 26. The Minister has the contents of that proposal, which was that 26(1), Sections 12, 13, 15, 17, 20, and 25 shall come into force on day or days to be picked by proclamation, giving the Minister all kinds of latitude; 26(2), Sections 50.1 to 50.6 of the Copyright Act, and the headings in relation thereto, as enacted by section 14 of this Act relating only to those licensing bodies giving access to repertoires of literary works, shall come into force on the day, that is one year after the day they are assented to, or on such later day or days as may be fixed by proclamation; 26(3), Section 50.7 of the Copyright Act, and the heading immediately preceding that section, as enacted by Section 14 of this Act, shall come into force on a day to be fixed by proclamation.
These were reasoned amendments that would have allowed for the absence of phase 2 at this particular time. They addressed the concerns raised by the educational community. That is a very large constituency out there that trains and educates our children through public school, high school, university, and post-secondary education of all types. It talked to the whole area of repography, the use of photocopies. My amendment was made applicable only to collectives dealing with literary works. The recording industry would have been able to negotiate fair return because of the removal of the compulsory licence. Through Bill C-60 the fears of educators, who felt that they were being forced to enter into negotiations with collectives before phase 2 of copyright addressing fair use or exceptions was even introduced, could have been allayed.
As Lorraine Flaherty from the Canadian School Trustees Association stated before the Senate Banking Committee, "We know very clearly that once Bill C-60 is passed, the collectives will be ready to start negotiations. In addition to not knowing where those negotiations will take place, we feel we are at a terrible disadvantage in not even knowing what it is we are negotiating".
It is pretty sad that they cannot know what they are supposed to be negotiating. At least in the U.S. copyright legislation is an exemption for the use of copyright material within a classroom or in an educational setting. Our universities and the Canadian Association of University Teachers told the Minister that they do not even know if they can use this material for examination purposes, which should obviously be exempted from copyright. Witnesses have stated that they are unaware whether such exemptions will appear in phase 2. I would suggest that that is leaving our educators in a very difficult position. How can they negotiate a fee, be asked to acquire a licence, when they do not know what the repography practice of the collective will be and what the definitions are in respect of this whole area? I would suggest there are some serious concerns that have to be addressed in this particular area.
On a number of occasions the Minister of Communications has also indicated that it is her intention to introduce phase 2 very soon. The Minister wants to introduce a broadcast Bill. She wants to introduce a telecommunication policy. She wants to introduce a film policy. She wants to introduce second phase of copyright. This Government wants to put through the Meech Lake Agreement, the free trade agreement, all types of reform on tax measures. There is a whole list of important legislation on the docket. When does she think that this one will come into play?
As phase 2 is to address exceptions and as literary collectives are in the process of being formed and will not be ready to commence negotiations for some time, this was a reasonable delay that was not an excessive burden. It would simply ensure that before negotiations began, all the rules, the level playing field and all the exemptions would at least be on the table for discussion. After all, one does not buy a house without seeing all the rooms. Why would one expect them to enter negotiations without knowing all the terms?
As well, the Government assumed that the provinces would negotiate with collectives for schools under their jurisdiction, similar to the way the Quebec Government has done with the Union des Ecrivians du Quebec and the Society for the Advancement of Rights in Audiovisuals. Under those agreements, the schools of Quebec have immediate access to a repertoire of literary and audio-visual works in exchange for $1.5 million a year which is negotiated with the Quebec Ministry of Education. As a result, creators are ensured their economic rights while users have immediate access to the things they need. The youth are benefiting from modern technology and from immediate access to information without having their teachers confront fines.
The Quebec example works well, and it is what the Government envisioned happening in the rest of the country. If this is what the Government envisioned, it failed in encouraging that relationship between the provincial Ministers of Education and the collectives. As a result, educators and their students may well be the losers.
This Government has constantly stated that it is its goal and it has always been its goal to reduce tensions between the federal and provincial jurisdictions, that harmony is its goal and that we need to have a level playing field. If this Minister had pursued that logic, then perhaps she would have paid closer attention to or even heeded the communique dated February 26, 1988, from the Council of Ministers of Education of Canada which stated that the Parliament of Canada should postpone the enactment of Bill C-60 until the more substantive elements of copyright reform are known. The Minister should have been aware of that, and certainly the Senate brought it to her attention.
Although I would not agree that there should be a total delay of this Bill, I would certainly agree that the concerns of
May 17, 1988

the provinces, the Ministers of Education and the educators were well worth heeding. Certainly they should have been able to sit down with the Minister to come to some kind of interim agreement in this regard.
The last area I would like to address is that of broadcasting. A very serious error on the part of the Minister has been made. We have heard from the Canadian Association of Broadcasters and from the CBC that the recent decision of the Federal Court of Appeal in Bishop v. Tele-Metropole, involving the temporary copying of a performance of a song for broadcast at a future time, will have serious consequences for broadcasters. This decision is awaiting possible appeal to the Supreme Court. We have been told that unless the Federal Court's decision is overturned, broadcasters fear they will have to pay composers large fees for reproduction of their works or will face the stiff penalties for piracy imposed under Bill C-60.
The Government, in its response to the Charter of Rights for Creators in 1986, indicated that an ephemeral recording exception would be granted to cover not only the CRTC requirements and the time zone requirements to which 1 referred at the outset of my remarks but also the routine prerecording of works for later transmission. Such a right would be granted for six months after the initial transmission. Upon the expiry of that period, the recording would be kept only for research and study purposes.
These ephemeral recording exceptions are by no means novel. These exceptions are incorporated in copyright law in many other jurisdictions including the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, Finland, Holland, Italy, Sweden and Luxembourg. It is only this Minister and this Government that do not care to include it at this point. As a result of the Government not proceeding with this particular exemption, it could potentially be very costly to broadcasters.
The CBC, appearing before us on Estimates last week, estimated, upon questioning from me, that the costs would be $31 million. Upon further investigation, the Canadian Association of Broadcasters has estimated that the lack of this ephemeral right will potentially cost them $18.5 million. That amounts to $49.5 million or close to $50 million. The Department of Communications and the Minister were well aware of this and had a very comprehensive analysis done for them about it. I would read into the record the following:-

"An estimate of additional costs the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation may incur as a result of the implementation of certain recommendations contained in the Report of the SubCommittee on Revision of Copyright, a Charter of Rights for Creators
We estimate that the proposals concerning performers' rights, record producers' rights and ephemeral rights would result in an additional annual expenditure for the CBC of nearly $37 million. We will analyse in greater detail our separate estimates for each of these three categories.
Copyright Act
Mr. Speaker, I will comment on only one of these, namely ephemeral rights. The estimate for this particular category works out to nearly $31 million, that is, $22,600,000 for radio and $8 million for television. These figures are based on rates commonly paid in 1985 for rebroadcasts with musical content. In the case of radio, the rate is $10 to $12 per thirty seconds, depending on whether the rebroadcast is on the French or the English network, and for television, from $16 to $18 per thirty seconds, depending on the network.
For radio, at the present time only broadcasts that are to be repeated require payment of copyright. We calculate that with 326 hours of broadcasts per week, including network and local broadcasts, this works out, at the above-mentioned rates, to $434,640 per week and $22,601,280 annually.
All these radio broadcasts are produced using prerecordings, in order to maximize use of studios and personnel. The requisite rights being previously obtained from those who hold broadcasting rights.
For television, we calculate 73.5 hours of broadcasts per week, which at the rates mentioned works out to $150,720 per week and $7,837,440 annually. The comments regarding prerecording for radio apply, substantially, to television as well.
There is absolutely no doubt that copyright comes under the Berne Convention and that protection must be extended to foreign creators.
As for Recommendation 80 rising from the Charter of Rights for Creators, the exemption it provides for the making of ephemeral recordings by broadcasters is designed only to accommodate the broadcast of programs in different time zones, provided the recording is erased after eight days.
The Report stresses that the exemption should not apply to prerecordings, which are common practice and which allow broadcasters to maximize the use of their studios and collect material and contributions when convenient for those participating.
If the exemption is adopted in this very limited form, it would be of no use to broadcasters. There is no reason why prerecordings should be subject to authorization or payment, when the material in question has been released for broadcasting. This is confirmed by the exemption provided under Article 11 bis of the Berne Convention.
In accordance with this provision, many countries have included in their copyright acts an exemption allowing for the making of ephemeral recordings by broadcasters. The Minister was aware of all this, Mr. Speaker.
Many of these countries, including Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands, Luxemburg, the United Kingdom, Italy and even the United States, are not even signatories to the Berne Convention. The exemption allows prerecording and provides that the recording may be used for a period of six months in the United States, one year in Sweden, Finland and Australia,

May 17, 1988
Copyright Act
and so forth. One could say that the limitations proposed in the Sub-Committee's report are far more restrictive than any of the rules on ephemeral recordings adopted by other countries thus far. If Canada were to adopt provisions governing ephemeral recordings as recommended in the White Paper From Gutenberg to Telidon, which allow for a six-month period, Canadian broadcasters would be able to avoid the additional expense.
I just think it is too bad that the Minister did not listen and that these ephemeral recording exceptions, which are by no means novel, were not included. As a result of the Government not proceeding with this particular exemption it could potentially, as I have said, be very costly, costly to the extent of $50 million. That does not include the other concern of the broadcasters involving the incidental use of an artistic work in a broadcast, that is, music background at a hockey game or having a marching band in a Santa Claus parade. At a time when the Minister of Communications said that her goal was for Canadians to see themselves, the Government has cut out the support system from under the industry through cuts in capital cost allowance for film production of $100 million and now potential costs of $50 million for an exemption which should have been included in this legislation for fair use. This could be a loss in total of $150 million in revenue for an industry that must fulfil Canadian content requirements.
What type of a message is it that the Minister is sending to Canadians and to our broadcasters? Was this a message which the Minister was sending to the American Congress so she could get her free trade Bill through? I have a sense that, if you read what the Minister had to say yesterday in this House, it would tend to confirm that what I am saying is a reality. She said:
Opposition Members are so tied up with relying on what Americans have to
say that they forget the purpose of our cultural policies.
When a Minister is removing potentially $150 million from the film and audio-visual industry, I would suggest the Minister had better re-read her words and re-think her philosophy.
Notwithstanding the for