37 Elizabeth II
Published under authority of the Speaker of the House of Commons by the Queen's Printer for Canada
Available from Canadian Government Publishing Centre, Supply and Services Canada, Ottawa, Canada K1A 0S9.
Wednesday, February 24, 1988
Prayers
Mr. Speaker, I am not accustomed to standing in the House and saying nice words about the Member for St. John's West (Mr. Crosbie), the Minister of Transport. However, today I think it is only reasonable, as I stand here holding the Transport Canada estimates which include some $17 million for the Corner Brook Harbour Development Project for the development of a container terminal, to say to the Minister of Transport on behalf of the people of western Newfoundland that we thank him for including this $17 million in Transport Canada's estimates.
Before I get carried away, I hasten to point out that this project was originally announced in 1983-84 by the previous administration, at a cost of $14 million at that time. It was subsequently put on hold. I am not cynical about the fact that it is back in the Estimates in an election year. We appreciate this project. Corner Brook has seen the start of two new container services. We have had a booming fishing industry. We need this kind of harbour development soon.
In 1984 we spent $370,000 doing the design and engineering work. Therefore, if Treasury Board approves these expenditures, there is no reason why this project cannot get under way soon. Then I shall truly say after the next election, when I am sitting on the other side of the House and perhaps looking at the Minister for St. John's West sitting over here: "Thank you for your help with this Liberal project. It was time that it got under way".


Mr. Speaker, I have received hundreds of letters from constituents who are deeply troubled by the implications of the recent Supreme Court ruling on abortion. One woman writes:
I can't imagine women being so ecstatic about being able to kill their young, as demonstrated at the court's decision with the most dangerous man in Canada-Morgentaler.
Another woman laments:
1 am truly disgusted with our so-called justice system. If I don't speak for those thousands of unborn little babies, who will? Our society has now reached its lowest level possible: eliminating our own kind.
Another woman asks:
What sort of nation will this become if we allow the courts to pave the way for human destruction? If we are allowed to murder the helpless unborn, what will be next? The crippled? The sick, the-elderly?
I strongly encourage all Hon. Members of this House to review their position on this very vital issue. It is our responsibility to protect the lives of an overwhelming portion of a future generation.


Mr. Speaker, the budget Estimates which were made public yesterday clearly show that the Government of Canada is not concerned, nor committed, to fighting regional disparities. There can be no justification for a $70 million cut in the budget of the Cape Breton Development Corporation when unemployment in Cape Breton is running well above the national level.
The Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) loves to get up and speak about the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency and the money he has put into Atlantic Canada. The reality, however, is that the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency is a facade. He is cutting back federal moneys for the Cape Breton Development Corporation, taking that savings and putting it into the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. He then has the nerve, the audacity, to say that all this ACOA

February 24, 1988
money is new and old programs will not be affected. What a sham!
Cape Bretoners are not buying the wheeling and dealing of this Prime Minister. He is not fooling anyone, just himself, as he will find out in the next federal election.


Mr. Speaker, it is with great sorrow that we have learned of the accidental death of four Quebec Federation of Labour Officials: Guy Perreault, Director general, QFL Construction, Claude Proteau, Assistant director, Federation provinciate des ouvriers en electricity, Jean-Claude Sureau, of the Association nationale des travailleurs en tuyauterie; Gaetan Boucher, of the Association des mecaniciens industriels.
As these union officers died while performing their duties, we wish to offer our sympathy in this House to QFL President Louis Laberge, as well as to the families and friends of the victims. We also wish to offer our condolences to relatives and friends of the pilot and copilot, Jean Verriere and Gary Gadouas.


Mr. Speaker, since our Government came into office, in 1984, we have given great thought to the welfare of our youth, and this concern is expressed in the importance we attach to the programs conceived for them.
Moreover, Open House Canada, a very popular program, offers our young Canadian men and women exchange, travel and exploration opportunities within Canada, all year long.
From September 1984 to December 1987, the Progressive Conservative Government granted more than $115,000 under Open House Canada Programme in my Quebec-Est riding.
Indeed, through that program, the Government shows the importance it ascribes to the cultural and social development of our youth. We do invest vast amounts of money to guarantee our young people a most promising and enriching future.
Young Canadians can rest assured, Mr. Speaker, that the Progressive Conservative Government works hard for them. We must not forget that besides our support measures, there is
the free trade agreement that will secure all we have already and create hundreds of thousands of jobs for young people.


Mr. Speaker, this week the Standing Committee on Environment and Forestry will be hearing the first witnesses in an examination of alternatives to chemical pesticides. The committee is responding to the concerns expressed by Canadians over the heavy dependence on chemical pesticides in forestry, agriculture, urban settings, and around the garden. Chemical pesticides pose a threat to the users, those downwind, those who rely on surface and groundwater, birds, animals, fish, and wildlife in general.
Central to this issue is the system that we have to regulate new and existing pesticides in all their applications, which dates back to 1972. Clearly, the system is in need of being overhauled and modernized.
Therefore, we urge the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Wise) to launch a full and public review of the legislation and regulations affecting pesticides to determine the changes that should be made to protect health, the environment, and our water.


Mr. Speaker, this month marks the seventieth anniversary of the independence of the Baltic Republics of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. For barely a precious two decades these three small nations took their proud place among Woodrow Wilson's democracies- until their very existence was brutally crushed in the cynicism of the Hitler-Stalin pact.
Since 1940 the three Baltic peoples have withstood two invasions, post-war deprivation, deportation and retribution. Now, despite some improvement in creature comforts, they are subjected to constant loss of political liberty and daily attempts at Russification and, on this anniversary, with Soviet troop movements.
The spirit of freedom lives in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, Finding expression ranging from peaceful demonstrations through pamphleteering to self-immolation.
February 24, 1988


Mr. Speaker, why do members of the Government continue to avoid the truth about the New Democratic Party's support for Atlantic regional development and western diversification? Why do they make scurrilous comments about votes on Estimates in the House when they know that members of this Party have no direct opportunity to reply?
They know that in those Estimates they hid the legal bills for the former Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion in the amount of $650,000, a person who has been cited for 14 separate counts of breach of conflict of interest guidelines of the Government. To pay his legal bills was abhorrent to the people of Canada. The Government did not have the courage tc have a separate vote for this matter. It hid it in about $3 billion of Estimates for general programs, including the Atlantic Opportunities Agency and the Western Diversification Office.
Will they say we are also against old age pensions which were included in these same Estimates? The people of Canada are on to their hypocrisy. They know that the Government has failed in regional development and can only strike out against the Opposition.


THURSDAY, Jan. 28, 1988 will go down in the history of our country as 'Black Thursday', a day on which the Supreme Court 'sentenced countless unborn babies to death by abortion'.
These words, with which I concur, were issued by the assembled State Deputies of the Canadian Knights of Columbus.
I believe that the unborn child is a human being from the moment of conception. The decision of the Supreme Court, with two judges dissenting, does not change the law of God. We need strong legislation in accordance with biblical teachings to protect the lives of these innocent babies, 60,000 of whom were murdered in the womb in Canada last year.
I urge the Government to make it illegal to use abortion as a birth control measure. That will give thousands of unborn babies a chance to live, and it will bring glory and triumph to our nation.


Mr. Speaker, the forty-fourth session of the United Nations Human Rights Commission is now in progress in Geneva. On the agenda there are several resolutions of immense significance to aboriginal peoples in Canada and throughout the world.
These resolutions call for draft international standards on the treatment of indigenous peoples; the establishment of a study into treaties between nation-states and indigenous peoples; and the designation of the year 1992 as the International Year of Indigenous Rights.
Unanimously passed and recommended for approval by the United Nations Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, these resolutions are supported by aboriginal peoples in Canada and throughout the world.
Despite the enormous achievement passage of these resolutions would represent for indigenous peoples and indigenous rights, the Government of Canada is actively campaigning against them. Instead of grasping the opportunity to play a world leadership role, Canada is being obstructionist. Canada should stop its nit-picking and get behind these resolutions. This message should be communicated without delay to the Canadian officials who are in Geneva today.


Mr. Speaker, the chief organizer of the socialist party in the Province of Quebec, Mr. Remy Trudel, says that his criteria for being in politics are; honesty, honesty, honesty.
Two of his assistants, also political organizers in Abitibi, Mr. Michel Lemyre and Mr. Donald Houle, use and encourage others to use, for their phone calls, the code number given to another honest socialist, whose life is transparent and beyond reproach.
Mr. Speaker, in the provincial political organization of the NDP, in Abitibi, not only the telephone code number of the Hon. Member for Oshawa (Mr. Broadbent) is being used, but its use is also encouraged.
This is a dishonest use of taxpayer money by the socialist party. Is that the honesty of the socialist chief? How is he going to explain that to the House, today?

February 24, 1988
Oral Questions


In
the absence of the Minister of Communications, I have a question for-


Anything else you want to talk about?


There will be a lot of
things we want to talk about. I will wait for the Minister.

Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Communications.
This government's policy on film and on Telefilm Canada is marked by a lack of direction, incompetence, abuse of expense accounts, mass resignations and political interference. In short, it's a complete disaster.
Mr. Speaker, in the last two days in the House, the Minister made misleading statements, incorrectly quoted the wrong source about Telefilm Canada's debt and tabled only part of the Executive Director's letter of resignation.
Yesterday in the House, the Minister stated that the Canadian Film and Television Association fully supported Mr. Jean Sirois as Chairman of Telefilm Canada.
Will the Minister confirm today that, in fact, the Association's Chairman, Mr. John Ross, has asked for Mr. Jean Sirois' resignation?


Mr. Speaker, as I indicated yesterday, I heard from the President of the Canadian Film and Television Association and he had indicated both their ongoing concern about the problems with Telefilm, and their desire to get those problems corrected.
They raised the question of reorganization within Telefilm and asked me to ensure that there would be consultation between Telefilm and the film industry. I have undertaken to do that. Those consultations will be under way tomorrow with a letter that will be sent out from Telefilm inviting their proposals with regard to appointments.
I would mention, Mr. Speaker, that the appointments to date are of a temporary nature, they are for a limited period of time, until the naming of a full-time executive director of Telefilm.


Mr. Speaker, obviously the Minister was in great close touch with the Canadian Film and Television Association. Yesterday she said that the association approved Mr. Jean Sirois; today she admits that she received a letter and a notice from the President asking for the resignation of Mr. Jean Sirois. I am sure the House will be impressed by her very close contacts with the industry.
The Minister was advised by the Executive Director of Telefilm in his letter of resignation-and I am talking about the full letter of resignation which the Minister did not table- that Jean Sirois, her Conservative patronage appointee as Chairman of Telefilm, and I am using Mr. Pearson's words, "had engaged in expense account abuse, had helped arrange for financing for Hollywood movies instead of Canadian produced films, and had overstepped his mandate by providing financing for a film being made by a prominent Conservative in Quebec City".
The Minister was also provided with a legal opinion from the Department of Justice suggesting in strong terms that Mr. Sirois was overstepping his mandate as Chairman. What actions is she going to take about all these allegations?


Mr. Speaker, I would advise the Leader of the Opposition that if he has specific charges to lay, he should stand on his feet and lay them, and he should not resort to smear and innuendo as is his wont and the wont of his colleagues. He does that time after time. If he has any charge to make regarding impropriety, or anything of that nature, he can be sure it will be followed up, as I followed up with the financial difficulties of Telefilm to see that those financial difficulties had management plans established and had interim management personnel put into place so that once again we could say that Telefilm is a success story.
If he doubts for one minute that I have been in touch with the industry, I will quote once again from the letter that I received. It says-


Which one?


Which one?


From the President of the Canadian Film and Television Association. It says: "Telefilm Canada is a success story and will remain a crucial part of the success of the Canadian film and television industry, and the membership acknowledges your role and your staffs assistance in the gains we have made", and that is dated February 19.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps the Minister would be willing to table that letter. We are talking
February 24, 1988

about the complete letter, the full letter, not an edited version of it.
The allegations I was bringing to the attention of the House and the Minister were not my allegations. They were the allegations of the former Executive Director of Telefilm, Mr. Peter Pearson. 1 would be perfectly willing to table that incomplete letter rather than the abbreviated version that the Minister tabled yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, not only has the Minister allowed Telefilm to become almost a total mess, and not only does the Canadian Film and Television Association want Mr. Jean Sirois, a Conservative patronage appointee, to quit as Chairman, but the Government's over-all film policy is now being dictated by Hollywood movie moguls.
Why is it that the Minister allowed tax changes to be made at the request of American film producers? Why is it that she has not yet presented her legislation on Canadian film distribution in the House?


Right on.


What did you do when you had the chance, John?


Mr. Speaker-


A free trade sell-out.


Oh, oh!


The Hon. Minister.


Mr. Speaker, for the last 40 years the film industry in this country has been pressing various Governments to introduce legislation that would ensure that the Canadian film market is a separate entity for film rights. For 40 years, Mr. Speaker, it has been attempting to get that inequity corrected.
For most of that 40 years a Liberal Government was in office, and not once did they ever address the problems of the Canadian film industry in this country. Not once. However, I can assure you, Mr. Speaker, that we will be bringing in legislation to deal with that inequity.


Mr. Speaker, since the Minister has received Peter Pearson's letter of resignation and since she heard from Michael Spencer through Mr. Musgrove, why has she not investigated the documents which were offered to her about Chairman Jean Sirois and expenses in his expense account as well as his interference in the
Oral Questions
awarding of tens of thousands of Telefilm dollars to his Quebec City friends for the big show Rendezvous 871


Mr. Speaker, once again I say to these Hon. Members that if they have specific charges to lay imputing wrongdoing, why do they not have the courage to get up on their feet and do so? They are not satisfied. They want to smear and they want to create innuendo.
I have taken it upon myself to ensure that auditors were sent in to look at the differences in the financial situation of Telefilm Canada which were reported to us. At one point there was a lapse predicted of $53 million. Subsequently there was an over commitment predicted of $48 million, a difference of $100 million. I wanted to ensure that that situation was dealt with and, as a result, auditors were brought in, a new management team was put into place, and new management systems were introduced for the first time so that now Telefilm can be put on a substantial basis.
1 say to the Hon. Member that I am pleased Telefilm has been able to get itself out of the mess that it found itself in last year and I regret that the Hon. Member continues to try to undermine it.


Mr. Speaker, the important issue here is how to get help for feature films and for TV programs from the banking and financial institutions. That is what the Minister has failed to settle in this whole matter. The Minister is the one who is incompetent and the Minister is-


I would ask the Hon. Member to put a question.


Will the Minister suspend Chairman Jean Sirois now, name a new executive director, and launch a full investigation into what has been happening at Telefilm Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member says that nothing has been done with regard to funding for Telefilm Canada. We added $33 million a year for five years, a total of $165 million to the Telefilm fund so that any number of new Canadian films could be made. 1 want to assure you, Sir, that I am very proud of what has happened.
Un Zoo La Nuit which has won international fame has been funded by Telefilm Canada. I've Heard the Mermaids Singing has been funded by Telefilm Canada. Anne of Green Gables has been funded by Telefilm Canada. All of these great films, all of these great series, has been funded by Telefilm Canada. I happen to be very proud of what Telefilm Canada has done and 1 regret that the Hon. Member wants to try to destroy it.

February 24, 1988
Oral Questions PETRO-CANADA


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources. A few years ago a Conservative Government announced its intentions to privatize Petro-Canada. That same Government lost a subsequent federal election.
According to news reports today, the present Conservative Government is about to move in that direction once again.


Hear, hear!


Having heard his quaint voices from the past behind him, and considering that in the 1984 election there was no mandate for privatizing Petro-Canada, not a single speech made by the Leader of the Conservative Party in the 1984 election mentioned this, and considering that Petro-Canada is desired to be kept in the public sector by Canadians today, will the Minister comment on this press report and assure us that this abominable course of direction will not be taken by the Government?
[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, first I may remind the Hon. Member that the Canadian Socialist Party, better known as the NDP, is probably the one that suggested creating a Crown corporation in the oil sector, and it has never won an election. Its suggestion never brought it to power, Mr. Speaker.
I repeat that the Prime Minister, when leading the Opposition, made not a single reference to privatizing Petro-Canada during the 1984 election campaign.
Since certain U.S. Senators and Governors have recently objected to the Canadian tradition of having public-sector involvement in the economy, and specifically since Senator Baucus in a recent speech called such intervention a form of subsidy, will the Minister now admit that one of the real reasons the Government is about to re-run this old policy that is unacceptable to Canadians is recent pressure from the United States to do so? Will he admit that?


Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the Socialist Party is welcome to visit the riding of Frontenac at any time-before, during or after the election campaign-to discuss whatever he wants, including Petro-Canada.
As for the stand taken by certain U.S. senators or private citizens, I am not in the habit of taking orders from other countries.
* *
*


Second, this Government has a mandate to guarantee a market in the energy sector. Since 1984, this Government, in accordance with its mandate, has instructed Petro-Canada to operate on a commercial basis, and Petro-Canada has been doing just that, for the greater benefit of Canadians and Petro-Canada customers, since 1984.
Third, this Government also announced it would introduce a policy to privatize Crown corporations that are not considered to have a major policy role in Canada.
Fourth, since Petro-Canada is already operating on a commercial basis, we can conclude there is no major political role for Petro-Canada.
That is why, although the Cabinet has yet to make a decision at this time, the question of Petro-Canada is still being examined, both in my Department and in other government agencies.
Mr. Speaker, 1 hope the Minister will keep that up and will say all the things outside the House in the subsequent election campaign that he just said inside the House.


Mr. Speaker, ! did mention that there was no commitment to privatize Petro-Canada in the last election campaign, but 1 do have, from the Conservative policy campaign book of 1984, a statement which 1 would ask the Minister to comment on to see if he will maintain this. With reference to a Conservative Government, the handbook said:
We will adopt market sensitive pricing for exported natural gas, while
ensuring that Canadians always pay less than their American neighbours-
That was from the Conservative Party campaign commitment of 1984.
In light of the free trade agreement the Minister has entered into with the United States and recent policy statements, will he explain why the Conservatives have completely abandoned their commitment to Canadians to have lower prices?


Lyin' Brian, lyin' Brian.


Mr. Speaker, I do not want to talk-


Order, please.


We know where you got that one Eddie, from Bob White.


It's out of your handbook.
February 24, 1988

Oral Questions


I want to observe that often the Chair, in the exercise of common sense, chooses not to hear something. However, just a moment ago there was a remark which was clearly unparliamentary. I, of course, do not know who the Hon. Member was who made it and I am not interested in finding out at the moment. However, 1 am interested in making it clear that that remark was absolutely and utterly inappropriate and it did nothing to dignify these proceedings.
I would remind Hon. Members that when they do not have the floor and an open mike is available, however strongly they may feel they should not make their comments into the microphone of another Member when they are using language that is clearly inappropriate to this place.


Mr. Speaker, first of all, I can inform the Hon. Member that as far as export prices are concerned, the Socialist Party is hardly in a position to criticize, because that same Party wanted to prohibit all energy exports. This Party was elected on a specific platform, but it was also elected to protect the interests of Canada, including the interests of the Western provinces. As far as our energy policy is concerned, 1 think the leader of the Socialist Party should go to Alberta and talk to the people out there. He would realize that this Government's energy policy promotes the interests of Alberta, and that Albertans are well aware of this, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, the Government said that it would privatize Petro-Canada. It did not do it. Then it said it would wait until the market was right and it never was right. Now it is saying it will privatize it when it needs money for energy projects. This really tells Canadians that they have to accept privatization or they do not get those projects.
Why is the Government coercing the Canadian public into accepting something they do not want, something that will be devastating for this country?


Mr. Speaker, first of all, 1 wish the Liberal Party would explain what is so bad about privatizing Petro-Canada. Second, I would like to point out that the present Government will make a decision about privatizing Petro-Canada when it believes it is in the interests of Canada and Canadians to do so.


Mr. Speaker, what is wrong with privatizing Petro-Canada is that if one share of Petro-Canada is sold to the private sector, it can no longer be used as an instrument of public policy. There is no way whatsoever it can be used for public policy.
Why is the Government destroying the National Energy Board? Why is the Government bent on privatizing Petro-Canada, completely abandoning the Government's role and the investment of the people of Canada in the energy sector?


Mr. Speaker, I am surprised at the Hon. Member's position. T always thought that asking Canadians to own shares in Petro-Canada was hardly against their interests, and in fact, this is exactly what the Quebec Liberal Party is doing with its privatization program. It goes to show that Quebec has two Liberal Parties, the Socialist one in Ottawa and one that favours private enterprise in Quebec, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, I too have a question for the Minister of Energy. I would ask the Minister how he can rise in the House of Commons and claim there is no connection between this sellout of Petro-Canada and the trade deal with the United States when, in fact, one can see everything through the connections in pricing and through the connections in elimination of the control of our natural resources in the future. Why is the Minister prepared to sell out Petro-Canada and also tie it to the United States in a trade deal?


Mr. Speaker, the Socialist Party has one obsession, both in the House and outside, and that is the United States. This Government does not have that kind of obsession. It feels that Canadian policies for Canadians can serve both the interests of the United States and those of Canadians, because when we are talking about trade and the exchange of products between countries, we are talking about the interests of consumers and producers.


Mr. Speaker, this is a question of the future of Canadian independence in the energy field. Why is the Minister prepared to sacrifice this instrument of Canadian initiative, Canadian potential,

February 24, 1988
Oral Questions
Canadian policy, in order to get a trade deal that will not benefit anyone in this country?


Mr, Speaker, the Opposition is running out of issues to harp on. 1 can assure you that the policies and decisions of this Government with respect to Petro-Canada are formed and made here in Ottawa, by a Government elected by Canadians. Second, if the Government decides we should ask Canadians to buy shares in Petro-Canada and thus generate capital for mega-projects that will guarantee security of supply for Canadians, this will harm the interests of the NDP, not the interests of Canadians, Mr. Speaker!


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture. In the course of a study made Across the country, the National Farm Products Marketing Council realized that the table and seed segments of the potato growing industry face rapid and wide price fluctuations as well as uncertainty for the future. Could the Hon. Minister reassure our farm producers and tell them that, along with principal officials and the provinces, you are currently developing a strategy for the creation of a potato marketing agency that ensure stability and profitability of the markets, supervise quotas and bring long term growth to this whole area.


Mr. Speaker, 1 appreciate the Hon. Member's question. As he will realize, at the request of the industry 1 instructed the National Farm Products Marketing Council to carry out a study and a series of hearings and report to me. That process has been completed and the report advises that we proceed in two stages. Stage one is to establish the agency with all of the powers under the Act, Section 23, with the exception of those powers to supply and manage.
I want to assure the industry that we will be working very closely with it and the provinces to work out a plan that would indeed include supply management. I hope that would be possible in the not too distant future.


Mr. Sergio March! (York West): Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Immigration and concerns the actions of the Government in the never-ending saga of this convicted terrorist which is embarrassing Canadians, pitting one Department against the other, and showing new low levels of incompetence, even for that Government.
Since the Government organized Mr. Mohammad's voluntary departure, can he finally be open with Canadians and explain how the plan was bungled, why Mr. Mohammad was prohibited from continuing his journey beyond London, England, and why the Minister failed to resolve any last minute difficulties by involving the Department of External Affairs rather than keeping it in the dark?
[ Translation]
Mr. Speaker, I think I was quite clear about yesterday's events. I will repeat what I said for my colleague's benefit. First, we were approached . . . The Government had always clearly stated that it would facilitate Mr. Mohammad's departure whether it is voluntary or through a deportation order, as we are doing now. Mr. Mohammad contacted CEIC officials and his lawyer suggested a voluntary departure based on deals and procedures that they themselves arranged. The Government is only facilitating Mr. Mohammad's departure from Canada with security measures and a certificate of identity. My hon. colleague will have to admit one thing unless he is against Mr. Mohammad's departure . .. But this would not be the first time his Party has conflicting positions. However now that Mr. Mohammad is back in Canada, for whatever reason he had, we are going on with the deportation procedure and the Government will not rest before he is out of the country.


Mr. Speaker, the reality remains that this episode has been one giant comedy of government errors, incompetence and bungling. Canadians want to know when it is going to come to an end.


My supplementary is directed to the same Minister, Mr. Speaker. If the problem in London, England, was the lack of a proper visa or other document, can the Minister inform this House what precise actions he or the Government took to overcome that shortcoming? In fact, is the Minister telling Canadians that he was unable to arrange one single and simple visa? Is this a priority or not, and is the Government capable of completing a plan from start to finish without it ending up a charade from one coast to the other?
February 24, 1988


Mr Speaker, what the Government has tried to do is to make sure that Mr. Mohammad could leave the country as soon as possible. This is surprising coming from the Liberal Party when we have been trying for eight months to pass legislation to deal expeditiously with smugglers. Take a look at the Liberal Party, Mr. Speaker ... They never have a definite position. For goodness' sake, let us know what your position is!


Mr. Speaker, my question is also directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration. I appreciate his attemps to solve the conflict between Mr. Mohammad and the Immigration Appeal Board in a way acceptable to both parties, and I hope that in spite of the comments attributed to him in The Globe and Mail today, the Minister will not blame either Mr. Mohammad or his counsel for the failure of that project.
My question to the Minister is this: Would the Minister confirm, in relation with the comments attributed to Mr. Saleh by The Globe and Mail, that the Canadian Security Intelligence Service has, in communicating the news to the media, stopped that project?


Mr. Speaker, I can advise the Hon. Member that the travel arrangements were as set out by my colleague, the Minister of Employment and Immigration. They were made by Mr. Mohammad and his lawyers and friends. They were discussed with my colleague, the Minister. The RCMP provided protective surveillance. CSIS was not involved in any way whatsoever with the travel arrangements or this particular case.


Mr. Speaker, since it has been alleged by Mr. Saleh that CSIS failed to keep its part of an agreement, and in view of conflicting suggestions in the media, will the Minister of Immigration, the one who was attempting to produce a positive result in this difficult situation, undertake to report as soon as possible to this House on why this humane project failed?


Mr. Speaker, I think I have essentially answered this question earlier when I mentioned that Mr. Mohammad had decided himself of the steps taken by him and his advisers to leave the country. The reasons why he did not
Oral Questions
succeed have nothing whatsoever to do with the Government action but result of steps taken by Mr. Mohammad himself.
And I believe that in all that has been said yesterday by his counsel and by concerned witnesses, no mention was ever made of any government responsibility.
As for the Hon. Member's question, Mr. Speaker, I can assure my colleague that I have never said ... I have never blamed Mr. Mohammad, his counsels or his advisers.


Mr. Speaker, are you sure the cameras come down to this corner? As I started to say 24 hours ago, before I was interrupted, I have a question for the Minister of Transport concerning Air Canada's policy on overseas air fares.
I think the Minister is aware that Air Canada announced air fares that provide a fare of S388 for those flying from Toronto to London while, at the same time, the fare from Halifax to London is $488. I do not have to tell the Minister what a concern that is to people from Atlantic Canada. We know that air Canada should be committed to equality in its policy across Canada. Will he investigate this discrepancy and report to the House as soon as possible? In the meantime, will he instruct Air Canada to exercise some fairness in airline policy?


Mr. Speaker, I have a great deal of sympathy with the Hon. Member because the situation with respect to fares from Newfoundland to London, England, is definitely unfair as well.


Do something about it, then.


What are we going to do about it? The thing is, Mr. Speaker, that no one can understand airline fares. Why I should be expected to understand them, is beyond me.


Oh, oh!


Hear, hear.


Even if questions do not always elicit information, that one certainly received a frank response.


Oh, oh!

February 24, 1988
Oral Questions HOUSE OF COMMONS


I wish to bring to the attention of Members the presence in the gallery of the Honourable Stevenson King, Minister of Community Development, St. Lucia.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. It concerns Terminal 3 at Pearson International Airport. Yesterday in a briefing by the Minister's officials in Toronto, one key element was left unsettled. Officials indicated that the bidders expected to be permitted some financial comfort from the Government. Two of the bidders deny this. Documentation was furnished to the bidders when they were preparing their proposals and officials did not make that documentation public.
If the Minister wants to support the argument that financial comfort was available, why will he not make these documents public so that Canadians can see exactly what the developers were told about the arrangements?


Mr. Speaker, yesterday in Toronto the committee in charge of this project gave a full explanation which I am told satisfied everyone who was there except the Hon. Member, who was quoted in the paper as saying: "We continue to be suspicious about the whole affair".
It is impossible to quiet the suspicions of the Liberal Party about anything. They have no policy, no program, no principles, and no decency. All they try to do is spread suspicion about everything. This is one project where even their best efforts will not get anybody suspicious about anything.


Mr. Speaker, the officials would not make public the documents which they claim indicate that financial comfort was available. Two of the people who got the documents deny that they contain that assurance about financial comfort. Why will the Minister not settle it by making them public?


Mr. Speaker, perhaps the hon. gentleman wants to tell us who it was in these two development companies, to whom they spoke, and so on. The officials have stated the fact that all proposals
called for persons interested to disclose their financial plan. They were all invited to do that.
As far as the documents are concerned, once the ground lease is signed with the winning developer whose bid was found by the committee and Treasury Board to be significantly superior to all others financially in both net present value and rate of return to Transport Canada, and after all conditions precedent are met, I see no reason why these documents should not be made available to the Standing Committee on Transport or other responsible authority.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Hon. Minister for Communications.
Yesterday she indicated that Mr. Jean Sirois, chairman of the board at Telefilm Canada, had the confidence of the industry. Today we find that Mr. John Ross, a major spokesman for the industry, has asked for Mr. Sirois's resignation.
My question is simple: Does the Hon. Minister still have confidence in Mr. Jean Sirois?


Mr. Speaker, yesterday I referred to a letter that I had received from the President of the Canadian Film and Television Association. I quoted from it and will do so again. He wrote to me saying: "We share your distress over recent attempts to make political mileage out of, what for us, was old news". He went on: "We have been working with Jean Sirois in trying to get everything ready for a new Executive Director". I have quoted from this letter and will be very pleased to table it at three o'clock.


Mr. Speaker, I want to know whether the Minister still has confidence in Jean Sirois. Has the Minister read the letter that was referred to by the Leader of the Opposition? It is a letter from Mr. Pearson in which he says there is strident aggressive intervention on the part of Mr. Sirois, and he makes allegations that the expense accounts would not bear public scrutiny. He said that Mr. Sirois criticized some of the staff for being "rouge". These are not our allegations, but the allegations in the letter.
What will the Minister do about this mess? Does she still have confidence in Mr. Jean Sirois? Is she prepared to refer this to a committee of inquiry to get to the bottom of it?
February 24, 1988


Mr. Speaker, the other day I quoted from the letter from Mr. Pearson. I quote to the effect that he said, among other things: "I must also note for the record, the distinguished contribution of your party in the area of film and television production. From September, 1984, the Progressive Conservative Government has lived up to their commitment to strengthen Canadian production with dedication and with effort".
That is what was in the letter that I tabled the other day in the House and from which I quoted.
If the Hon. Member has charges to make against anyone in the organization whatsoever, bring them forward to me and I will see that they will be investigated. However, allegations, smear, and innuendo do not constitute the basis for investigation. Surely the Member would want to stand in his place and make the specific charges to which he seems to be alluding. I can assure him I will follow them up.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Secretary of State for External Affairs my question is directed to the Solicitor General. I begin by thanking him and his officials, as well as the Secretary of State for External Affairs and his officials, for their interest and concern in the case of a Nova Scotia person by the name of Bruce Curtis who is incarcerated in a New Jersey jail.
The Minister will know that Canada and the United States signed a Transfer of Offenders Treaty which has subsequently been ratified by the state Government of New Jersey. Will the Minister explain to the House why there is such delay in New Jersey by Governor Kean with regard to releasing Bruce Curtis so he may come to Canada and be incarcerated in a Canadian penal institution?


Mr. Speaker, 1 can advise the Hon. Member and Members of the House that his facts are quite correct. Indeed, the treaty was passed by our two countries and has been implemented by the State of New Jersey. Under the terms of that agreement, both the State of New Jersey and the federal Government would have to agree to the transfer. We have no objections whatsoever and we are prepared to facilitate it, but, first of all, New Jersey must make the decision to agree to it. We are awaiting its approval, which we hope will be forthcoming.
Committee Reports


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is directed to the same Minister. The Minister must be aware that the assurances being sought by the state Government, particularly Governor Kean, are beyond the provisions of the treaty. In essence, what they are attempting to do is amend a consummated legal binding treaty signed by Canada and the United States.
Will the Minister undertake to the House that he will make representations to the United States Government to have it live up to the provisions of the treaty it has signed and agreed to? Will the Minister come back to the House and give us an accounting as to why it has been so long that this young Nova Scotian has been incarcerated in a New Jersey jail?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to advise the Hon. Member that, under the terms of the agreement, we are in no position to force the State of New Jersey to agree to this exchange. However, I can advise the Hon. Member that my colleague, the Secretary of State for External Affairs, on October 29, 1987, and February 8, 1988, wrote to the Governor of New Jersey requesting implementation by the State of the provisions of this agreement. I am hopeful that these letters written by the Secretary of State for External Affairs will bring forth a favourable response from the State of New Jersey.


Mr. Speaker, I mentioned during Question Period that I wished to table a letter from the President of the Canadian Film and Television Association.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present the twelfth report of the Standing Committee on Private Members' Business in both official languages.
This report deals with the selection of votable items pertaining to the tenth draw which took place on February 9, 1988.

February 24, 1988
Introduction of Bills


for leave to introduce Bill C-113, an Act to promote the development and diversification of the economy of Western Canada, to establish the Department of Western Economic Diversification and to make consequential amendments to other Acts.


Is it the pleasure of the House that the Right Hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney ) shall have leave to introduce the Bill?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
for leave to introduce Bill C-114, an Act to provide for greater certainty in the reconciliation of the personal interests and duties of office of Members of the Senate and of the House of Commons, to establish a Conflict of Interest Commission and to make consequential amendments to other Acts.


Shall the Right Hon. the Prime Minister have leave to introduce the Bill?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
When shall the Bill be read the second time? At the next sitting of the House?


Agreed.


for leave to introduce Bill C-284, an Act to amend the Criminal Code (surrogacy arrangements).


Is it the pleasure of the House that the Hon. Member shall have leave to introduce the Bill?


Agreed.


In brief, Mr. Speaker, the intention of this Bill is to make it illegal for anyone to make a profit out of either arranging or participating in surrogacy arrangements. It is a first step and I would hope that we would have a chance to debate this Bill at some point in the near future.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Mr. Speaker, it is my privilege to present two petitions this afternoon pursuant to Standing Order 106.
The first petition is from a number of constituents who point out that the Conservative Government has no mandate from the Canadian people to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States. They believe that the proposed trade deal would deny Canada the policy freedom to determine its own economic future and thereby undermine our ability to build a society distinct from that of the United States.
Therefore, the petitioners ask Parliament to now dissolve and allow the people of Canada the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed trade deal during a national general election.


Mr. Speaker, my second petition is from a number of residents of central British Columbia. They point out that the West Kootenay Power and Light Company, with attendant water licences, was sold outright to UtiliCorp United Inc. of Kansas City, Missouri, in the United States. They point out that Canadians are expressedly prohibited from similar outright purchases in the United States by U.S. law, and the 8,673 consumers in the West Kootenay Power and Light Company service area have signed a petition protesting the sale.
Therefore, they call upon Parliament to pass a law requiring majority ownership by Canadians of electrical utilities, dams and water licences so that Canadians citizens will be afforded protection of their sovereignty equal to that enjoyed by citizens of the United States.


Mr. Speaker, I have a petition that has been sponsored by the National Anti-Poverty Organization which states that the Canadian Council on Social Development estimates that more than 100,000 people
February 24, 1988

were homeless at one time or another during 1986 in Canada, that an increasing number of young people, women and entire families have joined the ranks of the homeless despite a healthy Canadian economy, and that the number of affordable dwellings for low-income people is dwindling constantly and soup kitchens and emergency shelters are only temporary measures, not permanent solutions.
Therefore the petitions call upon the Government of Canada to act immediately to establish the necessary measures to ensure that homeless and poorly lodged Canadians, first, live in adequate and healthy housing, and, second, have access to a variety of rehabilitation programs in order to reintegrate into Canadian society.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition signed by a number of residents of the City of Winnipeg. They state that the Conservative Government had no mandate from the Canadian people to conclude a free trade agreement with the United States and that the proposed trade agreement would deny Canada policy freedom to determine its own economic future and undermine our ability to build a society distinct from that of the U.S.
Therefore, the petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to dissolve and allow the people of Canada the opportunity to accept or reject the proposed free trade agreement during a national general election.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour, duty and pleasure to present three petitions. One is signed by citizens of the Queen City of Regina. Another is signed by other residents of Regina, Swift Current, and Chaplin, Saskatchewan. The petitioners include citizens of the wonderful Town of Abbey, Saskatchewan, where, Mr. Speaker, you will be happy to know I was station agent years ago.
Whereas the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) promised in the course of bilateral trade negotiations that Canadian sovereignty would not be compromised and that the proposed trade agreement not only denies Canadians secure access to the U.S. market, which was the key objective in these negotiations, but threatens the jobs of hundreds of 