Mr. Speaker, the parade goes on at Canada Post. The parade of allegations of deplorable management, sexual harassment, bribery, fascist tactics, human degradation, unfair dismissal, and reprisals against employees. This parade of allegations started in Toronto and is now clearly evident in Ottawa.
Yesterday, I listened to an employee who worked in security for Canada Post. He stated that wallets placed in the postal system for safe return to their owners were stripped of cash and then discarded at the instruction of supervisors. These wallets often contained drivers' licences and other proper identification but still were not returned by Canada Post. He also alleged that keys with tags issued by the War Amputations of Canada organization were often discarded as scrap metal.
The losers in this deplorable internal battle in Canada Post are the Canadian people. Canadians deserve a postal system that operates properly. I demand the Minister carry out an unbiased investigation of Canada Post. The Minister must investigate these allegations through a royal commission.


Mr. Speaker, the right of the beautiful city of Beauport in my riding to join the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League for the 1990-91 season was confirmed last weekend. That decision follows numerous representations by Swiss developer Jurg Staubli, supported by Beauport citizens including Mayor Jacques Langlois and lawyer Frangois-Xavier Simard.
Mr. Staubli and his team also plan to build in Beauport a World Trade Centre at a cost exceeding $25 million.
Congratulations and best wishes of success to all those who contribute to economic growth and sports development in Beauport as well as the entire beautiful Quebec city region.


Mr. Speaker, the behaviour of some Members from both sides of the House during Question Period is totally unacceptable to the people of Canada. Not only are we calling upon ourselves the disgust and justifiable disillusionment of all Canadians, we are in danger of bringing this House and our institutions into disrespect.
Therefore, I offer you my total support and I respectfully request and urge you to use every rule and custom at your disposalto stop the outrageously long preambles, declare unacceptable the innuendo and character assassinations, and demand that both questions and answers be precise, tough and courteously put and answered.

May 31, 1989
I ask and urge all Members to remember who we are, where we are, and why we are here. It is our collective responsibility to ensure that all Canadians can be proud of our democratic institutions, let alone their elected representatives.


Mr. Speaker, the much vaunted agreement that was reached yesterday at the NATO talks as a result of negotiations between the Americans, the Germans, and other NATO countries in our opinion has one fatal flaw. It is predicated on a guarantee that there will be no elimination of short-range nuclear weapons.
It seems to me that any negotiation and any agreement worthy of this planet would have been one at least to head toward the elimination of these weapons. I think the Government of Canada, the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney), and the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Clark) are not doing themselves any service by boasting about an agreement in which they had a part, the essence of which is the preservation of short-range nuclear weapons.
Short-range nuclear weapons are the most dangerous kinds of nuclear weapons because they have to be used within minutes of any kind of incident. They are precisely the kinds of weapons the Government should be committed to removing, not partially reducing and thereby preserving.


Mr. Speaker, I rise in this House to express an overwhelming Canadian point of view in supporting and encouraging the restraint and tolerance being demonstrated thus far in China.
I am particularly impressed by the spirit of democracy expressed by His Excellency Wan Li, Chairman of the National People's Congress, during his recent stay in
Canada, and support the commitment he has made to: "firmly protect the patriotic enthusiasm of the young people in China".
I am also heartened by the tolerance shown by the People's Liberation Army. It was not lightly that a captain said: "We will not shoot the people. We are veiy tolerant".
I ask the Government of Canada to encourage the Chinese authorities to end martial law as soon as possible in order to progress toward greater democracy and tolerance in China.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to express my concern for a very serious problem that arises out of certain definitions in the Free Trade Agreement.
Annex 1502.1 of Schedule 2 in the agreement lists geological technicians but not geologists among those persons who are able to move freely to provide their services on both sides of the border. This is of particular concern to geologists in Alberta, as Alberta is the only province which specifically licenses and regulates the practice of professional geologists. In other provinces they are free to classify themselves as geological technicians, or they may practise as geological engineers. Engineers are also on the approved list.
I appeal to the Minister for International Trade (Mr. Crosbie) to seek some way of obtaining an administrative ruling that will allow professional geologists in Alberta to be recognized as the equivalent of geological engineers in the other provinces pending the outcome of negotiations to have geologists included in the list of approved professions in Schedule 2 of the agreement.


Mr. Speaker, the crisis in Lebanon is certainly not a new situation. In fact, the fighting in this region has now lasted more than 15 years. The most unfortunate news is that it grows

constantly worse, not better. Officials in the Department of External Affairs tell us that since the fall of last year the crisis has reached levels never previously seen.
In 1976, during the last escalated period of turmoil in Lebanon the Liberal Party established special immigration programs to deal with the vast number of Lebanese who wished to leave their troubled country for a better life in Canada. This resulted in 12,000 Lebanese immigrants to our country.
To date, the only action taken has been to open an office in Nicosia, Cypress, a country in which Canada has no official diplomatic status. This action is not adequate, as this tiny office has but one federal officer to deal with an average daily influx of between 200 and 300 Lebanese people per day.
I call upon the Minister to expand the facilities available so that the Lebanese who wish to immigrate can do so as quickly as legally possible.


Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to bring to the attention of the House a most inspiring project initiated by Cumberland County Family Planning in Amherst, Nova Scotia. This group, under the leadership of Ruthie Patriquin, the Community Director, recognized an area of education taken for granted in public schools but not available for hearing handicapped-that of sex education for youth.
Once the problem was identified they applied to the Department of National Health and Welfare for funding assistance to write, direct, and produce a professional quality video and accompanying user's guidebook.
Cumberland County Family Planning is to be commended for this innovative and needed project for the hearing handicapped. I am pleased to say that funding has been approved. The project is now under way under the supervision of Linda Franchi, Project Co-ordinator. It will employ hearing handicapped as directors, actors, and production staff.
Interest in this video indicates that it will fill a void nationally and maybe even internationally.
Anyone requiring further information is urged to contact my office.


Mr. Speaker, they are at it again. Thanks to the Conservative's Budget, the CBC is once again examining the reduction if not the elimination of regional radio and regional television services. That was tried by the CBC in the past and failed. This time the cuts may be even more disastrous for Canadians.
The rumours are that there will be only one CBC radio station left in each province. If that is true, then in Ontario the stations in Thunder Bay, Windsor, Sudbury, and Ottawa are in danger of being made into small news gathering storefronts and if they are lucky at getting on to the mother station once in a blue moon.
In Alberta, which station will they close, Edmonton or Calgary? That battle would make the Flames and Oilers rivalry look very simple.
What about B.C.? Does this rumour spell the end to regional services throughout that province?
Whatever the truth to these rumours you can bet, Mr. Speaker, that this caucus and the people of Canada will once again stop the Government from undermining our regional radio and television services.


Mr. Speaker, on a Radio-Nord broadcast in Val d'Or journalist Andre Lavoie described two new native leaders in Canada, lawyer Romeo Saganash and Tracy Michel. Romeo Saganash has recently completed his law studies at the University of Quebec in Montreal. He is the first Cree lawyer in Quebec and is already working to establish an all-Cree legal system. Tracy Michel comes from British Columbia. She is the first native woman in Canada to fly a commercial plane. She works for Air Creebec of Val d'Or in Abitibi.
Mr. Speaker, those are two fine examples of the new native generation of whom the Cree nation as well as ourselves can be proud.

May 31, 1989


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister.
Either the Conservative Government is playing a most dangerous game conspiring to hide the truth on the one hand and bullying anyone who reveals the truth on the other, or the Government lost control during a crisis to a group of bureaucrats. In either case the result for Canadians is both disturbing and fundamentally wrong.
The Minister of Finance took 28 days to tell the House the story that he did not know about the Mutual Life leak during Question Period on April 27.
The Deputy Prime Minister took three days to tell us the same story.
We are now at day 35 of this scandal and Canadians have still not heard from the Prime Minister's own mouth exactly what he claims he heard about the leak to Mutual Life.
During his overseas trip-


Question!


My question to the Prime Minister is this: When and how did he learn of the Mutual Life leak? When he did learn, why did he not immediately report to Parliament?


Mr. Speaker-


Hear, hear!


I was advised by the Clerk of the Privy Council about the telephone call from Mutual Life some time between 3.30 and 4 o'clock in the afternoon of April 27.
I was also advised by Mr. Tellier, the Clerk of the Council, that appropriate action had been taken, that the matter had been referred to the RCMP as part of their investigation which was already under way into this whole matter. I hope that satisfies my right hon. friend.
Oral Questions


Hear, hear!


No, Mr. Speaker, we are not satisfied with that.


We have a parliamentary system of government. We only have this Parliament which represents the Canadian people. And when Cabinet Ministers mislead Parliament for 35 days, they mock our parliamentary system and the people are misled.


Order!


Would the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition please put his question?


Mr. Speaker, if the Prime Minister had already been informed around 3.30 p.m., why did he not immediately reveal the second budget leak, the one to Mutual of Canada, to Parliament, since he had promised this House the same day, April 27, at 3 p.m., half an hour earlier, that any new information would be immediately reported to the Parliament of Canada? Why did he hide the truth for 35 days?


Mr. Speaker, first of all, we must vigorously refute the Opposition Leader's allegation that the Minister of Finance misled Parliament, when the Minister of Finance provided full and complete answers. He speaks of the Prime Minister's obligation to report to the House. In fact, as reported on page 1035 of Hansard for April 27, following a question by the Hon. Member for Bumaby-Kingsway, and I quote:

However, the Solicitor General has said if any information comes to him, he will report to the House immediately-
The Solicitor General has said, precisely at page 1032, and I quote him carefully:

The investigation is underway, Mr. Speaker, and as soon as we have the facts, the findings, we will be able to disclose them.
So, indeed, Mr. Speaker, the commitment I gave to the House has been followed to the letter. The information had already been reported by the Solicitor General and
May 31, 1989

my answer, like the Solicitor General's, was complete. If the Leader of the Opposition desires additional information, I will be pleased to provide it to him.


I say to the Prime Minister: don't play games with the House of Commons and the people of Canada.


Hear, hear!


I say to him: don't play with words and don't hide the truth.


Oh, oh!


The Right Hon. Leader will put his question.


Mr. Speaker, for 35 days the Prime Minister and his top Ministers have hidden the truth from the people of Canada.


Hear, hear!


In his response today he has corroborated what the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have told us, namely, that for two hours the three senior Ministers of the Government did not know.
My question to the Prime Minister is: In those circumstances, since bureaucrats were controlling what the Ministers and the Prime Minister knew about an essential fact, why does he not agree to my motion to call those three senior gentlemen before the bar of the House of Commons so that we can get the facts about why the truth was hidden from the people of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, we have all become used to the Leader of the Opposition denigrating members of the cabinet and members of the government, but even for the Leader of the Opposition it is a first for him to try to tarnish the reputations of distinguished public servants. The Leader of the Opposition, as a former Prime Minister, should know better.
The decisions on the night before were taken by the Prime Minister, with his Cabinet colleagues-
Oral Questions
An Hon. Member What are you afraid of?


Not you, that's for sure.


I am attempting to respond to the Leader of the Opposition.
An Hon. Member Answer the question.


On the evening that budget information was made public by a reporter, my first instruction to the Minister of Finance was to ask the Leader of the Opposition for the permission to come before the House.


Oh, oh!


In the absence of that, I instructed the Minister of Finance to make the budget measures public immediately. I also requested that a Royal Canadian Mounted Police investigation be undertaken immediately. That undertaking was followed. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police investigation was ongoing from the night before.
The information that was imparted by the Clerk of the Council to me after Question Period on the following day was very much consistent with that investigation. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police began the night before with their investigation. They followed it carefully and fully, and it resulted in the laying of charges. Anything else would have been to interfere with the independence-


Oh, oh!


-of an RCMP investigation and prejudice the rights of the accused, and that we will not do.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Prime Minister. It deals with the explanation that the Government has been giving us for its ignorance of the leak for a two-hour period.
The Government wants us to believe that the reason officials did not report the Mutual Life leak to Ministers at once was that the decision had been made the day before to release the Budget to the media, and that all of the rest was immaterial and flowed from that.
In other words, isn't the Prime Minister telling us and wasn't the Deputy Prime Minister telling us the other day that they had given instructions to officials not to

May 31, 1989
Oral Questions
give them further information about leaks and allegations, to keep them in the dark-


Oh, oh!


-so they could benefit from being able to deny that they had information? Now that he is back, does the Prime Minister believe on reflection that that is an acceptable direction for Ministers to give to their officials: Keep us in the dark?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I think the question contains suggestions which bring discredit upon the Hon. Member as a former Solicitor General-


Oh, oh!


-and is deeply offensive to senior members of the Public Service of Canada even to imply that they would ever accept such a suggestion from anybody. The Hon. Member should rise right now from his seat and apologize to the Clerk of the Privy Council, the Deputy Minister of Finance, and all the public servants of Canada who deserve better from the Hon. Member.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, if it was not the Prime Minister's direction or his other Ministers' direction to officials not to give them further information, why did they not give them further information?


Mr. Speaker, I have already said that the Clerk of the Council, Mr. Tellier, informed me, as he properly should have-


Two hours later.


-when the information was brought to his attention. When the information had come to the attention of the Deputy Minister of Finance on a telephone call, the day after the Budget-


That took two hours!


If the Member is interested in the response, I will try to give it to him.
When the call came to Mr. Gorbet, the Deputy Minister of Finance, he acted-


What time?


-in an appropriate and timely way.


How?


He verified the information. He consulted immediately with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. He passed on the information to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police who were already investigating-


Oh, oh!


-this matter pursuant to a request the evening before. The inquiry was ongoing. This information was imparted by public servants to the Royal-


That took two hours!


-Canadian Mounted Police. The Clerk of the Council informed me in a timely and complete way, as he did the Deputy Prime Minister when he was advised-


And the Minister of Finance.


-when Mr. Tellier was advised.


A two-hour gap.


This information comes directly from the Clerk of the Council, Mr. Paul Tellier, and Mr. Fred Gorbet. They have made the proper explanations which I convey to the House. I know my hon. friend will believe those explanations because they come from distinguished and non-political public servants.


Oh, oh!


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have another question for the Prime Minister. He just informed the House that he, as Prime Minister, was not informed of Mr. Masterman's telephone call until 3.30 p.m. Perhaps the Prime Minister could answer the following question: Which Minister was the first to be informed about Mr. Masterman's call? When was that Minister informed? Was he informed before, during or after Question Period?


Mr. Speaker, I already answered that question. As Prime Minister, I was informed between 3.30 and 4.00 p.m. In other words, it was after Question Period. I was informed by the Clerk of the Privy Council and Secretary to the Cabinet, Mr. Paul Tellier, who himself had been informed by Mr. Fred Gorbet, Deputy Minister of Finance. The information was quickly passed on to me by Mr. Tellier, and that is the answer I already gave the Leader of the Opposition.


Mr. Speaker, I asked the question because yesterday in the House the Deputy Prime Minister said that to his knowledge no Minister was told prior to Question Period. I want to make sure that no Minister, including the Minister of Justice and the Solicitor General, was told during Question Period and, if some Minister was told, we should be informed of that now by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister should also tell us why there was a 90-minute gap between the Masterman phone call and when the Prime Minister of Canada was told. That is highly irresponsible.


Mr. Speaker, I have already answered that the Deputy Minister of Finance received the information in a telephone call, I am informed, sometime in the neighbourhood of 1.30 p.m. He immediately conveyed the information to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. As a responsible public servant would do, he sought to convey this to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police through his own security people. He sought verification. He then went immediately to consult and to advise the Clerk of the Privy Council, who having been advised called me when I returned to my office after Question Period.


Two hours later.


I was informed between 3.30 and four o'clock, pursuant to actions taken by the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Clerk of the Privy Council, both of whom acted in a proper and timely manner. I convey that information to my hon. friend as I did to the Leader of the Opposition.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, does the Prime Minister not find it strange that these senior officials of the Government would not inform the Prime Minister for 90 minutes? Is it not strange that the Minister of Finance was not informed and that the Solicitor General was not informed? Isn't it strange that the Minister of Justice was not informed by the most senior officials in the Government of Canada? And finally, Mr. Speaker, when the Prime Minister did find out, and after there was a meeting on this issue after 3 o'clock in one of the offices of the Prime Minister, why didn't the Prime Minister come to the House? Or why didn't the Minister of Finance come to the House on a question of privilege, as we were dealing with privilege that afternoon anyway, and tell the House about this very serious leak?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend asks if there was a meeting on this matter after three o'clock and the answer to that is no. My hon. friend asks about coming to the House. I had already the night before instructed the Minister of Finance to make the Budget public, had requested that the Royal Canadian Mounted Police initiate immediateiy-


Oh, oh!


This information was made part and parcel of an ongoing Royal Canadian Mounted Police inquiry that had been initiated the night before. To have impeded that inquiry in any way would have been to render a disservice to the pursuit of justice in that particular inquiry and to the rights of those who may or may not have been charged subsequent thereto.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. It concerns the second or the so-called Mutual Life Budget leak. The Minister of Finance has admitted to the House of Commons over recent days that on April 27, sometime between three and five o'clock in the afternoon, the so-called Government, in the broad sense, in other words Cabinet, took the decision to hide the second Budget leak from Parliament and from the people of Canada.

Oral Questions


Oh, oh!


Now, as incredible as it is that the Prime Minister or any other Cabinet Minister would not have been notified of the Budget leak for two hours, I want to ask the Prime Minister specifically, he who is the chief executive officer of the Government across the way, why did he take the decision not to tell that information to the House of Commons and to the people of Canada? Why hide the facts?


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, the suggestion that the Government took a decision to hide information from the people of Canada is, of course, an absolute and complete fabrication and falsehood by the Hon. Member.


Hear, hear!


I will inform my hon. friend again, and perhaps if he listens carefully he may want to reflect upon this before he raises any more charges against public servants or Members of the House.
The information came to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Fred Gorbet. Immediately after 1.30 p.m. he began to contact the RCMP to advise them to verify information and to check back with the source. He consulted and advised the Secretary of the Cabinet and the Clerk of the Privy Council. This was done and information was conveyed to me by Mr. Tellier between 3.30 p.m. and four o'clock in the afternoon. This information was absolutely consistent with the information that the police were no doubt seeking in their inquiry that had already been unleashed the night before, of which the House had full knowledge. All of this information was then being acquired in a proper and normal way by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, which has always served Canada by acting in an independent and proper manner.


Mr. Speaker, at page 2147 of Hansard and on several other pages it is stated that the Government, in the broadest sense, was aware of this information some time between Question Period and 5.40 p.m. that evening.
I want to tell the Prime Minister those are not nice words that he said about his Minister of Finance.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put the following supplementary to the Prime Minister concerning the conduct of his Minister of Finance.
On April 27, at page 1032 of Hansard, the Prime Minister said, in referring to the Minister, and I quote:
-the Minister has always discharged his responsibilities, in this case as well.
Considering the fact that the Minister, aided and abetted by the rest of Cabinet, chose to hide this information from the House of Commons for one month, does the Prime Minister still think the Minister acted in a responsible manner in this case? Should he not be called to Parliament today and asked to resign?


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance has served Canada and this House with great honour and perhaps one day, if the Hon. Member really changes his ways, he might aspire to the kind of honour achieved by the Minister of Finance.


Hear, hear!


I acknowledge that would take almost a miracle because the Minister of Finance has no lessons to take from that Member in terms of propriety and honour.


Oh, oh!


I am asked whether the Government was informed, and the Hon. Member used the terms 'in the broad sense'. Of course the Government, in the broad sense, was informed. When the Deputy Minister of Finance was notified, he in turn notified the Secretary to the Cabinet and Clerk of the Privy Council. Indeed, as the Minister of Finance said, the Government 'in the broad sense' was notified, and all action taken by the Government and by the Minister of Finance was perfectly consistent with the statement made the day before, namely that a police investigation was already under way and that we would let the police finish its investigation.
May 31, 1989


Mr. Speaker, the House and Canadians know that on April
27	Jack Masterman, Chief Executive Officer of Mutual Life of Canada, contacted a member of the staff of the Minister of Finance to inform that person that Mutual Life had been in possession of the Budget in Brief since April 25.
Precisely who in the office of the Minister of Finance was contacted? Who, in turn, did he contact and when? Were there any other calls made to the President of Mutual Life? By whom? Who in government contacted Mr. Masterman from Mutual Life? What instructions, advice or any-


If the Hon. Member has a series of questions, perhaps someone on the other side might want to deal with them.


Mr. Speaker, my information is that the original call came to the office of the Minister of Finance. In the absence of the Minister of Finance it was immediately turned over to the Deputy Minister of Finance. He proceeded with the verifications, the consultations with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, advising the police at that time, and then advising the Secretary of the Cabinet. That is my information. If my hon. friend has anything at variance with that, I will be happy to examine it.


Mr. Speaker, we learned that the Prime Minister was not aware of the leak for two hours. We also learned that for
28	days, the Government hid this second leak from the Canadian people. I would like to know at what time on what day Mr. Hartt, of the Prime Minister's Office, obtained the information and to whom he communicated it.


I can
tell you, Mr. Speaker, that I got my information between 3.30 and 4 p.m. from Mr. Tellier, as I told the House. It was between 3.30 and 4 o'clock.
Oral Questions


Mr. Hartt!


Pardon?


Mr. Hartt.


No, it was Mr. Jfellier who provided me with this information, Mr. Tellier having obtained it a few minutes before from Mr. Gorbet, the Deputy Minister of Finance. So I find the process quite normal and logical. Now if the Hon. Member is asking me whether I was informed by anyone besides Mr. Tellier, the answer is no! I was informed in the circumstances by this individual, just as I said.


My question is for the Prime Minister, Mr. Speaker. We have seen how quickly the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and the Solicitor General inform the House. There were allegations of other leaks on the night of April 26 and on April 27. What instructions were given to the office staff of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance concerning the procedures to follow if they found out about a second leak?


Mr. Speaker, it is completely ridiculous to suggest that the day before, we would warn individuals at the Privy Council or in my office about what to do if there were a second, third or fourth leak. When we found out that there had been a leak, right after, we asked for permission to come before the House with the Budget. The answer from the opposition parties was no. So, I ordered the Minister of Finance to make it public immediately and the RCMP to launch an investigation. This investigation began the day before and will continue until it ends and charges are laid.
So everything that was done the night before and the next day was consistent with an independent inquiry by the RCMP.


Mr. Speaker, Canadians and this House are sick and tired of hearing from this Cabinet: "There ain't nobody here but us chickens".


Oh, oh!

May 31, 1989
Oral Questions


My supplementary question to the Prime Ministeris a question that not only this House but the whole nation wants to know the answer to. Who was on the bridge of the Canada Valdez on April 27 between 1330 hours and 1500 hours?


Nobody.


Where was the captain, below deck? Who was in charge of the ship, the three bureaucrats?


Mr. Speaker, I have enough trouble some time. I hope he does not hold me responsible for the Valdez. The fact of the matter is that the information-


It was on automatic pilot.


Perhaps, then, let me take a second. The Budget was scheduled to be released. The night before we were advised, as was the country, of the fact that clearly a Budget document had been improperly or perhaps illegally released.
As a result of that I immediately convened my senior Ministers. We asked the permission of the opposition Leaders to come immediately before the House, to lay it on the floor of the House of Commons. That permission was refused. Because of that, I then instructed the Minister of Finance to make it public immediately via the media. I instructed as well that an inquiry by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, a complete police inquiry, be initiated immediately. That was done.
Any information subsequent thereto was conveyed by the Deputy Minister of Finance or by the Clerk of the Privy Council or by others to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, where it ought to have been left so that the Royal Canadian Mounted Police could conduct a thoroughly independent, impartial inquiry-


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General of Canada and concerns the national annual report on drugs published by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. The report shows that the fight against drugs has been successful, since drug seizures have more than doubled.
However, the report also mentions that the drug trade generates between $5 and $15 billion annually, and that the number of users has tripled during the last two years.
Could the Minister inform the House, and thus reassure Canadians, about measures that will be implemented to strengthen our collective resolve and deal with a problem that has become a veritable plague? Especially considering that in a recent report published by the Library of Parliament, costs related to drug abuse in Canada totalled $11.5 billion in 1984.


Mr. Speaker, the Hon. Member raises a very important point. The figures released this week are of considerable concern to our Government. With the help of police forces at both the municipal and provincial levels, we are trying to maintain a relentless campaign against drug trafficking. At the same time, Mr. Speaker, we have set up an anti-drug strategy costing over $200 million with the help of our colleagues at Customs and Excise, Health and Welfare and other departments, in order to provide better information for Canadians and keep our 10, 12 and 13 year-olds from falling into the drug trap laid by traffickers. I would urge all Canadians to help us in this campaign.


Mr. Speaker, I am told that when the Prime Minister is in this country, he likes to read all the papers every day. I have a message for the Prime Minister. In his absence-


The Hon. Member may have a message, but the Prime Minister is waiting for the question.


All the editorials across this country asked for the resignation of the Minister of Finance. The Prime Minister is facing a lack of confidence in his Minister of Finance.


Perhaps the Hon. Member would like to get to the point and put her question, please!


Will the Prime Minister ask for the resignation of his Minister of Finance, since the Minister is no longer able to perform his duties?
May 31, 1989


No!


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, that is what they said about Sinclair Stevens, too.


Mr. Speaker, my question is again for the Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister realize that by condoning the actions of his Minister of Finance he is demonstrating a fundamental lack of understanding of the role of a First Minister of this country?


Mr. Speaker, there is clearly a divergence of views between my hon. friend and myself with regard to the value of the Minister of Finance. If my hon. friend clings to the view that she has just expressed, why does she not bring forward a motion of non-confidence in the Minister and see what happens?


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Justice. On page 1012 of Hansard on April 27, 1989, the Minister of Justice in describing the events of the night before, that is the Global report on the Budget leak, said the following:
I think you would find that the particular reporter in a responsible
manner did not run the story until he had it corroborated.
I ask the Minister of Justice why a reporter who, in his own words, acted in a responsible manner, has been charged with a criminal offence?


I pointed out yesterday the very important distinction in terms of the administration of criminal law in Canada, that with respect to this particular prosecution which is now public knowledge, it is being conducted by the Province of Ontario and law officers under the direction of that province. Now the question has been put, the Minister of Justice can respond to it if he wishes.


Mr. Speaker, the matter is sub judice and I have no intention of commenting.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I would! like to ask the Minister of Justice this question: The Prime Minister of Canada has described what occurred, as long ago as a month, as a criminal act that could result in the incarceration of certain individuals. The Minister of Finance has described this whole matter as a wilful criminal act, as has the Deputy Prime Minister, and I believe, Mr. Speaker, the record will show so has the Minister of Justice.
I ask the Minister of Justice, given the principle on which he just refused to answer a question, whether he believes that any of the individuals involved can have a fair trial when the Prime Minister has already predetermined them to be criminals and likely to be incarcerated?


Mr. Speaker, I will not speak to the hypocrisy of that question.


Answer the question. Hypocrite.


Mr. Speaker, on April 27, 1989, in the House of Commons, in response to a question from my right hon. friend, I indicated that we had seen comments of a reporter by the name of Mr. French of Global Television who was the first person to receive the call-


He said a lot more than that, Prime Minister.


Perhaps I could conclude. Mr. French, who was a colleague at Global Television, was that same evening being interviewed on television. Mr. French was the first person who received the call from an individual who apparently took the documents. Here is what the line in the transcript said. The reporter, Mr. French, of Global Television said with regard to the individual, "I guess the criminal likes to return to the scene of a crime".
Mr. French of Global Television that night was referring to the individual who conveyed the information to Mr. Small. We believe that all these individuals who have been charged are entitled to the presumption of innocence-


You called them criminals.

Oral Questions


-and we should be saying and doing nothing in this House that would in any way diminish their full rights to a fair trial and the presumption of innocence.


The Hon. Member for Burnaby-Kings-way.


Aren't you going to recognize some of the Members in this institution? I have given you a note and-


The Hon. Member for Burnaby-Kings-way has the floor.


Oh, boy, that's great.


Mr. Speaker, he can have my second supplementary.


Who gets your second supplementary is up to the Chair. Would the Hon. Member put his question?


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Justice and also deals with the criminal charges against Doug Small. The Minister admitted today that his Associate Deputy Minister took part in the discussions on the serious charges against Mr. Small. Mr. Speaker, what position did his Deputy Minister take on these charges? Did he notify the RCMP that these unprecedented charges against a journalist would constitute an attack against freedom of the press in Canada? What position did his Associate Deputy Minister take on these charges?


Mr. Speaker, I have before me a transcript from the scrum yesterday in which I was asked whether or not there had been discussions with officials. I said there may have been the normal deliberations or consultations from official to official in the course of discussions.
My hon. friend will know that the RCMP was called in to do the investigation, that they completed their investigation, that they dealt with the Province of Ontario, which is the jurisdiction that has carriage of the action in the courts. The RCMP then came back and laid the
charges. I am advised that Justice officials between the two jurisdictions routinely discuss matters in which the federal Government may have an interest in terms of this particular thing, being the Budget. This involves questions of law, questions of evidence and information. It is all quite normal.


Mr. Speaker, that is precisely the point surely. I am asking the Minister of Justice, in view of the fact that the RCMP consulted with his Associate Deputy Minister of Justice, Doug Rutherford-confirmed that to me this morning-what position did Doug Rutherford take on the constitutionality of these unprecedented charges being laid against a journalist? In light of the seriousness-


Oh, oh!


In light of the seriousness-


The question was very straightforward. What did somebody say to somebody else. He can ask the question. Whether there is an answer is up to the Minister.


It is a serious question about the position taken by the Government. In light of the unprecedented nature of these charges against a journalist, will the Minister of Justice do the right thing and seek leave to intervene on behalf of the Government of Canada in these court proceedings to argue on behalf, not just of journalists, but on behalf of all Canadians against this massive attack on freedom of the press in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I can think of nothing which would be more of an interference in the course of justice than for me to answer that question.


Mr. Speaker, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Clerk of the Privy Council, the Secretary to the Cabinet, when they came into possession of information of a leak of a magnitude to Mutual Life, their prime course of action after years in the public service would have been to advise immediately the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister of Canada in time for them to meet the House at Question Period that same day.

Who gave him instructions not to inform the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance?


Mr. Speaker, they were never of course given any such instructions. A suggestion of this kind that involves the integrity of senior public servants is profoundly unworthy of a former Prime Minister of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, this is the reason we want those gentlemen to have their say before the Bar of the House of Commons.
Once the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance knew at 3.30 or four o'clock in the afternoon, as did the Deputy Prime Minister-


Or earlier.


-or earlier, why did the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance not tell the House of Commons during the course of his presentation to the House of the Budget? Why, and on whose instructions, was the country kept in the dark on this Mutual Life leak for the next 28 days?


Mr. Speaker, I have already responded to that question, and the Deputy Prime Minister has responded to it many times.
The evening before there had clearly been an unlawful dissemination of a very important federal document. An inquiry of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police was initiated. That inquiry began that very evening. At that point in time, any information thereafter was conveyed by Mr. Gorbet, Mr. Tellier and others to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, as it should be, with a view to allowing this independent group of investigators to conduct their investigations and to lay charges, if those charges were appropriate.
Anything else would have been at variance with our obligation to a complete hands-off policy with regard to the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. That is what we have done. That is what this House traditionally has asked Governments to do.
Privilege


Mr. Speaker, during the course of Question Period, and this is not the first time that it has happened, while the Member for Sudbury (Mrs. Marleau) was attempting to ask a legitimate question, the voice of the Member for Sudbury was mocked time and again by Conservative Members on the opposite side of the House.
It is not a low voice; it is not a tenor timbre. It is a woman's voice. I raise this issue because it is not the first time in the House of Commons that women on this side of the House who raise questions are mocked on a consistent basis because they have the voice of women.
I would like to ask the Speaker to review the "Blues" and the comments that were specifically addressed to the voice of the Member for Sudbury, and to advise all Members of the House that the timbre and tone of a person's voice is the product of their physiology, and that we as women in the House are sick and tired of having the Conservative Party mock us.


Hear, hear!


The Hon. Minister of Justice.


Mr. Speaker, during Question Period the Hon. Member for Humber-St. Barbe-Baie Verte (Mr. Tobin), and I know it was in the heat of Question Period, deliberately called the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) a hypocrite. I would simply call on my hon. friend to withdraw.


Apologize first on what happened. Apologize for your cronies.


The Hon. Member for Humber-St. Barbe-Baie Verte.


Mr. Speaker, the fact of the matter is, and I advise the Speaker and indeed the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lewis) to check the "Blues", the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) rose in his place and began his response to my question by talking about the hypocrisy of the Member opposite.

May 31, 1989
Privilege-Mr. Nowlan
You had better not hold your breath while you're waiting for me to withdraw my comment about the Prime Minister-


The Hon. Member for Hamilton East has raised a question. I will, of course, consult the "Blues" and if appropriate report back to the Hon. Member.
The Hon. Minister of Justice rises on a very different point of order. I will hear him further.


We accept the suggestion of the Hon. Member opposite. We will check the "Blues". I believe the statement that was made by the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney) was the hypocrisy of the question, not the individual placing the question.
Once again I would ask, if that is accepted, that my hon. friend withdraw his suggestion that the Prime Minister is a hypocrite.


The Hon. Member for Windsor West.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to draw your attention to the list of expressions that have been looked at in the context of whether or not they are parliamentary as found in Beauchesne's latest edition. You will find there are occasions when the word "hypocrite" has been found to be unparliamentary, but there are also occasions when it has been found to be parliamentary. I suggest you look at those rulings as well, Mr. Speaker, in considering the very timely comments of the Hon. Member for Humber-St. Barbe-Baie Verte (Mr. Tobin).


Perhaps the Hon. Member for Windsor West could help the Speaker. On which side am I to apply the ruling in Beauchesne's?
The Hon. Member for for Humber-St. Barbe-Baie Verte.


I would like to help, because of my great, profound respect for the Chair. It is greater than any other respect I have, other than for my mother, on this planet.
The Speaker knows I have great respect for the Chair. When the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney), together with myself review the "Blues", and comes to the House after
Question Period himself and is prepared to rise and explain what he meant when he used the word "hypocrisy", I will be quite prepared, upon reviewing the "Blues", to examine what I had to say across the floor of the House.
We cannot have an agent of the Prime Minister standing here and telling us what the Prime Minister meant or did not mean. Let the Prime Minister come himself and fight his own battles.


The Hon. Member and the Minister of Justice have addressed the Chair on a matter. I will examine what the record shows.


Mr. Speaker, the whole situation has been blown because Question Period is over. I have as great and fond respect for the Chair as does my hon. friend from Newfoundland, but I do not want to get into a maternity or paternity situation. Therefore, if you mix it up, you may call them some sons of something or other. Be that as it may, Members on the government side and in Opposition very rarely rise on a credible supplementary. We know that the questions about the leaks could go on for days. That is a political issue. But when the freedom of the press is involved, if questions had not come from the loyal Opposition or from my good friend, the Hon. Member for Burnaby-Kingsway (Mr. Robinson) on the problem of a reporter being charged, then I certainly would have risen in my place and, in a provocative question of privilege, got in my question.
My question would not have been as political as some of the others, but it would have been a question to the Solicitor General (Mr. Blais) about a most unusual situation, that is, a reporter being charged with stolen property. It deserves an unusual question. I was hoping to get this above board and in the public domain without all the problems of rumour and the perception of intrigue. You have stood, Mr. Speaker, so I have to sit down but-


I take it the Hon. Member for Annapolis Valley-Hants is rising on a question of privilege. I have listened to what the Hon. Member had to say. He has a complaint of sorts and there are probably other places in which he can express it. However, it is not a question of privilege.
May 31, 1989


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to table in both official languages a number of Order in Council appointments which were made by the Government.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the Government's response to several petitions.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.[


for leave to introduce Bill C-247, an Act to amend the Citizenship Act (oath of allegiance).


Shall the Hon. Member have leave to introduce the said Bill?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, in order to become a Canadian citizen under the existing Citizenship Act, an individual must pledge allegiance to Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II, her heirs and successors. This Bill to amend the Citizenship Act would require a pledge of allegiance to Canada and the Canadian Constitution.


Motion agreed to, Bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
Petitions
Mr. Speaker, it is my honour to present a petition pursuant to Standing Order 36 on behalf of a number of constituents from Kamloops, British Columbia, who are dismayed by the fact that the Government plans to cut out all or most of VIA Rail. They are asking the Government to reconsider the whole matter of these cut-backs. They point out that VIA Rail has provided good passenger service for a number of years and could do a first-class job if it were given the appropriate funding to do so.
They are asking that the Government reconsider its decision to reduce passenger rail service in Canada, to reconsider its decision to cut back on the moneys made available to VIA Rail.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present to the House of Commons a petition certified correct pursuant to Standing Order 36, which calls upon the Government to revise the extradition laws to allow for the extradition of criminals either immediately or after they have been fully dealt with by the Canadian penal system.
This petition represents the signatures of 2,145 concerned citizens from across Canada. These Canadians believe, as I do, that our present extradition laws make Canada a sanctuary for the most dangerous criminals.