Mr. Speaker, I rise on a question of privilege of which both my House Leader, the member of parliament for Windsor West, and I have given you notice.
I wish to deal with a contempt of the House, a matter which under our proceedings as described in Maingot's Parliamentary Privilege in Canada, Chapter 12, is properly brought before the House as a question of privilege.
On August 26 of this year the Department of Finance placed two full-page ads in each language in major newspapers across the country. The type face was so large that it jumped right out at you. These Tory ads in big type were paid for by the people of Canada and read: "On January 1, 1991, Canada's federal sales tax system will change. Please Save This Notice". It explains the changes and the reasons for them.
[Translation\
Mr. Speaker, the same text appeared in French in French newspapers across this country, reading as follows:
On January 1, 1991, Canada's Federal Sales Tax System Will
Change. Please Save This Notice.
It explains the changes and the reasons for them. Now on the second page, we see a full page indicating the
main changes that are being proposed, in detail, with the text of the amendments to the Act, and all this in the same ad, in the newspapers and in both languages.

Mr. Speaker, because you will need these before you in order to deliberate, I will at the conclusion of what I have to say to the House deposit these through you with the Clerk of the House, as I believe the rules require. It may be that at the conclusion of what I want to say the Clerk will want to read these into the record. That will be his and your judgment.
I intend to outline at the outset why I believe that these advertisements constitute a contempt of the House of Commons. I submit to Your Honour that the advertisement not only misrepresents the substance of the text but the procedure to which it is subject under parliamentary rules. It prejudices the proceedings that are now before a committee of the House, the Standing Committee on Finance, as well as prejudicing future proceedings and decisions of the House itself.
Your Honour, I will expand upon this point and if you find that a prima facie case of privilege has been established, I am prepared to move at the convenience of the House, under your order, the appropriate motion.
The wording "Please Save This Notice", followed by chapter and verse of the alleged tax changes, constitutes a basis for a question of privilege. Those words "Please Save This Notice" constitute a contempt of Parliament, constitute an intimidation of Parliament, because the only inference to be drawn from the words "Please Save This Notice" is that it does not matter what members of parliament do in dealing with these taxes. It does not matter what the committee on finance does with respect to these taxes.


Hear, hear!

September 25, 1989
Privilege


It does not matter what the people of Canada are saying with respect to these taxes.


Hear, hear!


It does not matter whether the hon. member for Mississauga South decides in his good judgment that it does not work. It is not worth the public money, the public purse, he says, to take this committee to Newfoundland. He has since recanted, but it does not matter what the people of Newfoundland say, the people of Nova Scotia, Ontario, British Columbia, and Quebec. "Please Save This Notice. You are wasting your time. Do not bother to appear before this committee", that is what the government is actually saying.


Hear, hear!


"Please Save This Notice". According to these ads these are the proposed changes which are going to come into effect. That is it. That is contempt of Parliament by those who write these ads. That is contempt of Parliament by those who authorize these ads. That is contempt of Parliament because only this House can authorize tax changes, only the House of Commons.


Hear, hear!


This is the fundamental basis of the question of privilege before you. "Please Save This Notice". The ad states that specific measures will come into effect on a specific date-t does not matter what parliament does-when in fact no such tax legislation has been passed by the House of Commons. Nobody except perhaps the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance wants to see any such legislation introduced into the House of Commons. Certainly not the Tory back-benchers who have had something to say about it this week.
The House of Commons committee on finance is going across the country seeking the advice of taxpayers on a technical paper to decide whether or not to recommend to the Minister of Finance whether or not to introduce legislation, which this ad says is already written in stone, because "Please Save This Notice"; nothing is going to change.
These ads are a flagrant circumvention of a fundamental parliamentary principle that it is the House of Commons, the representatives of the people from every province and territory in this country; that it is we as
mandated by the people of Canada; that it is we the fiduciary of the people and only we on behalf of the people of Canada, who will have full control over what the taxes in this country are going to be.


Hear, hear!


That right rests with parliament. It does not rest with a few slogan writers in a Tory advertising agency.

These advertisements violate our parliamentary tradition in two more ways. They prejudice the proceedings that are now before the Standing Committee on Finance as well as prejudicing future proceedings of the House itself.
Mr. Speaker, these ads constitute a breach of the rights and privileges of all Members and a contempt of Parliament.
A government that wastes millions and millions of dollars on newspaper ads not even a canary would want to see on the floor of its cage, and keeps saying that it is trying to cut spending in order to reduce the deficit, that Government is both hypocritical and utterly ridiculous.
Mr. Speaker, what we have here is not just a flagrant breach of parliamentary privilege but a flagrant case of government stupidity.
The harebrained scheme proposed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance is a contradiction of every word they ever said about tax reform, both in the House of Commons and across the country.
What we have here, Mr. Speaker, is not just an obvious case of a breach of the privileges of this House, it is a flagrant case of breach of good faith.
The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are backing a ridiculous proposal which is not only not tax neutral, as they promised, but is in fact the most flagrant tax grab in this country's history. It does not reflect the simplicity promised by this Government and would in fact create an administrative nightmare we would not wish on our worst enemies. It does not provide for provincial participation, as promised, and will make Canada the only nation in the world saddled with two entirely different sales tax systems: a federal and a provincial system.
September 25, 1989

Mr. Speaker, what we have here is not just a flagrant violation of parliamentary privilege, it is also an obvious case of political fraud perpetrated by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance.
Mr. Speaker, I know that in the light of these facts, you would kick these scoundrels out the door, if you could, but I also realize you have very little leeway since you can only apply the Standing Orders as they concern questions of privilege.

Mr. Speaker, I want to read to you an important citation from page 543 of Bourinot's second edition, a quotation which will be of importance to you in your decision and of no interest to any Conservative cabinet minister because it was not made up by some Tory slogan writer at some Tory advertising agency. It represents the historic traditions of this House.
The principal purpose of the House of Commons, in fact, is the consideration and criticism of the Estimates and the taxes required to meet the public expenditures and the committees in question are the parliamentary machinery by means of which the House chiefly exercises its political and constitutional functions.
That is the citation from Bourinot.
When the House of Commons committee is currently conducting hearings on a technical paper on the proposed sales tax, how can it expect to get a complete range of opinions from Canadians when millions of our fellow citizens read these two-page newspaper ads which state blatantly that certain tax changes are going to come into effect? Many Canadians who might otherwise be prone to submit a brief to the committee have taken the conclusion and taken the message from this ad of why bother. We have read the ads that say no matter what we say the Department of Finance has said changes are coming into effect, no matter what any individual Canadian may think. I would go on to cite for you, Mr. Speaker, Maingot's Parliamentary Privilege in Canada, a citation at page 192 which reads as follows:
While privilege may be codified, contempt may not, because new forms of obstruction are constantly being devised and parliament must be able to invoke its penal jurisdiction to protect itself against these new forms.
Mr. Speaker, the none too hidden message of the ads is we are doing what we like whether you like it or not, whether your members of parliament like it or not,
Privilege
whether the House of Commons likes it or not, or the members specifically on the committee of finance like it or not. "Please Save This Notice", no changes allowed. I know that is what the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance really believe.
I point out to you, Mr. Speaker, the definition of contempt contained in the twentieth edition of Erskine May's Parliamentary Practice, Chapter 10, page 143:
It may be stated generally that any act or omission which obstructs or impedes either House of Parliament in the performance of its functions, or which obstructs or impedes any Member or officer of such House in the discharge of his duty, or which has a tendency, directly or indirectly, to produce such results may be treated as a contempt even though there is no precedent for the offence.
The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and their Conservative propaganda gurus who come up with new forms of obstruction obviously believed when they inserted this ad that they did not need to wait for any final parliamentary approval. They did not even need to wait for approval on second reading. They did not even need to wait for the parliamentary committee to report. They did not even need to wait for the act to receive first reading in the House of Commons as a bill. They ran the ads. They ran the ads not in order to help Parliament but to obstruct, impede, and threaten Parliament.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I have read some of the citations from the authorities and I now want to give some references from leading members of parliament over the years within our lifetime. There are hundreds of quotations I could cite on the basis of the tradition that the House of Commons and only the House of Commons can pass upon a tax measure or an expenditure measure.
I will cite a few of these important historical references because I know, Mr. Speaker, that you share my concern and my understanding that the rules which we apply today rest upon our traditions and our history even though the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have no belief in history. Their motto is: "Why worry about history or traditions of the House of Commons when a good advertising copywriter can write one for you?"
I quote the late John George Diefenbaker, cited in Hansard on page 189 on December 11, 1947. It was a debate about tax changes announced over the radio by

September 25, 1989
Privilege
then Finance Minister Doug Abbott. Here is what Mr. Diefenbaker had to say in this House:
When a government utilizes powers-in a way never contemplated by Parliament, we have a right to ask that Parliament and the country be given an explanation.
Mr. Diefenbaker went on to ask whether there is, and I cite him again:
-in any country-an occasion where taxation has been imposed by
a minister by Order in Council.
Mr. Speaker, Mr. Diefenbaker would be stunned.
This government has not only the arrogance to contemplate taxation by Order in Council, it contemplates taxation by newspaper ads. Mr. Diefenbaker would roll over in his grave if he saw his successors on that side of the House consenting to this kind of action.
Later on March 9, 1948, on page 2028 of Hansard, Mr. Diefenbaker had this to say:
The statutes of the realm provide in most emphatic language that no tax should be levied on a subject without the consent of Parliament.
In no way, shape or form has parliament given its consent. Mr. Diefenbaker, as partisan as he was and as partisan as he could be in this House, would be appalled that our current Prime Minister and Minister of Finance run ads purporting to say and suggest that parliament has given its approval.

Mr. Speaker, I now draw your attention to Hansard for April 20, 1961, where we see that a pamphlet published by the Department of Agriculture-and I do mean a pamphlet and not a massive advertising campaign for the reform of our tax system-led Walter Pitman, who was then the New Democratic Member for Peterborough, to raise a question of privilege. In his statement, Mr. Pitman asked, and I quote page 3825 for April 20, 1961: "How can the people of Canada be told how A.R.D.A. will operate when this bill has not received second reading? Is there a suggestion that second reading has no effect? Is it the contention that a debate in this house amounts to nothing more than the rubber-stamping of a measure?"
I draw the attention of this House to the fact that this question of privilege concerned only an agriculture bill
which had not yet been presented to the House for second reading but which had already been tabled for first reading. But the question that concerns us today has not even been presented to Parliament for first reading. The question that concerns us here is the publication of advertisements in newspapers for a bill that has not even been drafted yet.
Mr. Pitman's position was supported by the late Lester B. Pearson, who said that the publication of the pamphlet indeed constituted an example of contempt for the House of Commons. Mr. Pearson said: "The question dealt with the circulation of a pamphlet dealing with an act of parliament before that act was passed. Therefore, undoubtedly, that action on the part of the minister is treating Parliament with contempt."

Mr. Speaker, your predecessor at that time was the Right Hon. Roland Michener. He did not have to rule on the issue because no formal motion was submitted, but he nonetheless took the trouble to address the House on this issue of contempt. Mr. Speaker Michener stated at page 3826 of Hansard on April 20, 1961 the following:
There is a point that no one should assert that Parliament has acted before it has done so, particularly a Minister. If it is borne out by this document, I think the Hon. Members would have a point to deal with by Motion.
In other words he conceded the prima facie nature of the case. The ads run on August 26 of this year by the Department of Finance which said "On January 1, 1991, Canada's federal sales tax system will change. Please save this notice", meet the criteria set down by Speaker Michener because they implicitly assert that Parliament has acted before it has done so.
I fear that this intellectual discourse goes beyond the contemplative powers of Conservative members opposite. What do these modem masters of our destiny care what John Diefenbaker thinks or Roland Michener thinks?
Perhaps I can quote some of their most recent contemporaries. The instant copywriters of the Conservative party with their instant preachers, the ministers of the current government, might be interested in what some of their recent contemporaries had to say.
September 25, 1989

I want to quote from the now Lieutenant-Governor of Newfoundland and Labrador, representing the Crown and a province that the member for Mississauga South did not want to waste public money out of the public purse to visit so that the people of Newfoundland and Labrador could give their submissions before that committee.
In any event he is the Hon. James McGrath, known to yourself Mr. Speaker and me, formerly the hon. member for St. John's East, and the person responsible for some of our most recent procedural reforms. During the debate on the propriety of constitutional ads placed by the government in 1980, and by the way after debate had taken place in the House of Commons, Mr. McGrath stated his views on such government advertising on page 3528 of Hansard dated October 9, 1980:
The purpose of such advertising can only be to inhibit the Opposition in its attempt to debate government policy or the assumptions on which it is based.
Of course the current situation is far worse than anything Mr. McGrath could have been contemplating, because we are not yet even debating a bill in the House of Commons but the government is calling it a fait accompli. The now Lieutenant-Governor must have seen what was coming when he referred to, and I quote him again, on page 3528:
- the modem equivalent of the corruption and intimidation which contaminated the House of Commons at an earlier stage of its development.
Mr. McGrath has been gone from the House for a few years. Perhaps I should cite a more recent departure, a former Conservative Minister of Justice, the Hon. Ray Hnatyshyn, who has been gone for only 10 months. He is still actively practising law in this city. I would like to quote Mr. Hnatyshyn. He said at page 3529 of Hansard, October 9, 1980, during the same debate, and I quote him:
A multi-million dollar advertising campaign-is contrary to every fundamental principle upon which Parliament has been developed and fought for over the years.
I can only say to him, through you Mr. Speaker: "Well said, Ray".


Hear, hear!


We are going to miss him.
Privilege


Now out of respect for the Prime Minister, although heaven knows why, I will restrain from quoting the former member for Yukon, the Hon. Erik Nielsen.


Go ahead.


I would be willing if Your Honour and the Clerk wish that I deposit those citations with you, but I do not want to trespass on the goodwill of the House.


The right hon. gentleman has referred to a recent book and the Chair of course would be interested in knowing which quotes.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, Erik Nielsen has enough ammunition that he could run a loose-leaf service. I am not citing his book, which I do not expect you to read in the course of your duties. I am just saying that I do have citations from Hansard attributed to the former hon. member for Yukon, but I will not, as I say, trespass on the goodwill of the House here.
Let us just talk about some contemporary members of the House, some ministers who have been in the House for some time. Let us hear what they had to say during the same debate about those constitutional ads. The current Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources must have had his own Prime Minister and his own colleague, the Minister of Finance, in mind when he said on the same day, October 9, 1980, at page 3531 of Hansard:
What the government is attempting to do is-make the point-to
everyone outside the House that no matter what argument is raised,
legitimately or otherwise, that argument is not valid and that the
plan of action has been completed.
Another minister who believes in taking the high road must have been in High River the day the cabinet authorized these ads, for the Right Hon. Secretary of State for External Affairs had this to say in the same debate, at page 3534:
I think that an attempt to spend public money, to manipulate public opinion on public questions that have not yet been decided is an improper practice that offends the rights of the House of Commons.
In the same debate, the Secretary of State, at page 3532 of Hansard, had this to say:
What the Government is trying to do is suggest that its advertisements reflect a decision that has been taken. That is false;

Privilege
that decision has not been taken. Those advertisements cannot be justified as being in any way a reflection of a decision taken here.
In 1980, the now Secretary of State for External Affairs flew into a rage in the House of Commons over one single ad proposing constitutional change which had been debated in the House of Commons, which he and his Party later voted for and which became the Constitution Act, 1982. He was furious at that one single ad which portrayed Canada geese floating across a Canadian sky. To him, that was a most dangerous type of ad.
I want to say through you, Mr. Speaker, to the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister, that what was sauce for the goose in 1980 is sauce for the gander in 1989.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I want to go to the ultimate authority here. I want to quote the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans.


Oh, oh!


For once in his political career, he was not throwing around red herrings.
I challenge him to appear in his full academic regalia and repeat the words he spoke in the House of Commons on October 9, cited at page 3537 of Hansard. I am sure he has memorized what he said. He memorizes most of what he says.
He said:
My privilege, my reputation and my honour as a member of this House have been degraded because members of the government have been proclaiming around the country, in my name, and in the name of all members of this Parliament, slogans and view points that I believe not to be merely misleading but in many respects to be downright dishonest.
There are days I wish cabinet ministers would get up under the rules in Question Period and put a question or two, because then the Minister of National Health and Welfare could repeat his famous question of October 22, 1980, and pose it to the Minister of Finance. This is what the Member for Wellington-Dufferin-Simcoe, now the Minister of National Health and Welfare said then.
May I ask the Minister how he can justify this double standard of exempting the Government from provisions regarding false and misleading advertising, where false and misleading advertising by the private sector would result in criminal charges being laid by the Government?
If private citizens can be prosecuted for misleading advertising why not the government of Canada?


Hear, hear!


I know that the Minister of National Health and Welfare was in on the decision to place these ads because we all know that he has to be part of every important decision. The only thing to change faster than the views of the Minister of National Health and Welfare was the decision to nuke his submarine plan. The only reason I have to feel sorry for the Minister of National Health and Welfare is that I understand he recently went to see the movie Batman and found that the role of Robin the Boy Wonder had been scrapped from the latest version of it.
What happened to all those criticisms, to all those objections that members of Parliament, now sitting on the government side of the House, now cabinet ministers of the Crown, must have raised to this advertising campaign about the goods and services tax proposal? Did they raise the same objections in Cabinet that they raised in the House, or were those objections lost in the panelling of the cabinet room? Did they simply fall on the deaf ears of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, a Prime Minister, after all, who doesn't really care too much about the fundamental principles of parliamentary practice and prefers a presidential stance.
Perhaps the Prime Minister himself dreamed up that phrase: "Please save this notice". The only reason people will save this notice is because they will want it as a reminder to vote against the Conservative government in the next election.


Hear, hear!
I move from quoting certain honourable hypocrites to the serious ruling of a serious person. The then Speaker and now Her Excellency the Governor General, Madam Speaker Sauve, outlined to the House how advertisements such as the one in question may be seen as a contempt of the House. She said that the advertisements would constitute contempt of the House if there was, and now I quote her, "some evidence that they represent a publication of false, perverted, partial or injurious
September 25, 1989

reports of the proceedings of the House of Commons". That is found at page 3781 of Hansard of October 17, 1980.
I submit to Your Honour that the present case clearly meets the criteria established by Madam Sauve and clearly constitutes a contempt of this House. What could be more false, perverted, partial or injurious than to place advertisements in daily newspapers across the country implying and saying directly that certain tax changes would come into effect when such tax changes had never been considered in any proceedings of the House of Commons?
The advertisements are not partially false, they are totally fiction. If publication of any partial proceeding of the House constitutes contempt, then fabrication of tax changes which can only be made by proceedings of this House must also constitute contempt of this House of Commons.

Mr. Speaker, Madam Sauve, when she was Speaker, continued as follows:
-when a person or a government attempts to interfere with our deliberations through spending public money, or otherwise, directly or indirectly, or acts in contempt of the House, such action would constitute a prima facie case.
That was on October 17, 1980, as reported on page 3781 of Hansard.
The advertisements in question today bear the following headline, I remind you:
On January 1, 1991, Canada's Federal Sales T&x System Will Change. Please Save This Notice.
These advertisements contain several paragraphs on the other side which precisely and concisely describe and explain the tax changes which are supposed to take place. These advertisements, Mr. Speaker, are a breach of the privileges of the House, not only because they present an erroneous, distorted view of our deliberations, but also because they state that the tax system will be changed and that it will be changed in a very specific way.
Under the Finance Department's imprimatur, which any right-thinking Canadian would take to be true, we find sentence after sentence containing flagrant untruths.
Privilege
How can one publish such notices announcing that certain changes will be made when no bill to that effect has yet been presented to the House of Commons?

Madam Speaker Sauve said this in another related ruling found at page 4213 of October 29, 1980:
In the context of contempt, it seems to me that to amount to contempt, representations or statements about our proceedings or of the participation of Members should not only be erroneous or incorrect, but, rather, should be purposely untrue, improper and import a ring of deceit.
It is with great regret that I must state that the advertisements placed by the Department of Finance under the authority of the Minister of Finance do indeed import a ring of deceit. The advertisements were knowingly placed by the very people who were best placed to know that they were untrue, who knew they were misleading, who knew they smacked of nothing but deceit and who knew that there was nothing that Parliament had done in any way to validate the statements in the advertisements.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, the only possible serious purpose of the advertisements was to attempt to influence the Canadian public not to bother attending committee hearings, not to bother giving their views to members of Parliament, not to bother with the reports of the Finance Committee of the House of Commons, but to believe what was in those advertisements was the truth, even though it was not the truth.
It was an attempt to influence the Canadian people into believing that the ads represented an alleged fact, a parliamentary fact, even though they did not, and that the ads constituted the will of Parliament and expressed in the text a decision of the will of Parliament even though there had been no decision, no bill, no deliberations, no debate and probably not even a drafted text. That is only possible argument to be offered for placing those ads.
This is not only a breach of members' privileges, it is a contempt of Parliament. It is a fundamentally dishonest move to deceive the public by people who should know better.

Privilege
The House of Commons has not considered any bill on the goods and services tax. The Department of Finance which placed these ads is responsible for drafting any such bill. The Minister of Finance, who is responsible for introducing the bill, is the same minister who is responsible for allowing the ads to be placed, knowing that no legislation has been drafted, knowing that no legislation has been presented, knowing that the committee of finance under the chairmanship of the member for Mississauga South is seeking the opinions of Canadians. All of that is a flagrant contempt of the House of Commons.


Hear, hear!


As manipulative as it would have been for the Minister of Finance to place ads stating what he would recommend to Parliament, that is not what he did. He went one step further. He allowed ads to be placed which indicated in specific terms that his recommendations had already become law. As misleading as it would have been for the minister to place ads stating that the tax system would change in some way or other, that is not what he did. He placed ads saying that the tax system would change in a specific manner, and in the ad he lists proposed changes in specific terms, pre-empting the work of the House of Commons, pre-empting the role of members of Parliament.
Now, the minister cannot claim that the ads merely provide information to the Canadian public about his proposals because, according to the ads, it is not a proposal, this is law. "On January 1, 1991, Canada's federal sales tax system will change," and he lists the specific changes. And, "Please, save this notice," because nothing is going to change, nothing that members of Parliament can say, nothing that Canadians can say, nothing is going to change, so please, save this notice.
The minister cannot claim that he is merely giving notice to the Canadian people of future tax changes. The Standing Committee on Finance, acting on Standing Order 108 (2) of this House is conducting hearings to advise the minister whether he should draft legislation on any goods and services tax. Until such time as he hears from the committee, the Minister of Finance is not in a position to give any detailed notice unless he is
willing to admit contempt for the veiy House of Commons committee set up to advise him.
In our submission to you, Mr. Speaker, misrepresentations contained in the ads prejudice in a fundamental way the proceedings of this House of Commons. We have offered to you detailed precedents on the question of privilege. My colleagues will offer parliamentary analysis of the specifics contained in these newspaper advertisements. I put before you and submit to you, Your Honour, that this is a significant question of privilege covering the issue of contempt, under which it has always been placed. If you find a prima facie case, I am prepared to move the appropriate motion.
Now, you do not need a precedent on the issue of contempt, but I attempted to outline for you earlier parallel proceedings which support our claim. Again, I am prepared to submit the appropriate motion, if you should so find.
Thank you for your indulgence and for the indulgence of the House. Nothing is more fundamental than for members to stand on their feet to defend the issue of privilege of the House, because only when we do it on behalf of the Canadian people can governments be held to account. This type of presidential largesse, this type of contemptuous treatment of the people's representatives on the fundamental issue of Parliament, the issue of taxation, the foundation of Parliament, cannot be tolerated by you, Sir, or by any of us who sit in this Chamber.


Hear, hear!


policy that has not yet been approved by the Parliament of Canada. That is the point that is at stake here.
I want to say in making this point that I listened with interest to the Leader of the Opposition and support almost everything he had to say, but I also note that he said at one point that what was sauce for the goose was sauce for the gander. He was quoting the Conservatives at length in their criticism of such action in the past. What he did not point out, of course, is that the Conservatives, when they were critcizing this action, were criticizing the Liberal government that was performing in precisely the same manner.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, the reality is that there has been an evolution toward this kind of advocacy advertising on the part of governments that was opposed by the New Democratic Party when it was done in 1980 by a federal Liberal government following a referendum in the province of Quebec, a referendum, the federal side of which had been supported by the then Leader of the Opposition, the Hon. Member for Yellowhead, and the government and the New Democratic Party. We believed that advertising that advocated a certain policy before it was approved by the Parliament of Canada, even if it was a policy we advocated, should not be supported by the spending of public funds. We said it in 1980; we repeat it now. I just wish the Liberals were a little more consistent.


I cannot take it.


No, the Liberals cannot take it. They have trouble with the truth. The Liberals have a lot of problems with that.


What would you know about that?


Mr. Speaker, the reality is that not only has the government proceeded over the summer in utter contempt of parliament by saying that changes are going to come into effect in 1991, but it has in the same ad listed a whole number of alleged elements of this change, the factual claims of which are totally at variance with the documents that were produced during the summer pertinent to the 9 per cent increase.
I want to deal both with the matter of parliamentary legitimacy which is being violated by the Government,
Privilege
and, in that context, with the misleading nature of the ads themselves in terms of what the government claims it is doing with this 9 per cent tax. It is full of outright misstatements, to use parliamentary language, that outside the House might be called by ordinary people, lies. Let me say it is misleading in terms of what is in there.
The ad says that this change that will go into effect at the beginning of 1991 is going to, among other things, help low-income Canadians. The reality is that some 300,000 families at or below the poverty level are going to be paying more taxes, not lower taxes, as a result of this 9 per cent change. So the government is misleading the people on that claim itself.


Be honest!


I am, and the minister should be honest. He should go through these ads and listen to the interest groups who have appeared before the parliamentary committee, not supporters of the opposition parties, stating their views. He would then find out the truth about what is involved.
Not only is it inappropriate for the government to be spending money in advance of Parliament taking a stand on a policy matter, whether it is a tax matter or any other, but it is also the case in the given instance that the government, having done this, subsequently agreed with changes proposed by opposition parties to have hearings outside of Ottawa and even to have these hearings televised so the people of Canada can have their views known. If all these changes that the government asserts in its advertising are going to take place with the considerable detail outlined in the advertisements put in the papers, what, we ask, is the relevance of the hearings.
Does it make sense to go to the people of Canada? According to a decision reached, the committee is going to eight provinces as well as to Whitehorse. There surely is a contempt of Parliament by proceeding with these ads before Parliament has agreed. Beyond that, there is a contempt of the people of Canada if they say they are going to have hearings across the country and not pay the slightest attention to what the people of Canada have to say.

Privilege

that almost all groups that have attended the hearings here in Ottawa have clearly indicated that they are against this sales tax. Groups, corporations, poor people's groups, women's groups, all groups here in Canada, are against this sales tax.

The other day, the Prime Minister was seen on television saying that he speaks for the people of Canada, while these people only speak for interest groups. When you have interest groups from Newfoundland to British Columbia representing women, the poor, large and small business and virtually all of Canada, we in this party say that it is the interest groups in this instance who speak for the people of Canada and not the Prime Minister, and he ought to listen.
It seems to us that in terms of parliamentary tradition, whether it was your predecessor or Mr. Roland Michen-er when he was Speaker of the House who spoke on this, the principle is very clear. The government ought not to be using the funds of the people of Canada for a political, partisan position of the government of the day in advance of a parliamentary agreement. This process started with the previous Liberal government, and to be fair, it was not used widely then, but it was started then. It was the beginning of the view that the government of the day can use the people's own money to advocate essentially political policies before they are approved.
If it was started by the Liberals in the 1980s, the practice has been extended and multiplied almost ad infinitum by the Conservatives on almost every major issue that has come up since the Conservatives were elected in 1984. They have used the people's money to do through public expenditure what they ought to have been doing as politicians, which is to persuade the people of Canada directly themselves. This process has got to stop.


Hear, hear!


In rising in support of this question of privilege, I repeat that the point is of fundamental importance, but it has been something that other governments have pursued. If we are to put an end to it, Your Honour, there can be no better time than when there is a
tax proposal that is unfair, inequitable and counter-productive in terms of economic growth. In almost every aspect, the tax proposal is not desirable.
What is at issue is the right of Parliament to decide and, after a decision has been reached, then it is permitted for a government to use its offices to declare in an informative way what a factual situation is in terms of the law of Canada.
Your Honour, you have the right, and some of us believe the obligation, to rule against the government on this particular occasion. In so doing, I say not only would you be taking a major step in the process of stopping an inequitable tax to be brought in by this government, but more fundamentally, in reaching such a decision, you will be reasserting the basic principle of parliamentary democracy.


Hear, hear!


Before hearing from the Hon. Minister of Justice, I think it is necessary for the Chair to say for the record that the debate which is taking place is on the question of whether or not the publication of this ad and its contents constitutes a contempt of the House. It is not a debate on the relative merits, whatever they may be or not be, with respect to a proposed piece of legislation. I think that has to be carefully kept in mind and that is what I have to keep in mind in making the decision which is sought in this chamber.


Mr. Speaker, I start out by welcoming the comment you just made and indicating that I will deal with the argument put forward. However, I would appreciate the same latitude that was accorded to my colleagues who spoke earlier. I do that because I appreciate that they feel it is a serious matter.
I want to preface my remarks by welcoming the House back. I know that members have had an active summer and are anxious to get back to the business of government. We, as you know, Mr. Speaker, wanted to start off today with debate on the bill to establish the Ministry of Forestry. We informed the opposition of this two weeks ago and our speakers are ready. I am not sure whether this is a delaying tactic because their speakers are not ready, but ours are ready, Mr. Speaker.


Oh, oh!
September 25, 1989


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. The minister tells us he is ready to debate the bill.


So what!


So what! We have before us a question of privilege, a question of contempt of the House. I think it has precedence over the minister's disposition to debate a bill. We are ready, too, to debate any bill he brings forward.


Hear, hear!


It is always nice to know when you have struck a nerve, Mr. Speaker. I cannot help but notice that that brought my friend to his feet. I regret the delay just as he does and his members who want to debate this very important bill on the ministry of forestry act. I appreciate that as Whip he has brought his members back and they are now cooling their heels.
I cannot help but in opening my remarks refer to the fact that my hon. colleague, the Right Hon. Leader of the Opposition, made liberal reference to Mr. Diefen-baker. There is one other quote that he should remember. Mr. Diefenbaker said: "When you are hunting bear you shouldn't be distracted by the rabbit tracks". I think what we are seeing here today is two parties distracted by the rabbit tracks, because the essence of the GST debate should be handled elsewhere.
I think it is fair to say that the replacement of the present federal sales tax with the goods and services tax is a fundamental change in the way sales taxes are applied in Canada. We appreciate that. We felt it was our job and our responsibility as a government to see that all individual Canadians, whether they are employers or employees, understand the changes that we are proposing.
When one places ads one always wants to know that they are being read. I appreciate the publicity that my hon. colleagues have given this issue by referring to the ads that were placed across Canada. We are pleased that they have had that impact on the Canadian people and on my colleagues in opposition.
Reading the text of the ads has never been a great strength of my colleagues opposite. So if I may, Mr. Speaker, I would just like to point out one thing. I do not want to read the entire ad. I could go on to say that it is a major program to reduce the deficit. I could say that it will strengthen our international competitiveness, but
Privilege
what I would like to focus on are the words "proposed changes".


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I appreciate the comments of my hon. friend and I listened with interest. I just want to bring to his attention that it says in the headlines that the federal sales tax system "will" change. There is no proposed. There is no maybe. There is no likely. It is "will". It is very clear.


My hon. friend only reads the left side of any newspaper. This is on the right side.


Hear, hear!


If the Minister would read the article or text we are talking about, I may remind him that Citation 83 of Beauchesne's, Fifth Edition, reads as follows:
Should a question of privilege be based on published material, the
article in question must be submitted and read at the Table.
It makes no difference to us whether the Minister wants to read the right side or the left side of the ad. If he doesn't want to read it, he should ask the clerk to do it for him. We read the ad, and we say it is unparliamentary and undemocratic.


While my hon. friend was out rounding up his critics on the forestry act, his leader made liberal reference to the advertisement in question. I was just picking a point out that perhaps my hon. friend had missed.
I think that what we have here is an effort by the government to inform Canadians about proposed changes. It has resulted in a great number of calls from interested Canadians, many of whom I understand are supportive of the act and the suggestion. We have had a flood of requests for overview documents and technical papers, and I know that right now the department is anticipating another flood of requests for information as a result of the fact that this has been raised by the Hon. Leader of the Opposition.
There is a bit of a contradiction here. My hon. friend says on the one hand: "You should not distribute material, you should not advertise it is available for distribution", and at the same time members of the committee last week were calling for further debate and further hearings. You cannot have it both ways. He either wants full and open hearings with full and open

September 25, 1989
Privilege
advertisements as to proposed changes or he does not. What we have to do is decide that.
In the interest of exposing this issue to the House and enabling you, Sir, to make your decision, I would point out that on March 16, 1988 there was a report of the finance committee which recommended unanimously that if the government were to proceed with a value added tax it should publicize the details of that tax and the relevant social policy transfers.
It is hard to say who was the finance critic for the Liberal Party at that time, just as it is today. In any event, that committee when it reported said to publicize the details, so we are taking that unanimous recommendation and we are publicizing the details. I think that is in the interest of what we are trying to do.
Great comment has been made here today that the House has never made any decision on whether or not to go ahead with the goods and services tax. I realize that the opposition was distracted last spring. Last spring we brought in a budget and the opposition was distracted for about six weeks or eight weeks. How long was it? They completely missed the fact that in that budget there was a goods and services tax. I am sorry that they missed that. The quotes in there are: "These measures will be replaced by the new sales tax to be implemented on January 1, 1991".
I would also refer my hon. friend to the fact that on May 15 of this year the House approved in general, and I quote, "the budgetary policy of the government". The goods and services tax is included in the budgetary policy of the government and therefore has been approved by the House.
I know that my friends will not be persuaded by that political argument, so let me move quickly to the procedural argument. This is a political argument and I do not have any difficulty with that. We will make the political argument. We are making it in committee, we are making it in the House, and we are making it in the country. Let us look at what the well-known experts say about parliamentary privilege, and I shall read from Erskine May, page 143, where it states:
It may be stated generally that any act or omission which obstructs or impedes either House of Parliament in the performance of its functions, or which obstructs or impedes any Member or officer of such House in the discharge of his duty, or which has a tendency, directly or indirectly, to produce such results may be treated as contempt even though there is no precedent of the offence.
The committee is sitting. The debate is going on. Nobody is impeded. Nobody yet in this debate has suggested to you, Mr. Speaker, they are impeded from doing what they should do as members of parliament.
The same point is made also in Abraham and Hawtrey on page 80. It has to impede the member and the member's abilities.
Let us talk about advertisements. We are fortunate in this to be able to produce some comments from a well-known Canadian presently listed as a three to two favourite, the Hon. Jean Chretien. I know that members of the House who are at five to one, ten to one, and twenty-five to one, the hon. members for Hamilton East and Gloucester, will be interested in these comments. This is not post time. Post time is on a weekend in June, but that is where they are.
Let us deal with what Mr. Chretien said. He said that it was the goal that the House of Commons was pursuing at that time in order to have constitutional reform come quickly and effectively to Canada. He said: "I do not think that the privileges of the members have been affected". He is referring, of course, to an advertising campaign put on at the time by the government of the day to promote constitutional reform just as we are promoting tax reform. That was defended vigorously- and I notice he stepped out for a minute-by the present member for Welland-St. Catharines-Thorold. He said, and these are great words: "There is a need to achieve understanding of Canada's evolution, the integrity of the federal system of the Government." This is on page 16839 for my colleagues who will want to read those citations in full. I have other citations, but I want to close.
My colleagues made great reference to the arguments that we made in opposition. I want to close with the ruling of the Speaker of the day. Let us get to the issue of advertising in advance of a parliamentary decision was
September 25, 1989

decided. What is the precedent that the House is looking to? What is the precedent, Sir, that you will look to in making your decision?
Let us look at the precedent at page 3780 on October 17, 1980 of Hansard. Madam Speaker said:
On Thursday last the hon. member for St. John's East (Mr. McGrath) raised a question of privilege, the gist of which is set out in his proposed motion where he asked:
That the matter of the financing of public advertising campaigns at taxpayers expense on behalf of a partisan policy or opinion, before such policy or opinion has been approved by the Hou