Mr. Speaker, I am troubled by the proposal of the Auditor General to set up an anonymous tattle-tale hotline to encourage civil servants to tell tales about other civil servants to the Auditor General. I am particularly concerned that the Auditor General appears to be dismissing out of hand the view of Canada's privacy commissioner that the proposed hotline is dangerous and perhaps even illegal.
I believe that public servants have a right to know then-accusers and I would urge the government not to approve funds which would sanctify, subsidize and institutionalize anonymous informants, certainly not before Parliament has had an opportunity for a thorough examination of the issue.
I do not accept on the face of it the suggestion that a tattle-tale hotline is somehow the same as a crime stoppers hotline. The Auditor General should understand that he is not dealing with organized crime syndicates, he is dealing with hard working Canadian public servants. We all want to save money in this country but not at the expense of Canadians' individual rights.
I do not think the Auditor General should feel free to ignore the advice of the privacy commissioner on civil liberties any more than the privacy commissioner would feel free to ignore accounting advice from the Auditor General.


Mr. Speaker, the tariff on U.S. com places an extra undue burden on Atlantic livestock producers. Atlantic Canadian farmers already straggling to be competitive must now pay more for feed because of higher transportation costs than those in any other area of Canada. On top of this, they must carry the extra burden of the tariff on com. Again, farmers of other areas do not have to absorb such a tariff.
I call on the Minister of State for Privatization and Regulatory Affairs to give this issue top priority and work to remove this tariff which hurts all Atlantic livestock producers in a very real way.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Employment and Immigration is rescheduling deportation of Haitians who fear persecution from the oppressive government of General Namphy in Haiti. They have reason to fear persecution.
On October 4, thugs threatened the staff of Radio Soleil, Radio Cacique and Radio Haiti. On October 6, Vilme Eleazar of the Catholic Church Justice and Peace Commission was stabbed to death after demonstrating with 46 other commission members against the repressive government. On October 12, a land owner, four soldiers and an army second lieutenant shot and killed a peasant in a land dispute. On November 1, one labourer and one political opposition leader were arrested and beaten by police.
Recently two Quebec missionaries have been assassinated. Recently, in the Plaisance communal section, all public gatherings have been forbidden, even religious ones. Renaud Bemarden in Le Devoir calls this state terrorism and points out that candidates for highest office used force to block elections and are demanding

December 6, 1989
that Duvalier supporters be allowed to run in violation of the constitution.
My question is why does the minister insist on sending back people to risk prison, torture and assassination in Haiti?


Mr. Speaker, customs and excise officials have for years been conducting immigration pre-clearance on behalf of the Department of Employment and Immigration at the airport in Houlton, Maine, as a service to residents of the United States on their way to visit Canada. Many of the people who benefit from this service are American sportsmen who are coming to New Brunswick to hunt and fish in our forests and rivers. This industry accounts for approximately $9 million in revenue each year and provides jobs for some 7,000 guides.
The service was discontinued on October 31, 1989, based on the position of employment and immigration that there was no provision in legislation for this activity. However, the principle for permitting the pre-clearance of visitors to Canada on U.S. soil was established in 1974 in a treaty between Canada and the U.S.
I understand that External Affairs has explored the question of expanding this provision to include other locations. I urge the Minister of National Revenue to review this matter and work with his cabinet colleagues to reach a solution that will permit reinstatement of pre-clearance at Houlton, Maine.


Mr. Speaker, some time in January this government is expected to deliver another blow to Atlantic Canada. This will come in the form of an 11 per cent increase in ferry rates for trucks.
The reason for this and other rate increases is the steady reduction in federal subsidies to Crown owned Marine Atlantic. However, in a province like Prince Edward Island, higher transportation costs mean higher priced consumer goods and less competitive exports.
Now that VIA Rail has been forced by this government to reduce its service, we are wondering if Marine Atlantic will be forced to do so as well. I call on the Minister of Transport to refuse this 11 per cent increase, to restore a fair and working subsidy to Marine Atlantic.
The people of Atlantic Canada have suffered too much at the hands of this government and it has to stop now.


Mr. Speaker, despite what the television news was indicating during periods of the past summer, the drought in western Canada has not ended. In fact, the 1989 crop in my constituency of Brandon-Souris and in parts of eastern Saskatchewan was considerably worse than it was in 1988.
Due to the fact that drought and low prices have had an accumulative negative impact on farm incomes, many farmers are experiencing more serious financial circumstances than they ever have before. As the hon. Minister for Grains and Oilseeds has repeatedly indicated publicly that he would readily consider any provincial proposal for a jointly-funded drought relief program, I urge the provincial governments of Saskatchewan and Manitoba to make such an offer immediately. The financial need is real-even though it has not been televised-and governments must jointly respond.


Mr. Speaker, as we near the end of this session, there is some concern about the fate of the bill on unemployment insurance reform which is now before the Senate.
Mr. Speaker, any delay in passing Bill C-21 will deprive many unemployed workers of their unemployment insurance benefits.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to appeal to the Liberal majority in the Senate to stop its obstructionist tactics so that disadvantaged regions will not be penalized. Any delay in passing this bill will have serious consequences. Thousands of unemployed workers who have worked the requisite ten weeks will be unable to receive unemploy-
December 6, 1989

ment insurance benefits if the bill is not passed by the Senate.
Mr. Speaker, families and children will be in great difficulty because of the Senate's obstruction, and I would urge the Senate to show some maturity and common sense so that this bill can be expedited through Parliament.


Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring to the attention of the House a very serious matter. The Armenian people living in Nagorno-Karabakh, which is an autonomous region under the control of the Azerbaijan, have been persecuted by the Azerbaijan government for some years now.
The situation was quieted for a short time when the region was placed under the administration and protection of Moscow. The Supreme Soviet on November 28 made the decision to pull its troops out of the region and as a result the killing of Armenians is starting again.
The Azerbaijani government has also put up a blockade which is seriously hampering efforts to rebuild the area after last year's earthquake.
In light of the Prime Minister's recent trip to the Soviet Union and the changes that are taking place in eastern Europe, I call on the Prime Minister to ask the Soviet Premier to give the protection and right to self-determination that the people of this region deserve.


Mr. Speaker, the following is a list of adjectives which Canadians have used to describe the recent political leadership convention held in Winnipeg: Unbelievable, strange, different, unacceptable, conniving, backstabbing, open,
scarey, marvelous, preposterous, stupid, wonderful and insane.
Should another political party consider a leadership convention, it should refer to the Acme leadership candidates tips:
1.	Never wear a concealed 007 listening device.
2.	Invite media whose objective is to further the party's cause.
3.	Be on guard and constantly protect your back from other candidates.
4.	Take up a foreign language for intimate discussions.
5.	Send your mother and brother on a long vacation at your own expense.
6.	Beware of labour leaders.
Do you copy, Mr. Speaker? Do you copy, Mr. Speaker? If you copy, Mr. Speaker, I'll sit down.


Mr. Speaker, many of the Salvadorans arrested in the raid that saw Karen Ridd of Winnipeg arrested and later released remain in detention. Their lives are in great danger because under the Arena government's state of siege, the military have the power to charge people with assault on the high command, to immediately prosecute them and to sentence them to execution.
When is the Canadian government going to speak out clearly and strongly against the crimes of the Salvadoran regime? When is the Prime Minister going to send a strong message to Mr. Bush that American military aid to the reprehensible Arena government is unacceptable and must stop?
The silence of the Canadian government stems either from naivete or cowardice. I believe it to be the latter. If the Prime Minister remains silent on American aid to the Salvadoran military, then the Canadian government must share responsibility for the military's actions. If those courageous Salvadoran humanitarian workers are executed, the Canadian government, by its acquiescence to the official American view, must share the blame for their deaths. The government must speak out today.

December 6, 1989
Tributes


Mr. Speaker, I rise today to bring to the attention of members the growing success story that is Conair Aviation.
Late in November I had the pleasure of accompanying the Western Economic Diversification minister in Vancouver, where he announced a repayable loan to Conair in the amount of $539,451.
Conair of Abbotsford is a major forest fire-fighting company with some 400 employees. Conair is looking forward to growth in sales and in jobs as a result of the ingenuity and expertise in the business of aircraft rebuilds.
Conair has gained notoriety for having successfully completed over 50 rebuilds of Grumman tracker aircraft. Called Firecats, these fire bombers are gaining popularity in Australia and Europe. France presently has 16 and has plans for more.
Conair anticipates exports of 20 to 30 re-engined, turboprop Firecats at a price of some $3.5 million each. Significantly, each plane sustains 20 jobs a year. Four Firecats a year mean 80 jobs. With the help of the repayable contribution, Conair and its employees will be soaring to new heights.


Mr. Speaker, every year at this time, it is a "parents beware" crisis around Christmas shopping. The Canadian Toy Testing Council releases in early November its annual toy guide for a fee in which it rates toys according to design, function, durability and play value, but it is mute on the question of safety.
This non-profit consumer advocacy group evaluates 1,500 items each year for its annual toy report. Too many of these products are unsafe for our children and therefore should be removed from the shelves.
It is unacceptable that no consumer toy testing agency in Canada has a mandate to test for safety. This is dangerous and irresponsible. The government should be issuing regular bulletins to make parents aware of unsafe toys. More inspectors are needed. Tougher enforcement should be mandatory along with the better labelling of toys.


Mr. Speaker, the election of the new Leader of the New Democratic Party is a tremendous personal achievement and I convey both sincere congratulations and best wishes to her, I am sure, from every comer of this House.
As the first woman to lead a national party, she will bring to Parliament qualities of heart and mind that will benefit this institution. Her personal accomplishment is truly historic and will not be forgotten. It is historic and I congratulate her personally for such a major achievement.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, while there are real and sharp party differences, there is a community of interests and a dedication to the public welfare that tends to make this institution work.
The new leader has already demonstrated her skill and resolve in dealing in this Chamber with the great issues of public policy confronting Canada and I look forward to working with her in the years ahead.

Mr. Speaker, on behalf of my party and of course on behalf of all government members, I wish the Leader of the NDP every success in the performance of her new duties and offer her our assurances of sincere co-operation. As a colleague, I would like to say: Welcome!

The new Leader of the NDP will soon leam the challenges and the difficulties of national leadership, but obviously, one of her sources of joy will be a caucus of solidly united brothers and sisters.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, this morning, Wednesday, was caucus and I could hear their caucus chorus of Solidarity Forever as far away as Meech Lake.


Hear, hear!


I am sure that all members of all parties were impressed with the very fine photo on page one of The Globe and Mail this morning showing the new leader with Shirley Carr, both wearing big smiles. There is no
December 6, 1989

indication yet of what they were saying, and I can hardly wait until tonight to find out.


Oh, oh!


The member should not be offended because much of what Shirley Carr says about me is unprintable too.
Whatever our differences may be in the future, I hope that the new leader keeps in mind that the hon. member for Yukon, whoever he or she is over the years, always has a special place in my heart.


Oh, oh!


Public life brings with it periods of difficulty and moments of great joy. I think that for Canada, for all Canadians, regardless of political persuasion, the hon member's election to the leadership of a great national party will be viewed as a joyful occasion, and I am pleased today, as Prime Minister of Canada, to underline the strength of character and the very impressive personal qualities of the member that made it possible.

On behalf of all Canadians, I wish to extend to the hon. member my sincere congratulations and best wishes for the future.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to add my voice to the thousands of Canadians who are offering congratulations to the new Leader of the New Democratic Party, the hon. member for Yukon.

The victory she won so gallantly, Mr. Speaker, is an historic one. Our colleague can be proud of the fact that she is following in the footsteps of such eminent figures as J.S. Woodsworth, M.J. Coldwell, Tommy Douglas, David Lewis, and his eminent predecessor, the hon. member for Oshawa. On that important day, Mr. Speaker, we all noticed the almost continuous presence at her side of Stanley Knowles, Woodsworth's last colleague who did a symbolic laying-on of hands.
I can inform the new leader that her election changes the dynamics of her own party, of our country and, I
Tributes
hope, of the House of Commons. In fact, I think a number of candidates for the leadership of my own party will be following her performance very closely, since her victory may affect their campaigns!

On a personal level, I want to warn her, Mr. Speaker, that in the coming weeks and months she will be receiving a good deal of advice, some of it solicited, most of it not; advice as to how she should lead the NDP and where she should lead the party. My advice to her is to listen to all of it, but do not compromise your own integrity, do not comprise your own reputation. No two things can disappear faster than reputation and integrity, and with more devastating consequences.
I also want to offer my congratulations to the other NDP candidates in the race. The member for Esqui-malt-Juan de Fuca made a convention speech which was a triumph. He did it his way, no holds barred, but he did it with wit and humour, panache and passion.


Hear, hear!


I know, Your Honour, it is tough to lose a close race like that, but he has accepted the results with grace and equanimity.
The member for Essex-Windsor also delivered a very, very powerful speech. I found it full of direction and commitment.


Hear, hear!


I know it is not easy running for the leadership of a political party. I congratulate every one of the candidates, those who are members of this House and the one who was not-perhaps we might see him here some day-for running excellent races.
I want to say to them that despite the mediocre press they received through a good deal of the campaign, they need to have something to offer since all of the so-called NDP stars sat out the leadership race and became media commentators and pundits, except toward the end of the final day when some of them became platform dancers. Listening to some of the commentary, it was my view that the candidates themselves performed a lot better than the commentators.


Hear, hear!

December 6, 1989
Tributes


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has mentioned the challenges of leadership. Those challenges, I warn her, are unpredictable. We in this party all remember that in response to the initiatives of her predecessor, Erik Nielsen, then the member for Yukon, we had to sweep our caucus room for bugs; not that anything was confidential anyway.


Oh, oh!


I want to suggest to the new leader that she is going to have to go a step further. She is going to have to sweep them as they walk into the room.
I flew back with my colleagues from Winnipeg this morning, and we thought that we would buy her one of those airport metal detectors to put at the caucus door.
In any event, the convention certainly proved that the NDP is a modern party. It has entered the electronic age in a big way.
I do not know whether the hon. member for Yukon is going to accept her predecessor's suggestion which he made to me on several occasions, including on national television, that Canada would function better under a two-party system. Now, I want to tell her, and this is the time to say it to her, Mr. Speaker, that now is the time to talk about it. We are open to that idea. Whenever the NDP is ready to close up shop and join us, we can begin talks, as long as you leave your microphones at the door.
The new leader has said that she enjoys a challenge. Well, I cannot tell the hon. member for Yukon that we in this party wish her electoral success, quite the opposite. We do wish her success in meeting the tough challenge of following, in the initial days, in the footsteps of her very excellent predecessor, the hon. member for Osha-wa.


Hear, hear!


I hope, as a member of the House of Commons, she continues his complete commitment to the House of Commons, to treating this place seriously. If she does, our party and our caucus looks forward to working with her and her party in a co-operative fashion.
Again, my congratulations, Mr. Speaker, to her on her victory, on her new and important role in this country as Leader of her party, as a very, very important Canadian citizen.


Hear, hear!


Thank you, thank you very much for your words of congratulations!

I certainly look forward to working with the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Official Opposition. I would like to say to the Prime Minister that I am glad that members from the Yukon have a special place in his heart. I assure him that he will have a special line in my book.


Hear, hear!


There are a lot of people in this House who can give me very good lessons on being a leader, but the most important lesson I have learned since I have been here is of the dignity with which all leaders in this House have acted. It is correct, I am sure, as we have learned from our own experiences, that at times there are some differences of opinion in caucuses which we as leaders have to work toward mending.
I do not think anyone from now on will say the NDP is not fun. People have asked about my style. Part of our strategy is that we are going to destroy some of those myths. I think we have begun to destroy that one. As the hon. Leader of the Opposition said, we have moved into the age of technology. I got my metal detector on Sunday morning.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, it is a great honour to be here and it is a great honour to serve with all of you. As the Prime Minister said, we certainly have our partisan differences. They are not going to go away. Neither, I suspect, hon. Leader of the Opposition, are any of the parties going to go away.


Hear, hear!


We are all here to serve the Canadian people. I, too, want to pay special tribute to the other candidates in this leadership campaign who acted
December 6, 1989

with honour and who put themselves on the line. We all know what that means in politics. I want to give a special tribute to them. There are other leadership candidates in this room too, and they know what it has been like. I would really like to thank them.


Hear, hear!


Of course, I have had another good teacher in this House and that is the hon. gentleman-I hesitate to say-to my left. I am even going to break the rules, Mr. Speaker. The hon. Ed Broadbent has brought great honour to this House throughout his career, and not only to the New Democratic Party but to us all. He is a politician who is respected, who speaks his mind, who stands up for what he believes. And, in the end, I think that is what we all do.


Hear, hear!


And finally, I want to thank the Prime Minister!

I look forward to working with you. I am sure that this gracious moment will continue through the next-three quarters of an hour!


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Today dozens of mayors from all across Canada are in Ottawa as are many senior citizens and other outraged Canadians from Atlantic Canada and British Columbia. They are all here at their own expense. They are here to renew their call for a moratorium on the cuts to VIA Rail, cuts scheduled to be implemented on January 15.
On November 8 the all-party Standing Committee on Transport issued a report also calling for a moratorium on cuts to VIA Rail. Both inside and outside Parliament
Oral Questions
Canadians of every political stripe are asking this government to halt the slaughter of VIA Rail.
How can the Prime Minister expect to be taken seriously when he says that he believes in parliamentary committees, when he says that he believes in consulting the provinces and municipalities and when he says he believes in listening to senior citizens and the disabled while at the same time he refuses to listen to Canadians who say they want a quality passenger train service in Canada? Why is it that once again the Prime Minister believes that the Cabinet and he are right and all other Canadians are wrong?


Mr. Speaker, I have repeatedly answered questions from the Leader of the Opposition and others about a moratorium.
Today, December 6, 1989, the situation has not changed substantially from what it was in October, as far as resources are concerned. In other words, our reasons for setting new reference levels were based on the ability of people to pay for services that are being used very little. And Mr. Speaker, the first people to benefit from a sensible and efficient approach by government to management are the general public.
I repeat what I said before. I have no intention of requesting or putting a moratorium on the decision concerning VIA Rail.


We have heard that answer from the Minister of Transport before. The following question is directed to the Prime Minister, who has repeatedly told the House about his commitment to parliamentary reform. He has also said that he was personally very proud of the reform of parliamentary committees.
If he wants to be taken seriously, the Prime Minister should bear in mind that a standing committee of the House, with a majority of Conservative members, has asked the government to withdraw the budgetary cutbacks that are to take effect on January 15 at VIA Rail.
Why has the Prime Minister of Canada refused to take the advice of the standing committee? Will he not wait until an interim report by the Royal Commission of Inquiry on Transportation in Canada is published, to find out what the future holds for passenger rail transporta-

Oral Questions
tion, before proceeding with the budgetary cutbacks planned by the Minister of Transport?


The Leader of the Opposition mentioned the benefits of parliamentary reform, and rightly so, but it is not a one-way proposition. The freedom and independence granted parliamentary committees also means that when committes make recommendations, the minister has the right to either consider or not consider them, depending on the government's policies.
Mr. Speaker, we have repeatedly explained our position on paying for services that are not being used by the public.
Mr. Speaker, in the end, whatever the outcome may be, and contrary to what the party opposite did for 20 years, we have an obligation to consider the costs facing us, and when the government decides that those costs go beyond the financial resources available to us, we must take the kind of courageous decisions that this government has made, and that is why, while it has every respect for the advice of the parliamentary committee, the government has decided to stress the commitment to good management it made to Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I want to put the question again to the Prime Minister. On his many international trips surely he has seen what other countries are doing, in Europe and elsewhere, to improve high quality, high speed train service for people. This Prime Minister promised, on coming into office in 1984, to build a co-operative federalism. Not a single provincial government, not a single mayor of Canada's cities or towns approves of the Prime Minister's plans to destroy VIA Rail. From coast to coast Canadians are condemning the plan.
Will the Prime Minister agree, as I have on other occasions, to meet personally with the mayors from across Canada who are in Ottawa today? Does the Prime Minister not agree that these mayors represent an important and critical part of our democratic process and represent directly the communities that elected them and, on behalf of Canadians, have a right to put their case directly to the leader of our government, the Prime Minister of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I certainly acknowledge the very important role played by the mayors in our national life. Indeed, I have had the occasion to meet with many of them on a regular and ongoing basis regarding the matters that they choose to raise.
My right hon. friend asks about comments made by other world leaders when we travel. The principal comment made by world leaders when we travel is the comment that came out of the OECD the day before yesterday: "Continue the work, Government of Canada, of getting your deficit under control because it is key to ongoing economic prosperity for Canada".
There is the key, Mr. Speaker.


Pass that comment on directly to the mayors.


I pass it on to the mayors or to anybody else.
The Leader of the Opposition has spent his career since he came into this House as the captive of any interest group.


Oh, oh!


He constantly puts forward every spending program. Never once has he given the slightest concern, in terms of the control of the deficit, to the massive deficit that began in Canada when the Leader of the Opposition was Minister of Finance.


You doubled it.


That is what we are dealing with. We are trying to clean up the mess left by the former Minister of Finance, the present Leader of the Liberal Party.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. The Minister knows that it costs $45 million to maintain VIA's nine remote routes. Forty-five million dollars would reinstate the chopped routes in Atlantic Canada. The Standing Committee on Transport, as well as the Liberal Party, has recommended that this money be approved separately by Parliament. This would allow for an additional $45 million in VIA's budget and allow for the reinstatement of the Atlantic Canada routes.
December 6, 1989

Will the Minister make this commitment to Atlantic Canadians?


Mr. Speaker, I wish I could count like the Liberal Party does but I just cannot manage that.
Whichever way you look at it, Mr. Speaker, whether the $45 million are drawn from the VIA Rail budget or the government's supplementary estimates, they still add up to $45 million. We simply do not have those millions. We built a national network. We have kept an accessible network for which we can afford to pay.
That is not what my colleague is asking for. My colleague is urging us to do what the Liberal Party has always done: throw in money, more money, still more money!
You forgot to pay the bills and passed them on to us. That is what we are now trying to do.


Mr. Speaker, it is not just the Liberal Party, the Transport Committee is also requesting that this be done.
In October I asked the minister if the VIA Rail cuts would adversely affect CN and CP and he responded: "Absolutely not". I have been advised by CN that the 25 per cent reduction in VIA service has resulted in one in four dispatchers in Moncton being declared surplus and they will lose their jobs effective March 1, 1990.
Given that we now know that the minister's previous assurance was false, has CN misled the minister or, if not, can he explain the discrepancy?


Mr. Speaker, decisions which are made are made for VIA Rail when we are dealing with VIA Rail and CN when we are dealing with CN. The people of CN can say what they want.
I tell my friend here today that we made a decision in light of the resources we had and in light of the fact that Canadians want us to control the spending of the government. This is exactly what we are doing.
Oral Questions EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has just returned from meetings in Brussels with other NATO leaders. The world has been watching the profound changes in eastern Europe, changes in which I think all of us applaud and take great joy and pleasure.
Can the Prime Minister tell us now, however, what he has proposed at those meetings as specific actions that Canada will take to take strong leadership in order to speed up this process of ending the cold war?


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend rightly points to the centre of the most dramatic and most convulsive developments in the world today.
When the Secretary of State for External Affairs and I visited with President Bush, and when we were at NATO, we put forward a series of specific recommendations that we thought would be helpful in constituting the beginnings, at least, of a bridge between the Soviet Union and the western alliance and the industrialized nations.
They range from consideration for the idea put forward by President Mitterrand about an eastern European development bank, to membership in the IMF, to the requirement for the outgoing chairman of the industrialized summit to meet with President Gorbachev on a yearly basis, as well as a series of other initiatives.
We think that if all of these are taken together with other ideas that have been put forward by other leaders, there are the beginnings of the building of a solid bridge which will advance the causes that are being sought by my hon. friend and, I think, by all members of the House.


Mr. Speaker, I think we all agree that there needs to be real action on the economic issues that confront eastern Europe and, indeed, the developing world. I want to pose again a specific question because while Canada's role indeed should be to build bridges, surely we can also take leadership.

Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I want to ask the Prime Minister specifically, in an attempt to really demonstrate not just a commitment but action and that we believe the cold war is over, will the Prime Minister now agree to stop low-level flights in this country, to stop cruise missile testing over the north?


Mr. Speaker, I think, as I indicated to the House the other day, and as many members from all parties have indicated, we are entering a new and important era of relationships between east and west. We should be sensitive to all opportunities for change. We should not reject ideas out of hand simply because they have not been tried before or they have been tried and found wanting.
I agree with the openness of the approach suggested by my hon. friend. I draw to her attention the comments made to me and the Secretary of State for External Affairs by President Gorbachev. He said that the most imprudent thing that could be done at this time, given the enormity of the changes in eastern Europe, would be changes in the structures of the alliances because at this particular time any such changes could be destabilizing with regard to the efforts that he and others are trying to bring about.
So while I take good note of the comments made by my hon. friend, I point out that the progress we have made so far, and it has been remarkable in the last number of years, has been brought about in large measure because of the leadership of President Gorbachev on the one side, but the solidarity of NATO on the other. We propose to keep that.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure that the Prime Minister is aware of the remarks by his former ambassador on disarmament who said that, in fact, we are following the United States on disarmament issues. I am suggesting we take the lead. I may be new at it but it seems to me that leadership means leading from the front and not the back.

This is a historic moment. Canada must assume her rightful role as world peace leader. Now is the time to come up with constructive and positive suggestions. Why would the government not take this opportunity to
display leadership by proposing measures over which we have direct control?


Mr. Speaker, to answer the question properly, I must quote from an interview given by the Foreign Minister, Mr. Shervardnadze, on November 23, where he said, according to the English translation:

"As the Soviet leader stressed,-"

That was the interview granted by Mr. Shevardnadze. [English]
"-the Canadian Prime Minister's visit to the U.S.S.R. ranks among the events which help to change the world situation with a focus on a better future-The political declaration signed by the leaders of Canada and the U.S.S.R. is an intellectual and political breakthrough into the new interdependent world", and so on.

We have done two things as a government. First, we made a series of specific recommendations-seven, if I am not mistaken-for building bridges of friendship and realistic relations between the two blocs and, as Mr. Shevardnaze said so well, we have changed our attitude significantly. We will maintain this forward-looking position along with the positions which the hon. member will announce in this House.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the President of the Treasury Board who intends to put hospital service workers and ships crews back to work. These workers have been providing emergency services during the strike in spite of the government's tyranical action over the past two years to force them to accept pitiful salaries. How can the government justify this back-to-work legislation?


As I was saying yesterday, Mr. Speaker, the informal negotiations which started several months ago are continuing. I said yesterday that if we could reach a negotiated settlement, I would favour this solution over a legislated settlement. I am still prepared, day or night, to meet the union leaders to try and reach a settlement

of this type. But for the time being, we have reached a dead end and major issues are still on the table. We are faced in one case with demands for yearly increases of 17.4 per cent, and in the other, 14.3 per cent.
In this conflict the interest of medium term public safety and public health must be resolved. That is why we will introduce later today a bill to set up a process for reaching a settlement. Mr. Speaker, I can say that we will not legislate an agreement per so, but rather a means to achieve a settlement.


Mr. Speaker, the workers have been providing emergency services. The Minister of Transport told the House yesterday that there is no problem with safety on the St. Lawrence River. Where was the minister's concern for safety last month when 1,700 lobster fishermen put out to sea? Is not the real reason for the sledgehammer of back-to-work legislation protecting the profits of the friends of government in the shipping business?


Mr. Speaker, the real reason for the legislation is to break an impasse that does not seem to be able to be resolved through negotiations. I have said it before and I will say it again. I am willing to sit down at the table. Informal negotiations have been continuing throughout. The situation is at a point now where the two parties are so far apart, with demands of 17 and 14 per cent annual wage increases compared to 4.1 per cent for the rest of the 155,000 public servants, that we feel we have to move.
I would like to quote from a letter I received from Iris Craig, President of PIPS, who says: "The current and anticipated labour disruptions will undoubtedly have an egregious impact on the health and safety of government clients. Furthermore, any extended inoperation of federal government ships will jeopardize research activities in which significant time, energy and money has been invested. It will also jeopardize the Maritime economy of our country."
She is saying: "do something", and that is exactly what we are doing.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question also is directed to the President of the Treasury Board and it is twofold. It was partly covered in his last answer.
If it is necessary to introduce legislation, is he still prepared to negotiate, even with the legislation introduced? And in view of his answer yesterday about pay equity when he said that if there was a settlement there would be pay equity, which has been a longstanding problem in these trades, how does he intend to implement pay equity where the contracts are staggered and overlapping?


Mr. Speaker, first, even with the legislation introduced, I would be willing to negotiate at any time. I will repeat that commitment. I am available and I will be willing to negotiate.
In terms of the other part of my hon. colleague's question with regard to pay equity between the east coast workers and the west coast workers, the offer on the table at the moment is that as of the date of signing of the new bargaining agreement the east coast workers would get exactly the same compensation as the west coast workers so they would have parity.


Mr. Speaker, my question is also directed to the President of the Treasury Board. Yesterday he informed this House that wage parity was offered to the unions. What he did not say was that he would only agree to it if the unions dropped all the other issues.
Will he today, rather than introduce this legislation- legislation which indeed we will not support-continue to support this wage parity and at the same time return to the negotiating table and negotiate separately the outstanding issues that are there?


Mr. Speaker, I would like to correct the premise of the question. I indicated yesterday and I indicated again today that wage parity was very much on the table and up-front on the day of signing. I would just like to assure my hon. colleague that there was never any question about this offer being conditional on dropping all of the demands.

Oral Questions
We know very well that there are other issues that have to be resolved and this particular issue was agreed upon without a further condition that all other demands be dropped.


Mr. Speaker, I get a different story when talking to other people. We are now seeing the true value of the work being performed by these people. For instance, for every day that these ships' crews remain on strike it is costing the Great Lakes' economy approximately $2 million. Six million dollars will end this strike, that is three days of striking.
Again, rather than bringing in this legislation will the minister return to the table with the unions and settle this strike today, which can be done?


Mr. Speaker, I have had informal conversations overnight, in the evening and again this morning, and as recently as roughly an hour before Question Period. I am still negotiating. I am there, I have said it repeatedly, and I will stay there. I am willing to discuss all and every remaining issue to try to get to a negotiated settlement.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Industry, Science and Technology. Almost 18,000 General Motors workers are now being laid off in addition to other plant shutdowns throughout Ontario, Quebec and other parts of Canada.
What action is this government taking to prevent more major job cuts in this industry as happened in the early 1980s? Does the government understand how urgent this crisis is becoming? Will the government act to do something serious?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows, automobile sales, particularly by the big three North American manufacturers, are down considerably, some 13.8 per cent in November of this year compared to last year. As a result there is less production from the plants.
One of the things I think we can be particularly happy about in Canada is that as the auto industry has had to reduce its capacity, in reflecting this fact Canada has
done very well. For example, Chrysler has laid off 4,000 in the U.S. and has not yet laid off people in Canada, although it probably will.
Since 1987 nine plants have closed in the United States. So far we have avoided that happening in Canada. We cannot avoid that forever, but so far we have shown that the Canadian auto industry is very competitive compared to the American auto industry. As this cyclical adjustment goes through the economy, we are fortunate in Canada that we have not borne the same brunt the Americans have.


Mr. Speaker, in fact much of the reason for this cyclical downturn is the tremendously high interest rates in this country. Surely the government should be moving on this.
In 1987 the international trade committee of this House unanimously called for maximum political and diplomatic pressure on offshore producers so as to meet the same Canadian content levels that the U.S. owned companies have to meet.
Could the Secretary of State for External Affairs tell this House if the government has followed the recommendation to put this full diplomatic pressure on offshore producers, or has the government simply ignored the recommendation?


Mr. Speaker, just over the weekend in looking at Canada's economic performance the OECD commented with high praise for what Canada is doing in this regard. As I pointed out, we have had in the last five years a growth rate second only to Japan, and just marginally so. We have incomes that are much higher than they were five years ago. The rate of poverty is down.
Yes, at the moment there is a drop off in car sales, and there are certain indications of a slowdown in the economy. But none of the major North American manufacturers are blaming this on foreign imports or on unfair competition.
The hon. member knows full well the posture of this government in respect to international trade. We are active in the MTN in terms of lowering trade barriers. We will continue to be so in our belief that it is good for the economy of Canada and the world and that Canadians can compete.
December 6, 1989


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. He will be aware that the Government of Alberta has produced a paper that relates to the GST that is both mischievous and inaccurate.
I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if there is any evidence that he can find to indicate that the proposed GST would take more tax from the province of Alberta than the present manufacturers' sales tax? What does his research indicate with respect to the allegation that in fact the GST would be a tax grab of some $6 billion and is not revenue neutral?


Mr. Speaker, I have looked at that particular document. It is full of overblown rhetoric. I think it is something that people should review with a great deal of skepticism because of the nature of the particular report.
We do have figures which indicate that the amount of GST net of all the credits will be less than the amount of sales tax paid by people who are living in that province.
In addition, I can tell the hon. member that the low income credit is a very generous element of this over-all package. For the province of Alberta the credit will generate about $308 million and will be received by just short of 800,000 residents of the province of Alberta.
It is a balanced package. It is a package that is going to be favourable to the economy of Alberta. It is a fair package and will definitely be favourable to those people in the low and modest income brackets.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to test the minister on some of his own overblown rhetoric.
Yesterday, in answering a question in this House, he tried to tell us that the dividend tax credit was going to reimburse seniors for the clawback of old age pensions. The minister knows, or he should know if he understands his own tax system, that this is utter nonsense.
Oral Questions
The minister knows that the clawback is going to apply to a senior who receives only $40,000 in Canadian dividends, in spite of what he says the minimum threshold is. He also knows that that threshold is not indexed for inflation.
Will the minister admit that he was wrong in his answer yesterday? Will he admit that he is wrong in proposing this policy?


Mr. Speaker, I have commented on a number of occasions as to the rationale of this policy. It always surprises me that we have members of the Liberal Party spending more time trying to defend the interests of 4 per cent of senior citizens rather than concerning themselves with the problems of many other people in the country who merit their attention far more than this.


Are they not Canadians?


Let me also make the point that the design of the tax back on old age security and family allowances is based on putting different elements of income on the same pre-tax basis, that is, interest income, dividend income, pension income-all forms of income on a pre-tax basis-and then having done that apply the tax back based on that amount of money.


Mr. Speaker, the minister demonstrates that he does not understand the dividend gross up.
He also said yesterday, and he effectively reiterated it today, that we cannot afford to continue to subsidize seniors in upper income brackets. That is essentially what he has just said again.
This is the same minister who brought in a capital gains exemption, who is proposing massive increases in RRSP limits, who has lowered the top marginal tax bracket. What are all those things except subsidies for upper income people?
He uses this as the basis for ending universality. He is not even trying to protect seniors against inflation.
How does the minister justify to the seniors of Canada this two-faced, discriminatory policy?


Mr. Speaker, there are a large number of allegations in the preamble to that question. Let me just pick out one.
He is talking about the increase in the RRSP limits. The legislation that we are proposing to bring in is going

Oral Questions
to put people who save only through registered retirement plans and people who save only through registered retirement savings plans on the same basis. It is a very equitable piece of legislation. I am sure that the hon. member, when he sees it, will agree with it.
The other part of the legislation which the hon. member is ignoring when he makes that comment is that this legislation is going to shut down a large number of loopholes that have crept in over the years to allow a degree of retirement savings over and above the limitations that were intended to be. The net result of this is that the closing of the loopholes will pay for the equitable elements that will put all people who are saving for retirement on the same basis.
It is good legislation. It is equitable legislation. It is legislation which closes down loopholes.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. It is about the Imperi-al-Texaco deal.
He will know that the former director of the competition bureau took the rare step of referring this deal to the tribunal. The tribunal chairperson in her decision criticized the former director for being "highly presumptuous if not arrogant" in his handling of the Texaco deal.
Does the minister share the assessment of the chairperson of that tribunal? How do we as Canadians know that the same mishandling of those deals has not occurred in all the other cases which have not been referred to the tribunal?


Mr. Speaker, Mr. Cal Goldman who took over as head of the competition bureau after the passage of the new Competition Act, after many abortive attempts by the previous government, did an exemplary job of handling that. I find it regrettable that the hon. member would stand up and slander his reputation in that manner.
In terms of the Imperial-Texaco decision, the head of the tribunal, Justice Reid, made certain recommendations. The current head of the competition bureau, Mr. Wetston, said he was looking at them and making accommodations. I understand they will be appearing, I think perhaps even tomorrow, with the restructured deal. I think we ought to let that process which is an excellent process that works we