Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government responses to 16 petitions.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.] PROPOSED GOODS AND SERVICES TAX


Mr. Speaker, I rise today, at the beginning of this continuing session, to present petitions again dealing with the GST, the goods and services tax, which is rejected by most Canadians.
These petitioners would like to tell the House of Commons how strongly they feel about this imposition of an additional tax on goods and services. This tax will be hidden from Canadians and it will be applied to virtually everything they buy.
They say that the imposition of this new goods and services tax will cause serious and unfair hardship to low and middle income Canadians, that the imposition of the tax will create an onerous burden on small business. This is an unprecedented tax grab from the pockets of Canadians that will hit them not only with higher taxes but with higher inflation, higher interest and higher unemployment.
The petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to reject this proposed goods and services tax at 7 per cent or at any percentage.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour and privilege to rise, pursuant to Standing Order 36, to present a petition signed by 70 people in the towns of Bonavista, Elliston, Melrose, Middle Catalina, Catalina and Port Union.
These people are very concerned about Bill C-21. Specifically in their case it is taking $1.3 billion from the unemployment insurance business and taking it away from job development strategy programs which in fact provide infrastructure for the communities. As well there is the $2.9 billion the government is taking out. It really is getting out of the unemployment insurance business altogether.
They are concerned about the weeks that they will have for benefits. They are concerned about what is estimated to be the $112 million that will be taken out next year if this bill goes through.
The petitioners humbly pray that Bill C-21 will be withdrawn.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36, I would also like to present a number of petitions today concerning the proposed goods and services tax, which should appropriately be called the grief and suffering tax.
This petition is signed by a number of citizens of the great community of Windsor, so ably represented in the House of Commons by my distinguished colleague, the hon. member for Windsor West.


Mr. Speaker, I too have a petition to present under Standing Order 36 on the goods and services tax, signed by a number of people in the country.

January 23, 1990
Routine Proceedings
What they are saying is that we have an unfair tax system. We should have a fair tax system based on the ability to pay, where wealthy people pay their fair share and where corporations pay their fair share, not where ordinary citizens of this country pick up the entire burden.
I am very pleased to table, under the provisions of Standing Order 36 and on behalf of these people, the petition in opposition to the goods and services tax.


Mr. Speaker, I also rise under Standing Order 36 to present a petition that has been brought to me by small business people in my community.
They are very upset about the goods and services tax. They say that it forces small business to carry a disproportionate share of the tax burden in Canada. They also say that its implementation will be a nightmare for small business in Canada and that the offsetting is not adequate to support them in their businesses when they must change their computer programs and their cash registers. They say that this tax does not address the concerns of small business in this country.
The petitioners call upon this government to reject the goods and services tax and to consult with labour and consumer groups to reach a broad consensus on tax reform.


Mr. Speaker, I have a pile of petitions from people from Blue River, Birch Island, Vavenby, Vola, Clearwater, Blackpool, Little Fort, Barrier, McClure, Hempley Creek and many other centres in the North Thompson Valley.
They point out their concern with the government's decision to pursue the 7 per cent goods and services tax. They basically cannot believe it and point out a whole list of reasons for it adversely affecting the residents of the North Thompson Valley.
The petitioners ask the government to come to its senses, to back away from this tax, to return to the drawing board and come up with real, comprehensive tax reform.


I have a petition, Mr. Speaker, again on behalf of a number of people from the
Kamloops region who point out that they are interested in the government maintaining a national rail network for passenger service.
They are asking the government to consider investing in new equipment as has been done in other western industrialized nations in terms of rail passenger service and to consider introducing a VIA Rail bill that would give the government an opportunity to see proper passenger rail service introduced in Canada and not close that southern route across the country.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36, the following petition is presented to the House by hundreds of residents from the communities of Tracadie, Sheila, Pont-Lafrance, Petite-Riviere-de-l'ile, Sainte-Cecile and Rogersville, and your petitioners are very much concerned about the fact that the federal Conservative Government is going to impose on Canadians a new, universal 7 per cent tax on goods and services. They are well aware of the disastrous impact a tax like this will have on the economy of northern New Brunswick, and they ask Parliament to reject the new goods and services tax which has been massively rejected by Canadians across this country.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under Standing Order 36 to present a petition regarding the proposed goods and services tax. It is signed by concerned Canadians who strongly oppose this tax. They feel that it will cause serious and unfair hardship on low and middle income Canadians and that it will cause higher taxes, higher inflation, higher interest rates and higher unemployment.
The petitioners humbly pray and call upon Parliament to reject this proposed goods and services tax.


Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure for me to rise today under Standing Order 36 to present a petition from quite a number of constituents from Paris, Dunnville, Waterford, Woodstock and Brantford.
January 23, 1990

They are opposed to the goods and services tax and recognize that the government is now trying to tax reading materials, haircuts, diapers, coffins and home heating fuels.
They humbly pray that the government reject the current proposal for a goods and services tax and that taxation be reformed so that there is an effective minimum tax on wealthy individuals and corporations.


Mr. Speaker, I have another petition signed by a number of constituents from Winnipeg, Dryden, and Saskatoon, to name a few, who are opposed to the VIA Rail cuts that are taking place.
They are asking the Parliament of Canada to maintain and to upgrade VIA Rail's present national network, not take away from something we already have.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour today to present two petitions to the House, both certified under Standing Order 36.
The first one is regarding VIA Rail. Petitioners from all across the country call upon Parliament to upgrade VIA Rail with new equipment, to introduce a passenger train bill giving VIA Rail a firm legislative mandate and to develop a revised costing arrangement with the railroad companies whose track VIA uses.
I think we all know how much Canadian National and Canadian Pacific have ripped off VIA Rail.


Mr. Speaker, the second petition ties in with the debate in this House now for a fairer tax system across the country, not the grief and suffering tax being introduced by the Conservative government.
This is in the regard to the report of the task force on tax benefits for northern and isolated areas released on Friday, October 27.
These petitioners primarily from Crescent Spur and the Prince George area call on Parliament to reject the recommendations of the report and to develop a fair and equitable tax benefit program which recognizes the
Routine Proceedings
financial needs of the people in northern and isolated areas.
We trust the Minister of Finance will hear their words.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to present petitions under Standing Order 36. The first petition relates to the situation in El Salvador and calls on Canada to utilize its membership in the Organization of American States to pursue independent diplomatic policy leading to the full protection of human rights and a peaceful resolution to the conflict in El Salvador.
It is signed by many hundreds of my constituents.


Mr. Speaker, the second petition I am presenting under Standing Order 36 relates to the cut-backs to VIA and the joining of efforts of the Transport 2000 and Rural Dignity in order to obtain justice and satisfaction to the reinstatement and enhancement of passenger rail service in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, the third petition relates to the goods and services tax. There is, as you are well aware, broad rejection across this country to this kind of tax reform. These petitioners come from Manitoba and from Ontario.
The final petition is also against the goods and services tax. It relates to the petitioners' awareness that the tax burden is being shifted to ordinary Canadians and is not any semblance of real tax reform.


Mr. Speaker, I too rise under Standing Order 36 to present four petitions today from people from Ontario, central British Columbia and Saskatchewan who are like minded in their opposition to the goods and services tax. They express in their petition that a tax on goods and services is a regressive tax which hits low and middle income earners the hardest and that Canadians are already overtaxed.
This further tax burden could and would adversely affect the economy. They call upon this House not to pass the goods and services tax and, based on broad public consensus, to replace our current sales tax proposals and our manufacturers' sales tax with the kind of tax

January 23, 1990
Routine Proceedings
that would be progressive and would be in the interests of all Canadians, not just those Canadians who have a high income.
They view this as a massive tax grab and I am privileged to table these petitions on their behalf.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present petitions today on a number of subjects.
I have a petition signed by many senior citizens from my constituency of Burnaby-Kingsway who express serious concern about the clawback on old age security benefits to pensioners. They suggest that the taxing back of old age security is a direct threat to the principle of universality which is at the core of the Canadian social system.
They urge that Parliament reject the government's policy to initiate an inequitable and unjust clawback of old age security benefits.


Mr. Speaker, I have a petition which has been signed once again by residents of Burnaby and Vancouver which points out that one-sixth of all Canadian children live in poverty. The number of children living in poverty in some provinces is as high as 26 per cent. It is particularly high in the Atlantic provinces where there is a crisis, whether or not the Prime Minister recognizes it.
These petitioners call upon Parliament to support private member's motion No. 254 initiated by my very distinguished colleague from Mission-Coquitlam.
They call upon the government to negotiate with the provinces to provide a comprehensive bill of rights for children.


Mr. Speaker, I have petitions signed by hundreds of residents from across Canada including my own constituency. They are signed by many artists and actors from the Shaw Festival in Niagara-on-the-Lake who point out that railway passenger services carried on by VIA Rail is essential for many Canadians and has been a part of Canada for more than 100 years.
They express concern about the cuts in VIA Rail service and they call upon Parliament to maintain the existing VIA network, upgrade VIA equipment and guarantee VIA sufficient support to cany out its mandate to provide passenger rail service across this land.


Finally, Mr. Speaker, along with many other members of this House, I am sure from all sides, I wish to table petitions that have been signed once again by hundreds of Canadians, including particularly constituents from Burnaby-Kingsway, as well as seniors from the Bonsor Senior Centre, and members of the Construction and General Workers Union, Local 602.
These individuals express concern about the proposed goods and services tax. They point out that it is an unfair form of taxation because of its lack of regard for the taxpayers' ability to pay.
They call upon Parliament to reject the current proposal for a goods and services tax and to bring in meaningful tax reforms so that there is in fact an effective minimum tax on wealthy individuals and corporations. They urge the government to reject this massive tax grab.


Mr. Speaker, I too have a petition to present under Standing Order 36 signed by 136 residents of Nanaimo and the neighbouring community.
Petitioners argue that the enforced pay back of old age security benefits by pensioners with incomes over $50,000 taints the legitimacy of social security benefits as income. Moreover, it is a threat to the principle of universality, which is the core of the Canadian social system.
The petitioners humbly pray and ask Parliament to reject the government policy to initiate this inequitable and unjust clawback of old age pension security benefits.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36, today I wish to present a petition that rejects the recommendations made by the Task Force on Tax Benefits for Isolated and Northern Areas. Your petitioners, who represent the isolated community of Lebel-sur-Quevillon in Abitibi, are concerned about the
January 23, 1990

report's recommendations which will cause a number of workers to be laid off. They believe that the Government of Canada refuses to make adjustments to reflect the fact that life in the North is hard, isolated and expensive.
Mr. Speaker, according to the disparity index for the 84 isolated communities designated by the Government of Quebec in October 1989, Lebel-sur-Quevillon ranks seventieth.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present today, pursuant to Standing Order 36, a petition which has been certified by the clerk. It is from residents of Calgary Northeast who are opposed to the goods and services tax. Those residents feel that even reducing the taxation to 7 per cent is not acceptable. It is a discriminatory tax, hurting the consumer as well as hurting our trade ability with other countries.
I have a total of 11,000 signature and here are 1,011 more.


Mr. Speaker, I have much pleasure in presenting a petition which calls upon Parliament to reject the goods and services tax. These people, in this case from the great province of New Brunswick, are like Canadians all over this country, including those from Alberta we just heard from and others we have heard from this morning and for the last many months.
They are saying one and the same thing: "Government, go back to the drawing board. We believe in tax reform, but we believe it ought to be in a form that does not sock it to poorer people".
That is what the goods and services tax is doing, and they are appealing to the good sense of the government back-benchers to reject this particular tax.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Routine Proceedings
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: Nos. 149, 180, 190 and 195.


Has the government any projections of the costs (both personnel and equipment) of administering the changes to the pension adjustment (PA), past service pension adjustment (PSPA) and pension adjustment reversal (PAR) reporting contained in the draft amendments to the Income Tax Act and, if so, what are they?


Pension Reform will be implemented in stages over a two-year period, provided Parliament approves the handling of PA, PAR and PSPA reporting. The estimated costs for personnel, capital acquisition and operating expenses based on the premise that all facets of Pension Reform become operational by January 1, 1990 are as follows:
	1990/91
(a) Person Year Costs	151
(b) Capital Costs ($000's)	4,814
(c) Operating Costs ($000's)	7,857


Is the government aware of the studies done by the Department of Finance regarding VIA Rail and referred to by the Minister of Transport during Question Period on June 6, 1989 and, if so (a) what are their titles (b) what was their purpose (c) what conclusions did they reach (d) what methodology did they use?


The studies referred to by the Honourable Benoit Bouchard, Minister of Transport, on June 6, 1989 are those that were conducted as part of the Budget preparation exercise. Both the studies and methodologies were tabled and released publicly during the last week of April as part of the Budget documents.
They include a five-year fiscal plan and a detailed fiscal strategy for bringing the public debt under control and raising the living standards of Canadians.

January 23, 1990
Routine Proceedings
The conclusion reached in regard to VIA Rail was that VIA should be expected to adopt a more commercial approach and to operate in a more cost effective manner. VIA was asked to bring forward a business plan which would achieve the objectives set by the government and respect reference levels.


In respect of the publication entitled (a) From Backyards to Borders.federal environmental action in Canada's communities (b) A Decade of Achievement: Environment and Energy Research and Development (c) Toward a Common Future, A Report on Sustainable Development and its Implications for Canada, distributed at the Annual Conference of First Ministers (i) what number were produced in each official language (ii) what were the printing costs of each issue (iii) what were the other costs of production (including any fees paid to writers or photographers) for each issue?


(a)	From Backyards to Borders
(i)	25,506 English; 10,261 French
(ii)	$40,633.14
(iii)	$20,270
(b)	A Decade of Achievement: Environment and Energy Research & Development
(i)	10,000 bilingual
(ii)	$42,417.92
(iii)	$40,071.96
(c)	Toward a Common Future: A Report on Sustainable Development and its Implications for Canada
(i)	4,830 English; 3,519
(ii)	$22,399.63
(iii)	$38,665.16


1.	Are there tenants leasing public buildings within the National Capital Commission's purview and, if so, what are their names?
2.	Are rents charged on public buildings or other space within the National Capital Commission's purview and, if so, in what amounts?
Hon. Elmer Macintosh MacKay (Minister of Public
Works): The Commission's total tenant list, and all rents charged, are not releasable to the public* due to the following:
The names and addresses of residential tenants, and rents paid by these tenants, fall under the definition of personal information under the Privacy Act. This matter has been referred to the Federal Court.
The Commission is of the opinion that disclosure of rents paid by commercial tenants could prejudice the tenants' competitive position and the Commission's negotiating ability. The Information Commissioner's recommendations on this matter are currently under review by the Commission.
The Member may wish to exercise her rights under the Access to Information Act.
*The Access to Information Act does not differentiate between Members of Parliament and the "general public".


The questions as enumerated by the parliamentary secretary have been answered.


Mr. Speaker, if Questions Nos. 177 and 179 could be made Orders for Return, those returns would be tabled immediately.


Is it the pleasure of the House that Questions Nos. 177 and 179 be deemed to have been made Orders for Return?


Agreed.


Is the government aware of the difficulties in the fishing industry in Northeast New Brunswick and, if so (a) what will be implemented before next spring (b) what is being considered for that region in terms of (i) emergency employment programs for fishermen and fish plant workers (ii) the development and marketing of new and value-added products and under-utilized species (iii) economic development plans from the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency which include nonseasonal work (iv) new markets for fish products?
January 23, 1990

Return tabled.


With respect to grants given out by the Department of Multiculturalism and Citizenship in 1989 (a) what is the (i) maximum (ii) minimum (iii) average length of time it takes to process funding applications (b) how does this compare with other departments (c) what (i) number (ii) percentage of the applications are given approval for funding (d) what is the (i) name of the recipient (ii) purpose (iii) amount of each grant?
Return tabled.


Mr. Speaker, I ask that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order concerning the Order Paper Questions. This is an issue that has been brought to the attention of Mr. Speaker before, but unfortunately I must bring it to the attention of the Speaker today.
I have a question on the Order Paper that dates back to October 30. I recognize that it is a rather lengthy question. Nevertheless, the 45 days permitted under the rules, because this is a 45-day type question pursuant to the Standing Order, have now extended to close to 90 days; in other words, double the length of time. I look for some guidance from the Speaker and the parliamentary secretary to getting a commitment for an answer from the government.
I also bring the following to your attention. Question No. 182 dated November 9 also standing in my name is a relatively short, concise and I think simple question to answer. I think even the government would recognize that it is a very uncomplicated type of question. It has been on the Order Paper since that time.
One of the side effects of this-I draw this to your attention-is the fact that Standing Order 39(4) says that no member shall have more than four questions on the Order Paper at any one time. Because of the fact that we cannot get responses to these questions, I am prevented by the rules of the House from asking new questions. In other words, I cannot place questions on the Order Paper because my spaces are all taken up. They are taken up because the government is not answering the ques-
Routine Proceedings
tions that I placed already and which have been there for some time.
The Clerk of the Journals Branch could easily inform you, Mr. Speaker, that I have a backlog of questions resting on his desk right now. I am waiting for these questions to be answered in order to be able to pose those new questions which I believe to be of public interest and, in any case, which are my right to ask as a Member of Parliament.
Again, I hope that you would look into the matter, Mr. Speaker. I am looking for your guidance as well as the co-operation of the parliamentary secretary so that we can get answers to these questions and any others that have been on the Order Paper, clearly marked under the 45-day provision, and which have been there for a considerable period of time.


I am going to call upon the parliamentary secretary because I am sure hon. members would not suspect for one moment that he had dreamed up this elaborate plan to keep the hon. member from putting questions on the Order Paper.


Mr. Speaker, I want to assure the House that I did not do any such thing. I certainly would not want to in any way impinge on the member's rights and in fact responsibilities and obligations to ask questions.
I do, however, want to say that we have had so far 145 priority questions asked and we have been successful in answering 82.8 per cent of those. Those are the priority questions. With the regular questions, we are presently sitting at 88.7 per cent. We certainly are doing our best to make sure that we answer those as close to the deadlines as we can and, if possible, to exceed them.
In the particular question that my friend refers to, I was not able to lay my hand on that question. If I am not mistaken, it is a very serious question that the member has asked regarding one of the trips that the Prime Minister took. What the member would like to know, among other things, is how many pieces of luggage each member who went on that trip took.
In all fairness, it does take us a fair amount of time to track down individual people to ask them how many pieces of luggage they took, what they took and whether they put it on the plane or whether they carried it on board with them. If the hon. member thinks that is a serious and important question, then I am sorry, but he is

January 23, 1990
Routine Proceedings
just going to have to wait for us to take the time to dig out the information that he requests.


Mr. Speaker, as a matter of fact, that was not the question that I was referring to. I was referring to Question No. 182.1 referred to Question No. 162 as well. It is the one that is 90 days. Question No. 182 has been there for more than 45 days.
I have just noticed that another question standing in my name has been there since December 6. This one is merely to ask the names of the notaries working for the Federal Business Development Bank. That list should be available in something like 15 minutes. The question has been on the Order Paper in excess of 45 days.
The government has now confessed that one out of eveiy five priority questions is not answered in accordance with the rules. They are deficient close to 20 per cent of the time by the government's own admission. In my case, all of the questions that are on the Order Paper in my name except one have exceeded the 45 days and none of them have been answered yet.


First, I want to correct a couple of things. I did not say that 82.8 per cent of the questions were filed on time or responded to on time. I said that 82.8 per cent of those questions have been responded to. There are at the moment a few late and I am quite prepared to concede that. We are on top of those on a regular basis.
If the hon. member is referring to question No. 197, he did not simply ask for the names of the lawyers and the notaries for FBDB, he wanted to know all the fees paid to them and that does take time.
In all fairness, we on this side our best to answer these questions on time. I personally try to make sure that they are answered on time, but when members continue to ask questions that require very detailed responses, that require checking and verifying with a number of individuals and offices, it becomes practically impossible for us to meet the 45 day deadline. We will continue at every occasion to do our best.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the difficulty faced by the parliamentary secretary. I know he has
trouble sometimes with the questions asked of him, but he has some statistics. He told us what percentage of questions he had answered. I wonder if he could also tell us the number of 45 day questions that were answered late; in other words, the percentage of the 82 per cent that he has answered that were in fact beyond the 45 day limit. Is it 90 per cent of them or 95 per cent of them? Could he give us that breakdown as well?


I do not of course want to bring this brilliant debate to a close because these are matters of importance and the number of questions that a member puts on the Order Paper often reflects the diligence of that member. The rule is there to be followed unless there is very good reason why the government cannot manage it in the time.
I appreciate the comment of the hon. member for Kingston and the Islands that he appreciates the position in which the parliamentary secretary finds himself. I think that the hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott- Russell has made a point and the parliamentary secretary knows that he is being pressed. I am sure that he will pass that message on.
If it is of any help, the parliamentary secretary could also remind those who have to get these answers that the rule, as I have said before, was not put in the book to lie in abeyance or to exist in a vacuum. It is there as a direction to the government and to the bureaucracy to respond as adequately and as quickly as they can to questions which must be deemed serious.
The hon. member for Kingston and the Islands asks another very detailed and complicated question. I would hope that he could handle that issue on a matter of personal negotiation with the parliamentary secretary because it might take quite a long time to find the answer to the question that he has asked.
I think I will leave it with the parliamentary secretary to do everything he can to obtain from others the kind of co-operation that is in keeping with the spirit of the rule.
Shall the remaining questions be allowed to stand?


Agreed.


Orders of the day.
January 23, 1990


Mr. Speaker, I just noticed that you skipped over the routine proceedings that call for applications pursuant to Standing Order 52. You were right in calling orders of the day but I would like to make the point that some of us in this House feel that because of yesterday's proceedings, the privileges of some of the members in this House have not in my view been protected by the Standing Orders as they exist today.
The argument that I am going to make is that you received on January 18 last a letter, signed by the hon. member for Beausejour, asking for an emergency debate on the fishing situation, the escalating crisis in the cod, lobster, snow crab, and herring roe fisheries in Atlantic Canada, characterized by numerous shutdowns of fish plants, loss of jobs, and essentially closing entire communities.
That, Mr. Speaker, to us on this side of the House is a very important and very difficult question. We thought at the time that the request under Standing Order 52 was appropriate and should be given due consideration.
Of course we realize that in using Standing Order 52, which is a complex Standing Order, the discretionary decision was yours and we abide by that all the time.
The difficulty yesterday was that the government, in its resistance to having VIA Rail discussed on a motion moved by my friend from Thunder Bay-Atikokan to concur in a standing committee report, had the same parliamentary secretary who a few minutes ago said that he would never infringe upon the rights of members of the House of Commons move a dilatory motion.
I put it to him that yesterday he did infringe upon the right of some members of the House of Commons to debate a very, very serious matter, not by his own will or by his own design, but nevertheless the rules are made that way. When he moved that we proceed to Orders of the Day, he thwarted every effort of this House to try to
Point of Order
discuss a very serious and deep concern of many Canadians about the fishing industry in the Atlantic provinces.
The arguments that I would like to put to you deal with Standing Order 52 pertaining to emergency debates. I do not want to read the whole section because it is quite extensive, but I want to ask that you consider Standing Order 52(15). I will read that clause which is the last clause of that Standing Order, because I think it is important. It reads this way:
The provisions of this Standing Order shall not be suspended by the operation of any other Standing Order relating to the hours of sitting or in respect of the consideration of any other business; provided that, in cases of conflict, the Speaker shall determine when such other business shall be considered or disposed of and the Speaker shall make any consequential interpretation of any Standing Order that may be necessary in relation thereto.
That, Mr. Speaker, is my point. Yesterday the government decided that in its judgment it did not want to proceed with debate on the motion moved by the member for Thunder Bay-Atikokan concerning VIA Rail. The government moved what I would call a dilatory motion. The government short-circuited the whole system. We did not get a chance to reach the point in Routine Proceedings that call for your decision upon an emergency debate asked for in good faith by the member for Beausejour. Therefore, today I thought you would call that item.
You have had the motion since January 18. There is nothing in the Standing Order which says that you had to call it yesterday or today. If something happens, within the rules, that prevents it from being called, we take it then that the Speaker will call it the following day. Now today we find that you did not call it.
I know you did not call it because I was told by the Table that we would have to retable or resubmit the letter. That to me is a bureaucratic decision which I cannot accept. Nothing in the Standing Order says that we must do that. Nothing in the Standing Order says that you must resubmit an emergency debate request.
An emergency debate is something that happens that day or happens that week or happens in that period. The emergency is still there. Why do we have to go through this rigmarole repeating the process of resubmitting a letter which calls for an emergency debate when indeed section 15 of Standing Order 52 gives it, in my judgment, authority to decide any interpretation of those rules.

January 23, 1990
Point of Order
I appeal to you, in the interest of parliamentary order and in the interest of getting this debate before the House, that you reconsider the decision not to go to Standing Order 52 today, as is called for in our Standing Orders on Routine Proceedings.
I would like to state in conclusion that my fear is that the government with its majority could at any time that it knows that there is an emergency and that there is likely to be a debate, because we sometimes advise the government that we are going to want to discuss a specific issue, could render this Standing Order absolutely useless when, during Routine Proceedings a member of the government has the floor and moves that we proceed to Government Orders. I find that a bit difficult to accept.
The government will use its majority to prevent debate on a very important question put to the House by a member of this House. In other words, any time the government wants to use its majority to thwart the process and avoid discussing an emergency, it could move that we proceed to Government Orders. In my view, that would not be in keeping with what I would call democratic process and I would object strongly to that procedure.
Therefore, I plead with you to reconsider the decision not to call motions under Standing Order 52 in Routine Proceedings as is normally done and to ask that the letter tabled by the member for Beausejour be considered today and a judgment made on his request for an emergency debate on the fisheries situation in the Atlantic provinces.


Mr. Speaker, I want to be very brief on this issue. I think it is an important issue. I think all members of the House would recognize that members have a right to raise an issue that they feel is an emergency requiring a special debate and I think we ought to keep in mind, too, we are just returning for a session of Parliament and in that spirit, I think we want to maintain as co-operative and friendly an atmosphere as we can.
I think we all appreciate the government's decision to call for a vote as a result of a concurrence motion yesterday. The government had two choices as I see it. One was to move that we proceed directly to Government Orders, which the government did. Another alternative would have simply been that the present debate now adjourn and we move back into Routine Proceedings.
We had some discussion, as a matter of fact, between myself and the parliamentary secretary and we recognized that these were two options. The government chose one. As a result of that action, we were not able to get to the point in Routine Proceedings where hon. members could raise their cases calling for emergency debates on the Rafferty-Alameda Dam environmental situation, the situation in Ethiopia and the crisis in the east coast fishery.
Rather than argue whether or not we can interpret Standing Order 52 in such a way that would permit us to raise those questions now, could we not simply agree unanimously in the spirit of co-operation that at this point we allow those members who have submitted letters indicating their intention to rise and make a case for an emergency debate to have an opportunity to do so and get on with the agenda and the business of the House.


I know that other hon. members may wish to rise. Perhaps I can keep them from going through extensive argument by commenting on the application.
First of all, this matter may be resolved very easily today. Because we have to make a decision about this quickly, I do not want to give an incautious response.
Without definitively saying what the rule calls for, we should remember we have on the floor of the House now notice of only one application. It is the custom of the Chair not to comment on any other applications that the Chair receives until the member filing the application actually rises in his or her place. I know hon. members will understand that. In view of the fact that both the hon. member for Ottawa-Vanier and the hon. member for Kamloops have indicated that there were a number of applications yesterday, I think I can refer to those applications as the applications that I received yesterday.
As it turned out, the government did move for Orders of the Day so it was not possible for me to rule on those applications. That could have been easily remedied perhaps without any need for argument if the applications had been refiled today.
January 23, 1990

In the event that there is some concern among members as to just exactly how this rule ought to be interpreted, I will go away and give it some consideration. In the meantime, it may be that as the hon. member for Kamloops has suggested that I deem the applications to be in front of me, I can only do that, of course, with the consent of the House.


Mr. Speaker, may I make a couple of points, the first one being that when I moved the motion yesterday, and I did move the motion that we move to Orders of the Day, it was not in any way my intention to cut off emergency debates. In all fairness, had the opposition advised me that they had made an application for such a debate, I am sure we would have been able to co-operate and to accommodate them in some fashion.
I want to say also, without in any way establishing a precedent, I have no problem and on our side we would be willing to accept the recommendation of my hon. friend from Kamloops, the House Leader of the NDP, in that those notices which were given yesterday, notice or notices, I am not sure what you are dealing with, being treated as though they were refiled again today, as long as that does not establish a precedent, and also does not in any way reflect on the government's opinion as to whether or not those particular issues in fact do represent an emergency.


The hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell may have a point that I have omitted, and I will hear him.


Mr. Speaker, I want to make just a brief point to add to something that has been said, to ask the Speaker to consider one other element when Mr. Speaker makes his definitive ruling on the interpretation of Standing Order 52 and it is the following.
My colleague, the hon. member for Ottawa-Vanier, has described to Mr. Speaker why he believes that indeed today or at the immediate opportunity on the next day, there should be no need to refile and I accept that point. I wanted to make one further point. I wonder if the Speaker could consider as well whether it would have been appropriate yesterday, as a matter of fact
Government Orders
immediately after the vote to move to Orders of the Day, to deal with the issue.
I say this for the following reason, Mr. Speaker. I am not saying it was the motivation this time, but any government could in the future, if the Speaker's ruling today remains unchallenged, utilize the procedure of moving to Orders of the Day in order to stop the opposition from proposing to Mr. Speaker that pursuant to Standing Order 52, we have an adjournment debate. In fact, the government may have developed this tool now by accident. I am not saying it will use it, but the precedent would nevertheless be there.
If the Speaker could consider that immediately after such a vote were taken, if there were a similar vote taken in the future to move to Orders of the Day, that that vote not prevent the Speaker from ruling immediately after on the application under Section 52. That is the point that I wanted to make.


I appreciate the comments of hon. members. I think we have an arrangement in the House, at least at the moment, and I will deem that the applications are in front of me and I will deal with them at three o'clock this afternoon.
I want to say to hon. members that whatever remarks I have said or any remarks that anybody else has said here today do not stand as any kind of a precedent. I will consider the issue and come back to it. But I think it is fair to comment, and especially for the public watching, that if this were a skilful ploy, the House Leader has made it very clear today that he is not proceeding with that intent. I think the public should know that this matter at least for today has been resolved by agreement between the parties and I thank the hon. member for Kamloops for his suggestion.


The House resumed from Monday, January 22, consideration of the motion of Mr. Wilson (Etobicoke Centre) that Bill C-52, an Act to amend the Income lax Act and related Acts, be read the second time and referred to a legislative committee.
January 23, 1990
Government Orders
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to have a chance to participate in the debate on Bill C-52.11 suppose when you are looking at legislation and who benefits from the legislation you should send a very clear message. Those people whose incomes are in excess of $85,000 a year and those people who have $10,000, $12,000 or $15,000 cash at the end of the year to set aside for whatever reason ought to be very happy with this government at this point because this legislation is tailored for all of those people whose incomes are in excess of $85,000 or those people who have $10,000 to $15,000 cash lying around at the end of the year to invest in some way.
We are talking about a very select group of Canadians. This legislation is aimed at probably less than 1 per cent of Canadians. The government plans that in its concerns with everything happening in Canada, we now should spend some weeks in the House of Commons debating how to assist those in the upper-income brackets whose incomes are $85,000 and more.
This is occurring at a time when in excess of 1 million people are living in poverty and nearly 1 million people are jobless. There is also an unquestionable crisis in Atlantic Canada and a farm bankruptcy crisis throughout the whole country, particularly in western Canada. There is also a collapsing west coast fishing industry and there are plant closures in all parts of the country, particularly in the industrial heartland of Canada.
In spite of all these issues that are crucial, which in some cases we have all agreed are actually in a crisis situation, the government says it wants to spend some time and help those people who need special assistance, those whose incomes are in excess of $85,000 per year. It reminds us of what the Conservative government's agenda is all about.
We do not spend any time talking about the forest industry. With all due respect to my friend, the minister of forests, who is in the House today and is very concerned about forestry, his cabinet colleagues may not share his same devotion and interest. Do we talk about forestry and the concerns of forestry? No. Do we talk about the concerns of the mining industry? No. Do we talk about the crisis in agriculture? No. Do we talk about the crisis in our export trade? No. Do we talk about the plight being faced by native peoples? No.
We do not talk about the issues facing this country. We are going to talk about assisting those people whose incomes are in excess of $85,000 a year, as if they needed any help. This is absolutely incredible and very embarrassing. I do not know how there are any government members sitting here today who are not just running out and having a cup of coffee to get of here so they do not have to listen to this. How can they seriously proceed here knowing what is going on? Let me get into some details.
Let me first make a slight comment about this legislation that is going to assist the wealthy in the country.
In 1982, the Liberal government carried out a task force on pension reform. It was very critical, very important and was done very seriously. It went across the country, had input and came up with a reasonable report, up to a point. We had to submit, of course, a usual minority statement because there were many parts of it that we did not agree with. The one part we did not agree with most emphatically is what we are dealing with today.
The report suggested that the government introduce legislation as it has done today. But the government has switched from being Liberals to Tories.
In the budget of 1984 introduced by the finance minister of the day, Marc Lalonde, he introduced legislation at that time which is exactly the same as the legislation we are debating today. Perhaps the Liberal mindset has changed since 1984. Perhaps the Liberal view of pension reform has changed. When listening to some of the speeches yesterday, that is one conclusion that I must draw. I can draw others but let us forget that. It is history now. It looks like the Liberals have changed their tune and are also now concerned with what this is going to do in terms of being unprogressive legislation in this country.
This is an appropriate time to deal with so-called pension reform because we all recognize that the population of Canada is aging, that there are problems in terms of people having adequate incomes in their retirement years. We recognize that many senior citizens in this country find themselves living in poverty, in many cases very serious situations of poverty, particularly elderly single women of which there are literally hundreds of thousands living in poverty. Yet this legisla-
January 23, 1990

tion does absolutely nothing that is going to be of any help, assistance or encouragement to those people.
If you are a wealthy senior citizen, or a wealthy person who will soon retire, this is great news because this bill is going to help the wealthiest in Canada at the expense of the poorest. This is dastardly legislation when you consider that fact. Not only is it going to help those who are very wealthy, it is going to harm those who are at the lower end of the income scale.
Let me be specific. By 1995, when the full force of this legislation will be in effect, those people whose incomes are $86,000 will get a tax benefit of $15,000 and a cash benefit of about $7,500. That is a super deal, using the tax system to avoid paying taxes. Of course, when the wealthy do not pay their fair share, we know who has to pay more than their fair share and it is the average working people in this country, once again.
This becomes interesting. Today, if your income is $20,000, you can contribute up to $4,000 to a registered retirement savings plan. However, when this legislation takes effect, by 1995, if you are earning $20,000, you cannot contribute $4,000 into the RRSP, you can only contribute $3,600. This means that those people at the lower end of the income spectrum will be receiving less benefits than they do today and those fortunate folks at the upper income levels will be receiving a much greater benefit than they do today under the present legislation. It just adds to the old theme, the rich get much richer under the Conservative government, and the poor and the middle class gets squeezed once again.
How often do we get squeezed? There is a lot of talk today about this goods and services tax that is going to literally rip the life out of a good part of the country and a good part of Canadians. The other day I went through the list of all the federal tax increases. In the last 12 months the Conservative Government of Canada has increased taxes in 31 different areas, to say nothing about the big goods and services hammer that is about to fall. In 12 months they found 31 different areas where they have raised federal taxes.
That is the theme, but now they say that somebody has to get a tax break in this country. Someone has to get some benefit from the Conservatives being in office.
Government Orders
Someone has to get a tax benefit, and who is that going to be? Is it the poor and the lower income people? No. Is it the middle income earner? No. Is it the very wealthy? Ah! That's it, the very wealthy in Canada are going to get a real tax bonanza as a result of this.
This really has nothing to do with pension reform. This has more to do with the Conservative tax reform package because this is all about allowing upper income earners, if you like, to avoid paying income tax. It has nothing to do with helping people with pensions.
If we were serious about helping people with their pensions, we would have introduced legislation that would assist the portability aspect of pensions. Does this legislation have anything to do with pension portability in this country? No, it does not. Does this legislation have anything to do with the fact that 90 per cent of the private pension plans have no indexation built into them? No, it has nothing to do with that.
Does this have anything to do with homemakers' pensions? No, it has nothing to do with tha