The House resumed from Monday, February 5, consideration of the motion of Mr. Keyes:
That, in the opinion of this House, the government should
consider the advisability of reinstating funding for the Canadian
Centre for Occupational Health and Safety.
["Mr. Speaker, this week, the town of Cap-de-la-Madeleine is hosting the 35th Canadian Policemen's Curling Championship. This will be an opportunity for all participants to get to know each other and develop strong ties that will remain, beyond the barriers of distance and language.\nI would like to take this opportunity to stress the magnificent job being done by police officer Raymond Rochefort and his team of volunteers, who during the last two years have worked so hard to make this event a great success. We had some indication of this at the official opening which took place at the Jean-Guy Talbot arena yesterday afternoon.\nI also would like to mention the town council of Cap-de-la-Madeleine which went all out to support Raymond Rochefort's team in every way.\nThe Canadian Policemen's Curling Championship is so successful thanks to the determination of all those who believed that making this event a success was the best way to show all Canadian provinces that the people of Cap-de-la-Madeleine know how to organize and get things done.\nOnce again, our congratulations to Raymond Rochefort and his team, and many thanks to all those who trusted Cap-de-la-Madeleine to organize this first-class event."]
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support the motion put forward by my hon. colleague for Hamilton West which impresses upon this House the need to reinstate funding for the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety.
We know the centre was established in 1978 under statute which set up a tripartite board of governors to administer this institution. It gave equal representation to employers, employees and government.
There are certain areas of concern in this country in which I believe government must be involved. For instance, I believe that transportation is such an area considering the size and diversity of this country. There is the health and safety of workers as well as employers in the workplace.
Just like transportation, justice or the environment, to name but a few, health and safety in the workplace is an issue which affects millions of Canadians often in ways which are for the most part beyond their direct control.
Governments have an absolutely fundamental responsibility to do everything within their power to ensure that
Canadians in the workplace are safe and healthy. That is the basic principle which we are discussing today.
With respect to this responsibility the federal government in 1978 established the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety. While the government has a responsiblity to make places like the centre possible, it is nonetheless crucial that the source of health and safety information be completely impartial. The relationship between the centre and its funding must remain at arm's length at the very least.
The information which is given out by the centre may very well cause problems for employers, including the government itself. I can appreciate that. But no one can deny that workers deserve all the protection that we can give them. An independent, fully-funded centre is the best way of achieving this impartiality. The bottom line is that the workers must be protected.
As we look at various aspects of safety and health hazards in the workplace, we see that it is governments themselves which in many cases are at the root of many of the problems. Some of the worst abusers of the system, and some of the most skilful at sweeping things under the rug are governments, either municipal, provincial or federal. The fact remains that since governments should not have as their bottom line a profit motive, they are the best source of funds for centres like the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety.
I do not believe that this is the reason that the government wants to abandon its responsibility to fund the centre. I do believe that this government is not as sincere about its concern for worker health and safety as we would like it to be, or as it would present itself to be.
As we see from its agenda for the economy and for the areas of social welfare, the government tends to dance to the tune of big business. There is no doubt that when it comes to health and safety of workers, be it in the mines, mills or in any of the industrial areas, big business certainly has not led the way in health and safety. Their bottom line is profit, not people. That is unfortunate but true.

March 19, 1990
Private Members' Business
The leaders in workplace safety have always been the workers. If we go back to the late 19th, or the early 20th century, we see that the big issue of the day in the mines in Canada, the United States and around the world was safety. Unfortunately, for many reasons, health was not yet the prime concern of workers. The causes of disease in general were only beginning to be explored and understood by the medical establishment, much less by the workers.
The result of that can be seen in the number of miners today and years ago when miners suffered from that terrible disease known as black lung. The main concern was safety, because workers realized that every day they were going down into the pits, the coal mines and the gold mines, they were incredibly dangerous places to go. We all know there were many long drawn out battles and strikes like those led by the then famous John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers, just to achieve some measure of safety and to get safety features written into the contracts.
The triumphs of these workers are prized today throughout Canada and around the world. Now, and in the last few years, health has become a very prominent issue, as it should be. Health is of major concern because there are so many chemicals and so many situations out there that affect the workers today, whether in buildings-a big problem being these sick buildings that we hear about-or whether underground in the mines, or in the mills or in the plants. All kinds of chemicals, dusts and fumes pervade the workplace. Over the years they have, in many cases, adversely affected the health and safety of the lives of workers. We see it with asbestos and with other agents that have been used throughout the years.
Time has shown that these agents are not the miracles that we believed them to be, that the price for the convenience and profit they provide have been too high. Canadians are increasingly aware of the damage we do to ourselves and to our environment.
I am quite aware of what the government intends to do to this centre. It wants to operate it much like a retail business where you buy your information. To that extent, of course, it has already been done at the centre as some information is available on disks for which there is a charge in order to generate revenue. If the source of
health and safety information is to remain impartial, effective and accessible to all, then it must have adequate funding. If the government eliminates its funding the centre will have to look elsewhere.
Certainly, the workers cannot contribute the sums of money that are going to be required to maintain this organization because, as we know, they simply do not have the money. As the Canadian Labour Congress says, it cannot afford to contribute to the centre's funds because the funding would have to be continually indexed to maintain the level that is required and such organizations are not in a position to keep up with this, nor are private individuals.
The centre must not have to depend on money from big business for its survival because, if it does that, then it is to some extent beholden to them, and they simply cannot be trusted to place health and safety above all other priorities.
I believe that if this centre is to survive, if it is to maintain its world-wide reputation as an accessible, effective information centre, then it absolutely requires continued government presence and continued government funding. A basic foundation of the centre's mandate stipulated in statute was that the information would be accessible to any individual in Canada or, indeed, around the world. To ensure this continued funding is essential.
As I explained, another basic principle of the centre is that it be impartial. Therefore, the only realistic funding option is the federal government, public money, because the centre exists for public good.
I believe that the government has an absolute obligation to continue its presence and its funding to this centre. A withdrawal of regular funding amounts to nothing less than privatization of this institution.
As I stated, the centre exists for the public good. It must continue to do so. There are some things that must not carry a price-tag. There are some things which must not fall victim to the government's mania for privatization. One of these is the health and safety of Canadian workers.
I think that the government must be feeling a little bit guilty because it has promised to extend the centre's line of credit of $11.6 million until it becomes self-sufficient. Such a gesture by no means absolves the government. Its
March 19, 1990

bottom line is not supposed to be profit, it is supposed to be the welfare of the Canadian people.
I have no doubt that if the centre were to try to generate all its revenues, then it would not remain open very long because its effectiveness, its credibility and its accessibility would decline sharply. Quality of service does not come cheap, and whatever quality of service would be offered the centre would in many cases be too expensive.
I believe that the plan put forth by government will see a decline in the reliability and the accessibility of the centre through no fault of the people who work there. It is a fact that when the main preoccupation becomes financial survival then other priorities lessen in importance.
The Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety has an excellent world-wide reputation as a one-of-a-kind source for vital information. To abandon this successful and admirable centre would be tragic and short-sighted.
Therefore, I support the motion put forward by my colleague from Hamilton West. I realize this is a free enterprise government, that its dream is a completely market-run economy, but such a concept violates basic Canadian values. One of those values is that the government must play a role in certain areas of public concern. One very important area is occupational health and safety. Every Canadian should have complete access to this information, and that principle cannot be denied.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to be participating in this debate, although I wish the reasons for it had never come about, namely, because of the decision of the government to privatize, to make self-sustaining, whatever the term it wants to use, in a sense to ditch from the duties of the government and the public the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety.
The Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety was established in 1978 as a public corporation by the Parliament of Canada with the passing of the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety Act. The centre was set up as an independent body, reporting directly to Parliament through the Ministry of Labour.
Private Members' Business
A tripartite council of governors consisting of representatives from labour, employers and government was established to govern the centre. The enactment of this founding statute enjoyed all-party support, including the full support of the Conservative party.
It is important in commencing my remarks to touch on the objects of the centre. As set out by statute they are: (a) to promote health and safety in the workplace in Canada, and the physical and mental health of working people in Canada; (b) to facilitate (1) consultation and co-operation amongst federal, provincial and territorial jurisdictions, and (2) participation by labour and management in the establishment and maintenance of high standards of occupational health and safety appropriate to the Canadian situation; (c) to assist in the development and maintenance of policies and programs aimed at the reduction or elimination of occupational hazards; and (d) to serve as a national centre for statistics and other information relating to occupational health and safety.
These objects underline the fundamental principle upon which the centre was based. This principle is the right of access for all Canadians to information that they need to achieve their fundamental right to a healthy and safe working environment. All of this is now at risk due to the government's decision to cut the centre adrift.
Before commenting further on our attitude and response to the business plan which the Minister of Labour approved on March 7, the new guidelines for the operation of the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety, I think is is worth-while to note just what is at risk out there in the Canadian population. Every year, year in and year out, close to 1,000 Canadians will die as a result of occupational hazards. Some
20,000	will become permanently disabled, and hundreds of thousands of others will suffer illness or injury due to any one of a number of reasons related to their work. The direct cost of death and injury in the Canadian workplace was $3.54 billion in 1987. Those were the costs, both in human suffering and financially.
We believe that it is a grave error-worse than that, it is a major injustice-for the government to set adrift this centre which was vitally needed in 1978 to protect working Canadians. It is just as vitally necessary today.

March 19, 1990
Private Members' Business
As I said, on March 7, the Minister of Labour approved the business plan which, under the government's direction and with some hesitation on the part of the council of the centre, was drafted by the centre's council under duress and with a change of directors in the process.
In his statement of approval of that business plan, the minister said: "The government is deeply committed to the vital role played by the CCOEIS in improving the safety of workplaces in Canada, and in protecting the health of Canadian workers".
No one in this Parliament, regardless of party, wishes harm to come to any Canadian. However, the likely result of the privatizing of this institution may lead to its breakup because one of the basic reasons for the tripartite council and the institution's credibility will be gone when it adopts as one of its prime functions the making of a profit or breaking even rather than providing a legitimate health service to Canadians. We doubt that the survival of the centre and the survival of its obligation to Canadian workers will survive this change in its status.
I would just like to comment briefly on the business plan. The overwhelming focus of the business plan is the commercialization of CCOHS through the sale, primarily to employers, of products, and the privatization of CCOHS by the termination of public funding. There are no proposals to use profits, to restore or expand the free health and safety information service that the centre offers to workers and the public. If this were in fact to be done there is a case for saying that the size and the impartiality of the nonelectronic part of its free information service could be maintained.
Second, the centre has built its reputation largely through providing high quality information on occupational health concerns, but the focus of the centre is now to be on safety issues with a mind to the cost of accidents to employers and workers compensation boards.
As someone who has had a fairly lengthy history of occupational health and safety on the job, one of the chronic problems in the past in Canada has been this emphasis on safety in the workplace as opposed to health in the workplace. It is only in fairly recent years that we have given appropriate attention to the health hazards that exist and the need to attempt to stop the problem at
source instead of adopting programs, whether they be educational or anything else, that attempt to change the focus away from a safe workplace, suggesting that the problem is with the worker or with the employee.
Placing that kind of guilt trip is the kind of path that has been pursued by inspection services and compensation boards across Canada for many years. It is only in this last 10 years or so that we have begun to shift the focus on to where it primarily should be, that is, on having a safe and healthy workplace as opposed to putting the guilt trip on the individual worker.
I just want to give a couple of examples of that from a few years ago in British Columbia, what I like to call the bad old days, which is an odd way of putting it. We had one publication put out by the Workers Compensation Board in British Columbia that was just full of ideas for parades, prizes and safety contests. I can remember the quote: "the blowing of horns, the tooting of whistles" for community extravaganzas to draw attention to the area of safety and health.
One of the recommendations in that particular brochure, and I have seen similar things in other jurisdictions in Canada, was that a safety contest at sawmills should be to hide $1 bills-with the rate of inflation they should be $10 bills now-underneath boards that were left lying around in the sawmill yard for people to trip over. If you were smart enough to go and pick the board up, you would get this prize of a $10 bill that was hidden underneath it because you should not leave boards lying around because people trip over them and get hurt.
That is the kind of crazy attitude that we had to health and safety in the workplace in Canada for years and years. I am afraid that the privatization of this centre is going to be a signal to Canadian workers that we are turning back the clock once again. What we are asking the centre to do is to sell a product that it does not own, which is information on workplace hazards that has only recently been accumulated. There are signed agreements with NIOSH and other international centres of health information that may be broken in this process. If our source for the product dries up, we will have nothing left to sell.
This is a retrograde step by the government. It will be harmful to the health of Canadian workers. I hope beyond hope that the government will change its mind, recognize reality and renew its commitment-the com-
March 19, 1990

mitment of all of us-to the health and safety of Canadian workers.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to enter this debate on the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety. The position of the government for all the time we have been in government has been to attack the deficit. We do much of that through control of our spending, reducing the burden of our public debt on the people of Canada. There is probably no other topic that is more constantly brought to my attention in my riding.
To achieve this objective, the government is determined to sustain its drive toward improved management of expenditures. This requires not only that all departments realign and reduce their expenditures, but also that all sectors of the economy take part in this national effort.
In 1989, respecting the Centre for Occupational Health and Safety, the cabinet decided to reflect the policy of fiscal restraint and expenditure cuts to combat the rapidly escalating national debt. The cutbacks in expenditures were directed on a priority basis at the government's own programs. Indeed, we have been remarkably successful in this. Our programs have been growing at the rate of something like 3.6 per cent per year, not like some of the other governments in Canada which have been growing at two and three times this level. In mid-December, because of increased financial pressures on the economy, the government announced further cutbacks on department and agency expenditures amounting to $1 billion.
There are two principal elements of labour-management relations to achieve these economic objectives. The first element is partnership, which I believe to be the key to both economic and social development in Canada. Harmonious relations between all the partners-governments, employers and labour-to reconcile the often divergent interests is vital to the success of any initiative.
I have used the term "partner" deliberately. This is true of many other things that we do in government. An example of this would be the Workplace Hazardous Materials Information Service which provides a pan-Ca-
Private Members' Business
nadian standard for the pro-active disclosure of hazard information about materials used in Canadian workplaces. This is a prime example of effective partnership.
The consensus building and co-operation exhibited by all the partners resulted in WHMIS, an information system that is the most advanced of its kind in the world. Indeed, the unique and distinctly Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety itself was created in 1978 by an act of Parliament. As we have heard from the member for Kootenay West-Revelstoke, it has resulted in co-operation and collaboration between governments, associations of employers, workers and occupational health and safety professionals.
Speaking after the hon. member for Kootenay West- Revelstoke is indeed difficult, because he, in his own right, is an expert in the matter of labour. He knows the problems and the dangers in the workplace. He also recognizes that all of us in Parliament are deeply concerned with the workers of Canada that their health be maintained.
The member and I differ in another regard very basically. He does not believe private enterprise can do a job. He believes that government-funded agencies are the only way to deliver services, and I believe that private enterprise is more efficient. I believe that private enterprise is not complacent and that people who do in fact pay for information probably value that information better.
The new technologies coupled with the specialty field of health and safety, the environment and other related fields are all areas where progress demands a change in work attitudes. Organizations and methods are the second element. The government, together with its partners, is constantly on the look-out for new approaches that can be used to make the workplace safer for Canadians.
The rate of scientific change and technological change, the very speed at which things change, has been constantly increasing and challenging all occupational health and safety professionals to improve preventive measures. We know that the future health and safety of all workers largely depends on the ability of all nations to share knowledge, to recognize new potential dangers, to find

March 19, 1990
Private Members' Business
immediate solutions and to ensure the implementation of appropriate preventative measures.
Since 1978 the centre has assumed the role of a national information resource which gathers, evaluates, and distributes occupational health and safety information to workers, unions, management, governments, other professionals and the public also receive this information. These information services have been provided at no cost, or on a minimal cost recovery basis.
The 1989 cabinet decision on the budget was that the centre should become financially more self-sufficient over the next three years for the information services provided to the users of the centre. This decision was based on the fiscal restraints confronting the government but also on the basis of the apparent financial maturity of the centre. Since 1978, the government has helped the centre with about $67 million in operating costs and approximately $2 million per year for other costs.
Since a few years ago, the centre has been recovering some of the costs of producing its information products. The 1989 decision meant that the centre should broaden its base of cost recovery. The costs are those associated with the costs of packaging and distributing these information products that are meant to be recovered, not the costs of the information itself.
The cuts in federal program expenditures are being applied to departments and agencies of the government delivering important services to Canadians. Some of these departmental programs like that of the centre are providing vital information and statistics to both the private and public sector. For instance, Statistics Canada is delivering its information services to its various clients on a cost recovery basis. Why then should the centre on Occupational Health and Safety, which is separate and distinct from government, albeit a federal agency, which has been principally funded by the federal government, be exempted from the general fiscal restraint and government policies on cost recovery?
The centre has demonstrated that it is capable of recovering some of its costs of producing its services. At
the same time, it is an enviable market position of having a high quality product which is obviously in demand in a market that can be further exploited.
Cost recovery is not a new principle, nor is it confined to the federal government. It is a matter of good business practice within the public sector. For example, some provincial Workers Compensation Boards charge employers directly through sectoral assessment for the cost of providing workplace accident and injury prevention programs. Other compensation boards directly fund their preventive educational programs through moneys recovered through direct assessment of employers.
I would like to remind the members of the House that the decision to charge for the packaging and handling of the products of the centre was not made initially by the government, but rather, by The Council of Governors over two years ago. The Council of Governors decided at that time to charge for the packaging and handling of the discs, but not to charge for single copies of the other information products of the centre.
The application of this principle seems to be fair and reasonable. Broadening its application to other products of the centre is not unreasonable. Cost recovery is not a new principle. It is the policy of this government and of preceding governments to charge for and recover the costs of producing items of information. The principle of charging a nominal amount for this information is not new, it has been around for ages.
For example, Public Works Canada charges other departments equivalent market rates for accommodation services. Similarly, the Department of Supply and Services provides material and equipment purchasing services for other departments on a cost recovery basis. Statistics Canada charges for the data, information and publications that it produces and provides to both public and private sectors. The Government Publishing Centre, the Queen's Printer, of the Department of Supply and Services operates on a cost recovery basis.
I note that my time is coming to an end. I repeat what I said earlier today, that I believe private enterprise is a solution, in many cases, for government distribution of services. Under private enterprise, there is less complacency, more attempt at efficiency, and the people who

buy the product are indeed more satisfied and want that product rather than the products that arrive at the door free of charge.
I appreciate the opportunity to speak on the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety.


Mr. Speaker, occupational health and safety are vital issues in Canada. Occupational death is the third leading cause of mortality among Canadians, after heart disease and cancer. Hence, I am pleased to speak in favour of the private member's bill of my hon. colleague from Hamilton West which states:
That, in the opinion of this House, the government should consider
the advisability of reinstating funding for the Canadian Centre for
Occupational Health and Safety.
The centre is the largest Canadian information bank and research centre on work hazards and disease.
The motion by my colleague is in response to this government's decision to reduce federal funding to the centre by 50 per cent by the year 1990-1991 and to totally cut funding by April, 1991. This government, in partial response to criticisms, decided this month to grant the centre $11.6 million to help it become financially selfsufficient in the next three years. This suggests that the government intends to privatize it at the end of these three years.
Established in 1978 as a public corporation by the Parliament of Canada, the centre is an independent tripartite council of governors from labour, employers and government. Its objectives are fourfold:
(1)	to promote health and safety in the workplace in Canada;
(2)	to facilitate participation by labour and management in the establishment and maintenance of high standards of occupational health and safety at all levels of government;
(3)	to assist in the development and maintenance of policies and programs aimed at reducing or eliminating occupational hazards; and
(4)	to serve as a national centre for statistics and other information relating to occupational health and safety.
Indeed, the centre has operated on the principle that it is the right of all Canadians to have access to information
Private Members' Business
that they need to achieve their fundamental right to health and safety in the working environment. It is this principle that would be violated by this government's decision to privatize the centre.
I would now like to discuss some of the statements that have been made in the government-directed draft business plan for the centre.
First, under the mission and objective section of the draft business plan for the centre, it is stated: "The centre must become a commercial organization while operating under its basic mandate of serving workers." The plan also states that it is premature at this stage to state that the trend will be towards financial self-sufficiency and independence.
It is obvious that profit-seeking will take priority over serving workers under the proposed business plan, and this will jeopardize the fundamental principle of the centre, namely, that all Canadians have a right to access to information to achieve a healthy and safe working environment. Obviously, this government is not caring enough to continue promoting this essential right.
In the business plan, it also states: "It was not possible to conduct the kind of detailed market research and implementation planning necessary to develop a business plan that represents a firm commitment. Despite this, it has been concluded in this plan that financial self-sufficiency for the centre is entirely feasible."
This is an admission that this conclusion has been made without sufficient information and evidence. This is unacceptable. It makes a complete farce of the task force's promise of free access for individual Canadians to the centre's important health and safety information.
The third and last point in the business plan that I would like to comment on relates to the principles that govern tri-sectoral sharing in the centre's decision-making. I submit they ought to be continually recognized.
Although the business plan attempts to say that the principles will be recognized, if labour pulls out of the governing council because it believes the centre would no longer be an unbiased, impartial organization and instead, would merely be another business enterprise, then the commitment to tri-sectoral participation will collapse.

March 19, 1990
Private Members' Business
When it becomes a business enterprise, the centre will charge user fees which will have a strong negative impact on small employers with limited financial resources.
The government, in its arguments for privatization of the centre, has stated that it would save $10 million a year by cutting off funding to the centre. Is this good money management? Let me cite a few frightening statistics.
The Workers' Compensation Board stated that the direct cost of compensable injuries in 1987 was $3.54 billion. This only includes money spent to compensate workers or their survivors for injuries or deaths caused by workplace accidents and industrial diseases. Not included are productivity losses associated with accidents or diseases contracted in the workplace.
Estimates by Labour Canada put the total cost of direct compensation payments and direct productivity losses at $14 billion per year. This still does not include industrial diseases whose costs are incurred by medicare and welfare plans.
Such statistics are astounding. How much more will they be when the centre is no longer able to perform its current functions?
Mr. David Leitch, a lawyer and director of the Toronto Workers' Health and Safety Legal Clinic, said in The Globe and Mail of October 16, 1989: "Recognizing only the direct cost of workplace accidents and disease and assuming that the centre reduces the rate of workplace accidents by only one per cent per year, the direct savings contributed by the centre would be more than three times its $10 million annual budget."
Mr. Speaker, I ask, is the plan of the government good money management?
In conclusion, it is obvious that the withdrawal of government funding from the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety will not help reduce the deficit or our health care costs. Indeed, it will increase them. Cuts to the centre will lead to more on-the-job injuries and work disruptions. It is only too clear that this government puts its obsession with deficit reduction ahead of the health and safety of Canadians. This in itself is objectionable. What adds insult to injury is that by cutting funds to the centre and, hence, threatening the health of Canadian workers, the government will not
be saving money. This lack of logic on the part of the government is truly frightening.
Hence, I support this motion. The government must not abdicate its responsibility to occupational health and safety and thereby endanger the well being of our Canadian workforce. The government cannot afford to do it. This House must show leadership and tell the government it cannot proceed.


Mr. Speaker, the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety was created through partnership and as an expression of co-operation between labour, employers, governments and health and safety professionals, not only to minimize the pain and suffering caused by work related injury, illness, disability and death of Canadian workers, but also to reduce the economic losses to Canadian society.
During the first 12 years of its operations, the funds provided to the centre by the federal government amounted to some $67 million. During the first six years from 1978 to 1984, the centre received an average of some $3 million per year from the government. During the last six years, from 1984 to the present time, the support has been in the area of approximately $50 million or about $8 million per year. This surely demonstrates the government's concern for the health and safety of Canadian workers.
In addition to the direct financial support the centre has received since 1978, the government has also indirectly contributed through costs of services such as accommodation and translation.
Unfortunately, the national debt and the difficulties in servicing it have resulted in constraints upon this government. It is not good enough for those opposite to speak in terms of the health and safety of Canadians being threatened in regard to any decisions relating to this centre. The fact is that the health and safety of Canadians in future depends very much on deficit reduction, because if the government of the day is not financially responsible, there will certainly be insufficient funds left in the future to maintain any sort of services for Canadian people.
In the spring of 1989, the cabinet decided, because of fiscal restraints and the apparent financial maturity of the CCOHS, that the centre should progressively become financially self-sufficient over the next three years, in so far as the information services provided to its users. This would make the centre independent of funding support from the one partner, through increasing its

revenues and by recovering more of the costs of producing the products of the centre from those who use it, that is, all of the partners.
The government's decision on funding is simply that the centre has been asked to broaden its cost recovery policy which it started to implement over three years ago. This decision to recover some of the costs of the centre's products was made by the centre's Council of Governors and not by this government.
In May, 1989, the minister requested that the president of the centre, in consultation with the governing council, develop and submit a business plan to him by the fall of 1989, in order to meet the government's decision on funding. The minister also met with representatives of the centre's Council of Governors to discuss the Treasury Board decision and the requested business plan.
The business plan for the centre's operations was developed by a task force of governors of the centre, with the assistance of Price Waterhouse, management consultants. This plan was presented to the council in January of this year. It was submitted to the minister in February of this year. The business plan reinforces the cabinet's decision and concludes that financial self-sufficiency for the centre is entirely feasible.
The business plan strategy focuses on information products and services that can be delivered through compact disc technology. It suggests development of existing and new markets for existing products. It concentrates on marketing safety related products, and bundles services into packages where possible. It recommends marketing them through existing marketing channels and special arrangements with other organizations and associations.
The key challenge facing the CCOHS will be to meet the challenge of becoming a self-sufficient organization while operating under the basic mandate of serving Canadian workers.
The balancing of these two demanding objectives, while at the same time maintaining the stability of the organization and the conformity of its services through the period of adjustment, will be a challenging task for the management of the centre.
Private Members' Business
It is understandable, Mr. Speaker, that the sequence of events over the past year have imposed some anxiety upon the staff of the CCOHS and engendered uncertainty about their future. That is why earlier this month the Minister of Labour announced that the Government of Canada would provide interim bridge financing for the centre in order to assist it in becoming financially self-sufficient in the next three years, as proposed in the centre's business plan.
It is the government's intention that the centre will continue its role of providing valuable information to all Canadians on matters of occupational safety and health. The government's decision, again, is simply that the centre should recover more of its cost in packaging and distributing the information products of the CCOHS.
The need for greater devolution of responsibility and accountability and increased efficiency within government agencies is higher now than every before. As part of this government's commitment to financial restraint, it has decided it is no longer possible for the government to be the sole financial supporter of the CCOHS. Accordingly, it is the intention of the government that the CCOHS will continue as a financially viable and useful source of unbiased information on occupational health and safety matters in Canada.
The government's funding decision on the centre is not an attempt to privatize it, which would destroy this unique tripartite partnership and the unbiased nature of the products of the CCOHS. The decision is simply and only to make the CCOHS more financially self-supporting by recovering more of the costs of producing its products.
The reason for this thrust and, indeed, that of many others put forward by this government over the past almost six years is to address the difficulties that were left to it. There is a national debt in the area of some $200 billion and a requirement to find the wherewithal not only to pay for the services and operations of the departments of government, but also to pay interest on the accumulated past debt. This requirement has now reached the area where some 30 cents to 35 cents of every revenue dollar acquired by government has to go to pay interest on that past debt that was acquired over roughly the period from 1970 through 1984-85.

March 19, 1990
Private Members' Business
The need to deal with this debt and deficit problem has become the most compelling factor on the national scene. If the problem is left unaddressed and without sufficient attention being paid to it, we shall soon reach the position where so much of the revenue of government will be required to pay interest on that past debt, there will virtually be nothing left to carry on the essential services that Canadians expect of their government.
It is against that difficult background that the Department of Labour, and indeed all of the departments of government, have to operate today. That is why it is necessary to ensure that some of the services which are put out in fact have to become financially self-sufficient.
In closing, I want to reassure the House that the funding of the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety reflects these philosophies and will not result in the closing of the centre. The changes merely reflect this government's belief that the CCOHS is now a viable enterprise, capable of becoming more self-sufficient financially. This opinion has now been supported by the Council of Governors itself in their business plan for the centre.


Mr. Speaker, it gives me great pleasure to support my colleague from Hamilton West who sits in the opposition on this side of the House who has moved the following motion:
That, in the opinion of this House, the government should
consider the advisability of reinstating funding for the Canadian
Centre for Occupational Health and Safety.

When the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety was founded approximately 10 years ago, its primary purpose was to serve workers and the general public by informing them of potential hazards in their respective workplaces. It was supposed to warn workers and help them avoid, as much as possible, unfortunate accidents that might also put their lives at risk.
As a result, the federal governments been annually saved millions of dollars which would otherwise have been spent on hospital care.
Every year, work-related accidents involve direct and indirect costs totalling $17.7 billion, and the government is fully aware of this. Furthermore, we must not forget that accidents in the workplace are the third major cause of death in Canada, after heart disease and cancer.
The government wants to make the centre an autonomous, fee-for-service agency.
Mr. Speaker, I predict that if this is done, the centre will close very shortly.
In its frenzy of cutbacks in all areas that come under its jurisdiction, the government does not seem to realize the long-term consequences of its actions. To operate on a profit basis is entirely acceptable. In fact, it is the way any organization should operate. The problem with putting the centre on a commercial basis is that it would doom the centre to disappear, because it was not meant to operate this way, and the organizations with which it has reciprocal agreements and exchanges of information free of charge would be reluctant to continue this relationship.
Obviously, foreign governments, various United Nations programs and international labour organizations involved in the same type of work as the Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety will seriously consider withdrawing their support from an agency that sells the information it obtains free of charge, especially since the information was obtained by non-profit organizations.
The Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety must continue to be subsidized by the government, otherwise it may very well close down or eventually be privatized, which amounts to the same thing. If fees are charged, services will be more readily available to those who can pay for them than to the persons for whom the centre was in fact founded, the workers, who will then be cut off from information they desperately need.
The Canadian government must ensure that all Canadian workers have access, free of charge, to any information relating to occupational health and safety.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to take part in the debate on this motion this afternoon. I think it is important for everyone to realize that this centre was established by an act of Parliament in
March 19, 1990

1978 and that the objective of the centre is to gather, evaluate and disseminate occupational health and safety information to Canadian workers.
In putting forward a business plan for the future of this centre, it is certainly not the intent of the government or any other of the partners involved in this centre to weaken its future. Quite the contrary, it is the intent and certainly the concern of the government that this centre have a very positive future and have a sound financial basis from which to operate.
Mr. Speaker, you will be aware that for many of the services of government and partners of government, there has been an action by the federal government to try to make a number of these services more self-sufficient, to increase cost recovery, and certainly the action here is not out of line with many other actions that have been taken on other government services. It is important that we realize that and concentrate on firming up the future of this centre in a self-sufficient manner.
Therefore, a business plan for this centre's operations has been developed by a task force of governors of the centre with the assistance of Price Waterhouse, management consultants. The plan was presented to the council on January 23, 1990 at a meeting in Hamilton and was submitted to the minister in February. The business plan reinforces the cabinet's decision and concludes that financial self-sufficiency for the centre is entirely feasible.
The key problem facing the centre will be to meet the challenge of becoming self-sufficient in the future while operating under the basic mandate of serving Canadian workers. The balancing of these two demanding objectives, while at the same time maintaining the stability of the organization and the conformity of its services through a period of adjustment, will be a challenging task for the management of the centre.


The hon. member will have six minutes remaining in his debate the next time the motion is brought before the House.
The time provided for the consideration of Private Members' Business has now expired. Pursuant to Standing Order 93, the order is dropped to the bottom of the list of the order of precedence on the Order Paper.
It being two o'clock p.m., the House will now proceed to Statements by Members pursuant to Standing Order 31.


Mr. Speaker, the Supreme Court decision in the Mahe case is an important victory for linguistic minorities in Canada. The Court ruled that section 23 of the Charter of Rights includes the right to manage and control schools. I want to remind the House that Franco-Albertans were able to go to court to determine their rights because in 1980 the Liberal government decided to repatriate the Constitution and include a Charter of Rights in it.
At the time, we decided that we had to define once and for all the rights that belonged to all Canadians. We believed that the Charter would thus become an important unifying factor. In that sense, Mr. Speaker, Canada is the big winner in this Supreme Court decision affirming the rights of linguistic minorities in this country.


Mr. Speaker, on March 15, the Supreme Court handed down an historic ruling on francophone minority rights with respect to education. The judgment makes it clear that francophones in Alberta have the right to control and manage their own schools. This is a major victory for all francophones outside Quebec.
Mr. Speaker, it took eight years of waiting and costly legal battles before Franco-Albertans finally saw this fundamental right recognized.
The judgment specifies that the quality of the education offered must equal that of the education given the majority, without necessarily being identical.
However, by refusing to comment on the terms "where numbers warrant" in section 23 of the Charter, the Supreme Court has handed the issue back to the provinces and our legislators.

March 19, 1990
Considering yesterday's judgment, Mr. Speaker, it is imperative that the provinces be more generous in recognizing the legitimate rights of their language minorities and stop harassing them before the courts.


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of this House I would like to extend best wishes to Team Canada and all the women who will be competing in the first International Ice Hockey Federation Women's World Championships here in Ottawa.
Beginning today and all this week, teams representing Canada, United States, Japan, Switzerland, Finland, Sweden, Norway and West Germany will face off in this inaugural meeting of the best women hockey players in the world.
As a great hockey nation, we can be proud that the first women's hockey championships are being held here in our capital. I would like to recognize and thank the co-hosts of this event, the city of Ottawa and the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association.
I would also like to recognize Tackla Canada Incorporated, The Ott