Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to table today, in both official languages, an Order in Council announcing an appointment made recently by the government.
Pursuant to Standing Order 110(1), this Order in Council is deemed to have been referred to the Standing Committee named in the appendix.
While I am on my feet, I take this opportunity to move:
That the House do now proceed to the Orders of the Day.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt this motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion, the yeas have it.
And more than five Members having risen:


Call in the Members.


I declare the motion carried.


My apologies, Mr. Speaker, had I been in my seat when the vote was counted, I would have voted with my party.


Mr. Speaker, I had planned, following completion of Routine Proceedings earlier today, to make an application under Standing Order 52 requesting an emergency debate on the urgent crisis facing women's centres. My point of order is that since this is no longer possible as the government moved earlier to deny proceedings, I seek unanimous consent of the House to make this application now.


Hear, hear!


Does the hon. member have unanimous consent?
eration concerning funding to women's centres across Canada.
This funding was terminated on March 30, leaving these places of information, referral and support for abused women, homeless women, jobless women, and women in difficulty on the brink of closing. The centres have not yet closed but most will do so almost immediately if federal funding is not continued.
This is a very urgent matter and a grave crisis facing women of Canada from coast to coast to coast and I ask for an emergency debate on this matter.


Hear, hear!


I am afraid that this does not meet the requirements of the Standing Orders and at this time I am afraid I cannot allow the debate.
The hon. member for Crowfoot.


Mr. Speaker, during the vote just taken I noted that the hon. member for Davenport was not wearing a tie. That is a requirement under the rules of the House. It is not a point that I would not normally raise except that it was a matter to which recently some attention was brought in this House.


I have allowed the hon. member to be recognized on the vote but I would not recognize him on debate, or any points of order, or questions in this House until he changes to proper attire.


Agreed.


I thank my colleagues for giving unanimous consent.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to move that this House do now adjourn under the provisions of Standing Order 52 to discuss a matter requiring immediate and urgent consid-
The House resumed from Wednesday, April 4, consideration of the motion of Mr. Andre:
That, in relation to Bill C-62, an Act to amend the Excise Tix Act, the Criminal Code, the Customs Act, the Customs Thrift, the Excise Act, the Income Thx Act, the Statistics Act and the Thx Court of Canada Act, not more than one further sitting day shall be allotted to

April 5, 1990

the consideration of the report stage, and one sitting day to the consideration of third reading stage of the said bill; and
That, Fifteen minutes before the expiry of the time provided for Government Business on the final day for consideration of each such stage, both days, any proceedings before the House shall be interrupted, if required, for the purpose of this Order and, in turn, every question necessary in order to dispose respectively of the report stage and third reading of the said bill shall be put forthwith and successively, without further debate or amendment.


Mr. Speaker, it is my pleasure to rise again and continue the debate we began last night on this issue. Last night the debate was becoming more than acrimonious. We saw the Minister of Finance negotiate with a gun called ''closure" on the table. It earned the absolute ire and anger of all members. You quite rightly put everybody in place by reminding us that he is, after all, an honourable member. And as an hon. member he is being very appropriate in disseminating the truths-and there are many that come from his department and office-regarding the GST proposal.
He forgot to tell us that the start-up cost for the GST proposal is going to be in excess of $1.1 billion, according to the Minister of National Revenue. He forgot to tell us that the operating costs for the implementation of this GST are going to be in excess of $380 million annually. He forgot to tell us again that there are going to be an additional 3,900 other tax collectors required to implement this tax. He forgot as well to advise all members that the operating and administrative costs are going to be horrendous as the provinces and his own department are confused about how all of this will take place.
Mr. Speaker, you reminded us that the minister was an honourable man, so we continued to listen as he berated this side of the House for not coming up with alternatives. The minister said that his view was the only view because no one had presented an alternative. Again, he forgot to tell us that he and his party were elected to present policy proposals for our consideration. He did not give us an indication as to what proposals his department had rejected in place of the GST.
He forgot to take notice in Toronto just a few days ago that a group of economists, academics and journalists who write on economic matters presented a series of alternatives to the GST objectives by focusing on govem-
Time Allocation
ment inefficient administration that, if corrected, would save in excess of $13 billion per annum.
When the minister says that he must redress the tax situation in Canada in order to address these kinds of inefficiencies, why does he reject these rather worthwhile proposals by these individuals?
That is a good question. But you insist that he is an honourable man and we cannot impugn his honour. He forgot to tell us that the Institute for Research on Public Policy made a new alternative proposal to the GST, basing a new tax reform on income tax and an increase that would still be 10 points lower than it was in 1981. I do not know why that could not be considered an alternative tax to the GST.
Again, all members were silenced because, after all, the Minister of Finance speaks as an honourable man. He rejected with scorn and disdain another proposal presented by my hon. colleague from Broadview- Greenwood for a single tax. He says "No, no. That is but a simple book, a simple book that even my back-benchers over there cannot read". Yet, you insist, Mr. Speaker, that he is an honourable man and we must treat him with deference.
What are the objectives the Minister of Finance holds so dear that we must bow and scrape and I dare say grovel with deference, without being able to put across our views? The minister says we must have tax reform. Let us have tax reform.
Over the course of the last four or five years there has been an increase in personal taxes of some 24 per cent. There has been an increase of 62 per cent in personal taxes for low and middle income Canadians while at the same time only an 8 per cent increase for those in the upper income category.
This is the tax reform he would address with the GST. The minister forgot to tell us and his own members-except the two worthy hon. members from Alberta who have already rejected his entreaties-that there has been a decrease of some 4 per cent in the amount of taxes paid by corporations as a percentage of the GDP.
The minister forgot to tell us, even though his estimates pointed out that over the course of the middle 1980s, 1987 for example, businesses were to pay $12 billion in corporate taxes but received $9 billion in subsidies. The minister's tax proposal does not address

April 5, 1990
Time Allocation
that as a reform. According to the budget estimates presented only last month, corporations that were to pay $14.5 billion paid a mere $12.5 billion. Is that tax reform?
Another person might have suggested that the Minister of Finance lies, but he is an honourable man and that cannot be said of him.
Let us take a look at what a member of his own party, the member for Halton-Peel, said on national television Sunday night. He said: "We must have the GST. We have to raise more money to reduce the deficit, continue to pay for our educational programs and our medical programs across the country"-those which were cut in this budget-"but we are going to do it because this will give us an opportunity to reduce the deficit and the debt".
The hon. member for Halton-Peel is an honourable man too, but he suffers from excessive ambition. He would take the place of the Minister of Finance.
When we are talking about the effects of the GST, let us leave with a word of caution from members of the tourist industry who say that the implementation of such a tax measure will cause the loss of 30,000 jobs in that particular industry-5,000 in Ontario alone.
Those kinds of actions and consequences are not the marks of an honourable man, and the Minister of Finance does not deserve the title.


Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to join in this debate today. I have been listening with great interest to the debate these past couple of days.
I understand the hon. member for Eglinton-Lawrence standing and mocking the Minister of Finance and trying to make him out as a mean-spirited individual. I understand the Liberals' concern about the current Minister of Finance because he is the best Minister of Finance this country has seen in 40 years. The member is so upset about it because there is not a soul in that caucus who could even tie his shoes.
Who over there would be the Minister of Finance? Would it be the hon. member from the east coast who was on national television to debate the Minister of
Finance? Is he going to be their Minister of Finance if they ever gain power? The present minister wiped the floor with him in Edmonton. There he is, he just came into the House. I welcome him. I am glad he is here.
I understand why the Liberals are so concerned about the Minister of Finance. It is because he is good and they know it. He has been an excellent Minister of Finance for this country.
The hon. member talked about the rich getting the breaks. The GST is a consumption tax. I want to educate my hon. friend because he comes from an area of the city where they have high-income and low-income people. He has a mixed constituency, much like I have. The GST is a consumption tax. The more you consume, the more tax you pay. The more expensive the things you buy are, the more tax you pay.
Who is going to be paying more tax under the GST? The wealthy, of course they are. He failed to point that out in his little diatribe. Of course that is what a consumption tax is all about.
Tbday we are debating time allocation. The reason that the government has brought in time allocation is for the very reason that you hear from across the floor of the House. The Liberals brought in a series of motions to negate each clause in the bill. That is all that was in these motions. They did not make amendments to improve the bill, but strictly to wipe out the bill.


Scrap the tax, that's what we want.


They had an opportunity to do that with their votes, but, no, they would not participate.
The other thing about the Liberal Party of Canada is that it has no alternatives-absolutely no alternatives whatsoever.


How can you say that with a straight face?


They had no alternatives to the free trade agreement. Everybody remembers the former leader standing there and saying: "I'm going to tear it up. I'm going to tear it up".
Now, the candidates for the leadership of that party are going around the country saying: "We are going to wipe out the GST". I am going to tell you, one of the things they are not saying to the Canadian people is what
April 5, 1990

they are going to put in its place. Not one of them has said that.


That is not true.


Except le p'tit gars de Shawinigan. He said very clearly: "We must be sure. We cannot wipe it out."


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.
I do not think it is too parliamentary for a member of Parliament to use that kind of facial expression. I think that is mockery. I do not think it is parliamentary at all.


Mr. Speaker, I have to remind my friends that I have been in the House many times when Eugene Whalen used to get up and do exactly the same thing. I am not making fun of my friend, Mr. Chretien. I am impersonating Mr. Chretien when he says he would not wipe out the GST if he became the leader.


That is not what he said.


Sure, that is what he said. His mouthpiece from Toronto has moved from his back-bench seat to the front row so he can heckle me. He can heckle all he wants. I am going on with my speech.
The Liberals would negate the bill, they have no alternatives.
Let me turn to my good friends from the socialist party. The socialists in this country have made it very clear from day one-they have been right up front with it, and I have to give them full marks for that-they would do everything to obstruct this bill-absolutely everything. They are not here to debate it. They are not here to try to improve it. They are here strictly as obstructionists.
A government was elected to do the business of the country, and that is what we are doing. That is why we brought in time allocation. It is obvious that they are not interested in debating the bill in an intelligent way. We have gone through a major consultative process on this bill. We have, for many years, been consulting all sectors of the economy on the goods and services tax. It is now time to get on with it.
We have some government amendments that have been introduced which improve the bill. They come from suggestions and consultations in the finance committee
Time Allocation
under the able leadership of the hon. member for Mississauga South.
I will tell you, that is another thing members of the opposition are upset with. We have a great chairman of the finance committee, and they do not like him at all. It is too bad. He has done a marvellous job, and this country understands that he has done a marvellous job.
I might say that during the committee hearings we had some excellent representations from witnesses. They have provided us with suggestions for improvement. We will see those improvements in the amendments that are brought forward to make the GST operate better and more fairly in this country.
Governments have to make tough choices, tough decisions. We understand that they may not be popular with the people. But there comes a time when the government has to make a decision for the economic well-being of this country. That is what we have done.
I read with great interest this morning my media pundits saying that our caucus is falling apart, that our caucus is disintegrating because of the goods and services tax. There is nothing further from the truth. The Progressive Conservative caucus is solidly behind the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister on the goods and services tax.
You know what? I will tell you. The caucus members met regularly with the Minister of Finance, and also with the chairman of the finance committee, and made some very positive suggestions which improved the goods and services tax. Members of our caucus did that. They were very productive. They were very positive in their approach. They did not have this negativism that we get from the other side, which has absolutely no alternative. There have been no alternatives whatsoever from the Liberal party, or from the New Democratic Party that make any sense.
I am telling you, Mr. Speaker, and I want the media to understand this, as well as the Liberals and the New Democrats, the Progressive Conservative Party, the Progressive Conservative caucus is solidly behind the Minister of Finance and the government in this motion today.
We watch what is going on in those two parties, and their leadership convention. We see them fighting over one another all the time. They should be taking a look at

April 5, 1990
Time Allocation
themselves before they look at the Progressive Conservative Party.


Eighty per cent of Canadians are against the tax. That's a good job in six years.


I think the hon. member for Kamloops is rising on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I must not have understood the news media last night. I thought I was watching and hearing members of the Progressive Conservative caucus who indicated they were not voting in favour of the GST. When my hon. friend says that the caucus is uniformly in solidarity behind this measure, obviously he is not speaking the truth.


I believe that is debate. The minister has one minute left.


Certainly we know it is debate. We know who he is talking about. Ele is talking about someone who, from day one, has opposed the goods and services tax and who has been sitting on the outside of the whole debate and has not participated in a positive way, like the other members of the caucus have. The caucus is not disintegrating, I can assure my hon. friend of that. As much as he would like to see it, it just is not happening.
Finally, what we are seeing across this country is that approval for the goods and services tax is growing. It is growing through the understanding of how the system operates and how it works.
I received a letter recently from a small businessman, a manufacturer in my community who said: "I have done as you suggested and prepared a cash flow statement for 12 months under the present federal sales tax system and also one under the proposed GST. It appears that this is a case where I am glad to say I was wrong. Quarterly remittances makes a big improvement on our cash flow"-it is about 34 per cent by the way-"and offsets the outlay of cash when raw product is purchased. The GST tax credit on office supplies, et cetera, makes very little difference to our particular company but I can see in other operations it could be significant."
That is what is happening across this country as the small business community understands that this is going to be a great improvement. I can tell you, by 1992 the
Canadian people will be pleased that we brought this system in.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. May I ask the minister if he could table that letter so we can all see it.


Would the hon. minister like to mail the letter to the hon. member?


Mr. Speaker, I did not read from it, I ad libbed around the essence of it.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to talk a bit about the goods and services tax in the short time I have to speak on this. I say a short time because, quite frankly, many of my colleagues on this side of the House have been lining up to speak on this bill and have not been given the opportunity to do that because of time allocation.
I will start my remarks by talking about the government's attitude toward time allocation and its use of it. Since I was elected to this House, the government has used time allocation or closure 35 to 40 times. That is an appalling number of times to limit debate. Canadians want us to stand up and speak on their behalf on these issues. Yet time and time again this government has brought in time allocation to limit our abilities to discuss the issues.
The GST issue has only been debated in the House at report stage for 46 minutes, and we are already debating time allocation.
There are many serious concerns that the people of Haldimand-Norfolk want me to express about the GST. I have had various meetings throughout the riding with them.
I want to centre on three issues dealing with its effects on agriculture, seniors and our small business people. These are the people in riding who have come to me to express their concerns about the GST.
Farmers will now have to pay the GST on fertilizers, chemicals, fuels, lubricants, equipment repairs and all other general maintenance. To receive rebates, farmers will have to chase down every single receipt for money they paid in order to receive any funding back from the government.
April 5, 1990

Farmers have told me time and again that this is going to be an extreme burden on their abilities to farm. Instead of taking the time to deal with proper farming methods, they are going to have to be bookkeepers. They are going to have to be accountants. This tax puts an undue burden on them. The farmers of Haldimand- Norfolk wanted me to express that to you, Sir.
As Ontario Federation of Agriculture president Brigit Pyke told the finance committee: "Their cash flow position could be considerably worsened, forcing them to borrow money in order to pay the tax." This is a real problem for agricultural communities.
Then there is the massive paperwork burden. As the president of the Western Canadian Wheat Growers put it: "We'll be doing our books every spring instead of riding a tractor".
Farmers already have a cash flow problem, as we have discussed in this House, and this government has decided to take away the interest free advances that farmers, especially in my riding, count on.
Now the government brings farmers the GST. With it, the money that farmers need to put out to get their crops planted and harvested will now be used to pay taxes. If they want rebates quickly, they will have to do their books on a monthly basis and they will never be compensated for this time and effort.
Farm equipment dealers told the finance committee that the GST will mean an additional $40 million in interest and paperwork costs to their industry. Allen Hills of the Canadian Federation of Farm Equipment Dealers of Canada said: "We cannot afford to absorb any more costs. Either the farmers will pay or some dealers will have to go bankrupt".
The government is not totally heartless when it comes to farmers though. If farmers decide to give up the farm completely, to sell all their land to another farmer or a relative, or if they are forced out of the business, then they do not have to pay GST. But if farmers decide to stay on the farm and try to make a go of it by selling off part of their land to a developer or to any other business to pay for the additional costs of farming that the GST will force upon them, the sale will then be subject to the GST.
The government has stated that basic food prices will not rise as a result of the GST. But if the costs, in both time and money, of growing food rises, surely either the
Time Allocation
food prices will rise or the burden will be put on the farmer.
As badly off as the farmer will be, he will not be alone. As I said, I have had many discussions with different seniors groups in Haldimand-Norfolk and, quite frankly, Sir, they are outraged with this tax. They have lost respect and confidence in this government. The government that told them that social programs were sacred was the same government that attacked our elderly with the clawback and is now attacking them with the GST.
I and my caucus have met with different seniors organizations. Jean Woodsworth, president of the One Voice Seniors Network, said: "The tax on goods and services means hardship on seniors. It seems that low and middle-income seniors will be pushed toward poverty. The proposed tax credits do not reassure them- meanwhile, wealthy Canadians will be paying proportionately much less, and that's just not fair."
The GST proposal is not fair. It is not fair to seniors, it is not fair to farmers and it is not fair at all to the small business people, especially those in my riding.
I had a meeting recently with them in Simcoe where we discussed this tax. Quite frankly, 99.9 per cent of them were against the GST. They had very valid reasons. They were concerned by the cost that the GST would put upon their small businesses, which now need cash flow. They are concerned that government programs to assist them with purchasing things like cash registers will not be in place and that the cost of maintaining this GST will be much more than any rebate that the government gives to them, and they voiced these concerns to me. Mr. Bulloch, who appeared before the committee, gave many differing reasons why small business was against the tax. I do not want to go through them, but I do want to quote from a speech of his in which he outlines the stand of the Canadian Federation of Independent Business. He said:
The measures proposed to assist small businesses with implementing the tax-would be a reasonable attempt to offset the regressive compliance implications of a single-tiered sales tax. They do not, however, begin to offset the actual costs that will be imposed on small firms by a two-tiered tax system.
Even the government and the Minister of Finance, early on indicated that they would not bring in a two-tiered tax system. It was his idea that if you could negotiate with the provinces and get some sort of agreement on this, then that would be the best approach to take. Quite frankly, he has failed to do that. As a

April 5, 1990
Time Allocation
result, he has put in jeopardy small business people in Canada, and those in my riding.
I see my time is coming to an end. Before I finish, I want to quote a constituent of mine who called the GST hotline to get information on the GST. He is a small businessman. He said: "While they gave me very good information on certain questions I had, one person asked me if there was any other country I would like to live in. I happen to be a third generation Canadian, going back to the early 1800s. My father served in World War I and I served in World War II and I do not appreciate being asked this question just because I had opposition to the GST".
Quite frankly, that question portrays the attitude of this government toward those who oppose it. Instead of listening to opposition concerns, taking them in and trying to develop some sort of alternative that might reflect what small businessmen, seniors and farmers are saying out there, it brings in closure instead. It brings in time allocation to stop debate on this issue.
There are other approaches. There are approaches and alternatives that have been put out by different groups. I think that these should have been discussed. The process should have started with discussion, first, and then the alternatives.
Our party does have an alternative to the GST. We want to scrap the tax. We want to open discussions, talk with Canadians, small businessmen, farmers and seniors about their concerns. I think that is the proper approach.
I see you are signalling that my time is up. I appreciate having the opportunity to speak on this question.


Mr. Speaker, I will not hide from you that I am more convinced than ever that it is important to pass this legislation as quickly as possible.
I am even more convinced because of what I just heard the previous speaker say. His statements and allegations are totally unfounded and so erroneous that I am more determined than ever to get the debate over with, because these falsehoods are likely to frighten our
people and have nothing to do with the legislation we are preparing to pass.
I also deplore the fact that my hon. colleague who just spoke and who is also a backbencher did not take more time to read the legislation a little more thoroughly and report back to his constituents. He gave some examples like farmers and small businesses, but he could have given them clarifications to show that he really represents his riding. But alas, what I just heard from him is false.
So I repeat, Mr. Speaker, it is urgent to pass this bill and to get it over with once and for all.
After years of studies, analyses and reports on the problems of our present system, now more than ever is the time to act, not to talk and distort reality.
In the past few months, we have seen a whole slew of tactics and tricks from the hon. members opposite, and I just heard another example of it.
Did they make statements to improve the bill? They did not. Did they suggest alternatives to the present unfair system? They did not. Mr. Speaker, I have not heard a single constructive remark in all the speeches they have made so far. All they have done is criticize. All they have done is use scare tactics on Canadians, especially on certain groups tire senior citizens. All the delay, all the problems they raised were just a lot of petty politics. This is just one more example of the opposition's traditional tactics of scaring people and not moving an inch, so that we now have this disastrous legacy including our cumulative annual deficits-our national debt-and what they did was merely maintain the tax system we have today that is so unfair to Canadians.
Both opposition parties know perfectly well that we must change the present federal sales tax-a hidden tax-and do so drastically. They know perfectly well we must reduce the deficit-


You increased it by 45 per cent since 1984.


-and control our debt so we can get rid of it altogether. However, in their, I would say, cynical campaign against the GST, spokesmen for these two parties have tried to scare, as I said earlier, the most vulnerable members of our society: senior citizens and low-income families.
April 5, 1990


Is the FTQ scaring people in Quebec? Is Louis Laberge trying to scare people in Quebec? Yes or no?


I must say, Mr. Speaker, and I heard some reactions just now. I believe that to a certain extent, they scared people. Yes, they did. Remember what they did during the debate on free trade. They scared them then, to a certain extent. They did. However, all the more reason to finish with these enless arguments which are causing considerable concern among Canadians.


We haven't finished yet! Remember the deindexed pensions?


Many people do not realize that thanks to the tax credit they will receive, their incomes will go up, although my hon. opposition colleague from the finance committee does not agree.


It isn't indexed.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to know whether my colleagues across the way, who are interrupting me, are proud of what they did? Are they really proud of the scare tactics they used on the most vulnerable people in this country? If they claim to represent Canadians, including the most vulnerable in our society, how can their conscience and sense of honesty let them do and say what they are doing and saying now?


Eighty per cent of Quebecers are against the GST.


The answer is clear. They are not responsible people and they do not represent these vulnerable groups because otherwise, Mr. Speaker, they would have suggested alternatives. They would have added constructive amendments. But it was no, always no, until the very end, including the filibuster.


My colleague proposed 60 amendments.


The Tories are down to 17 per cent in the polls! Twenty per cent of people are for the GST.


You are even less popular than the GST!


Wait until the election!


When you start flogging your promises again?
Time Allocation


So it is not surprising, Mr. Speaker, that when they are exposed to this kind of cynicism and tunnel vision on the part of opposition members, Canadians have trouble trusting politicians. Unfortunately, this reflects badly, not just on the opposition but on all parties generally. How can groups that are particularly vulnerable, and how can Canadians in general be expected to trust politicians?


Fewer than 20 per cent are in favour of the GST.


You are down to 17 per cent in the polls.


Mr. Speaker, just listen to the opposition's violent response to whatever we have to say, and we have a right to say it, Mr. Speaker.
In two or three years, when election time comes around again-and I would advise you, my opposition friends, to listen to what I have to say.


Good for you, Yvon!


When election time comes around again, in two or three years, I am convinced that once again, the vast majority of Canadians will put their trust in a government that has acted responsibly, that had the courage to do what is necessary, what others before us failed to do, thus leaving us with this deficit and this national debt.
Mr. Speaker, as long as politicians base their decisions on partisan and purely political considerations, we will have governments that are not responsible, that are powerless, and we should not be surprised at the kind of legacy such governments leave to the electorate they claim to represent and whose well-being they claim to defend. I repeat, in two or three years, we-when I say we, I mean Canadians, except for the opposition-will appreciate the competence and courage of this government.


It being 12.31 o'clock p.m., the two hours provided for the consideration of the motion now before the House under the provisions of Standing Order 78(3) have expired.

April 5, 1990
S. o. 31
Accordingly, under the terms of the Standing Order, it is my duty to interrupt the proceedings and put every question necessary to dispose of the motion.
Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion, the yeas have it.
And more than five members having risen:


Call in the members.


I declare the motion carried.
It being one o'clock I do now leave the chair until two o'clock this day.
At 1 p.m. the House took recess.


AFTER RECESS

The House resumed at 2 p.m.
April 5, 1990
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to recent budget cuts to various social and educational programs. This government has cut important programs for our aging veterans, is diminishing our native people's ability to communicate with themselves and others, has cut women's programs which provide support for battered and sexually assaulted women and for jobless, illiterate and homeless women in Canada.
Furthermore, this government has cut important educational programs and, in particular, has cut funding to the summer group exchange program. This program has permitted students to learn English and French through exchanges between Quebec and Ontario.
I wonder, with others, why this government cut funding to a program which promotes bilingualism, tolerance and understanding among our young Canadians. This year, because of government cut-backs, 18 school boards were forced to drop the program eliminating the participation of over 800 students.
At a time when relations between English and French speaking Canadians are strained, we are seeing an assault by this government on a program which promotes greater understanding, tolerance and acceptance.
The Commissioner of Official Languages this week accused the government of failing to take the necessary measures to promote the intent of our Official Languages Act. I ask the government to accept the just criticism and, as a first step, reinstate the necessary funding to promote student official language exchanges.


Mr. Speaker, we are all aware of the need to take steps to improve our environment and to protect the natural beauty of this country for future generations.
The creation of the Rouge River Valley system is an important victory that will preserve 10,500 acres of river valley in close proximity to Canada's largest city. This victory was only achieved after decades of effort by many people and all levels of government.
When we look at this triumph, we can see the tremendous effort we all must be willing to put forth over the next years if we are to make real progress in solving our environmental problems.
In this effort, I wish to acknowledge the member for Scarborough Centre who worked tirelessly to bring about real solutions to this difficult environmental problem.


Mr. Speaker, this government appears determined to force Canadians to swallow the goods and services tax, despite the obvious negative effects it would have on the health of our economy, despite protests from all sides, and despite the general feeling that it is a rotten tax.
This exercise of having the GST rammed down our throats has left a lot of us feeling pretty sick. In fact, even some Conservative members of the House are showing signs of nausea. At the same time, we have heard that any Tory member who misses the final GST vote will be asked to produce a note from his or her doctor. In other words, they are going to be dragging themselves here even if they are at death's door.
As someone who cares sincerely about my colleagues, I am urging hon. members to play it safe. If you are feeling too disgusted to vote for the GST, I am sure that we can come up with a doctor's note to get you off the hook.


Mr. Speaker, the federal government in one year has cut back its commitment to agriculture by 57 per cent, a drop of $1.8 billion.
The Ontario soybean growers report that current prices are 14 per cent below the five-year average, 25 per cent below that of a year ago, and that several areas were hit hard by drought and excessive moisture last year. Likewise, the Ontario com producers marketing people

April 5, 1990
note that the yields from last year are down 30 per cent to 60 per cent due to continued drought across 13 counties, and that the Niagara-Haldimand area and Essex were critically damaged due to excessive moisture last spring. The income of com producers in Ontario is currently only 28 per cent of pre-1985 levels.
Although grain and oilseed producers in Ontario are encouraged that the government has finally made an announcement of possible aid, the "if" factor of the government's proposal has left them vulnerable and does not address immediate planting problems.
To date, there has been no indication of how much assistance has been earmarked for Ontario or what mechanisms will be used to determine levels or the nature of that assistance. These critical questions need answers immediately from the government.
The time for stalling is over. Canada's producers need a firm commitment rather than one that makes them pawns for the cynical hard ball tactics of the federal government against the provinces.


Mr. Speaker, Canada celebrates on Saturday, April 7, World Health Day, which has for its theme "Your Health and the Environment" and for its slogan "Think Globally and Act Locally".
About 1,000 to 2,500 children under the age of five years in developing countries die every hour from diarr-hoeal disease caused by lack of safe water. About one million people are poisoned each year from contact with pesticides of whom between 5,000 and 20,000 die.
Indeed, environmental problems are now the world's major causes of diseases, death and dislocation. Industry poses the danger of chemical contamination and toxic waste. Burning fossil fuels causes the greenhouse effect.
Destruction of the environment by creating deserts and raising the level of the sea will force people to move from their homes.
This year's theme challenges all concerned to embark on an awareness program to highlight the measures citizens and countries must take to stop further damage
to our planet and to spotlight the viable options for sustainable development.
As parliamentarians, let us accept the political prescription: the challenge to us to act locally in matters of health and the environment is great; the challenge to us to think globally when we act locally is greater.
"No man is an island, entire of itself", wrote the 17th century poet, John Donne. As we celebrate World Health Day, let us recall and live his message.


Mr. Speaker, as members will know, the task force report of the Canadian Labour Market and Productivity Centre was released this past Monday.
The report highlights that Canada's future economic growth and prosperity will increasingly depend on a highly skilled and adaptive labour force. Yet, to meet the demands of an evolving work environment, Canada needs a new attitude and approach to training our labour force. Our current national training effort sorely lags behind that of our major competitors.
It is imperative that our government show leadership in this respect. We must work with the provinces as well as with business and labour to realize the fundamental recommendations of the CLMPC report.
Through a new institutional framework, policies and programs, we can help Canadians adapt effectively to the changes in occupational and skills requirements which they will face in the future.
I urge the members of this House, and indeed all Canadians, to read the CLMPC report. Many of the recommendations demonstrate the urgency and vitality of an effective and comprehensive skills training strategy for our future economic well-being.


Mr. Speaker, details of the government's long awaited relief package for the Atlantic fishery are trickling out. In what we have seen so far, there is no mention of any plan to upgrade the role of the Department of Fisheries and
April 5, 1990

Oceans in any of the areas where there should be, one of which relates directly to seafood marketing.
Had this government not directed the department in 1986 to relinquish its traditional leading role in marketing, Atlantic fishermen might be in a better position to harvest profitably the hundreds of thousands of tonnes of fish currently allocated to foreign boats as underutilized species. Instead, we now see groundfish plants closing because they are dependent on traditional stocks.
This is a question of taking responsibility. The government does not dispute the fact that this crisis is a result of its poor scientific analysis. In order to ensure that as many fishermen and plants as possible can stay in the fishery until the stocks recover, the government must also take the responsibility for helping hard pressed Atlantic Canadians diversify their seafood product lines and establish new markets.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday we witnessed the Prime Minister of this country flying all the way to Alberta, without passport, to urge MPs in Alberta to support the GST. The Prime Minister's advice was not heeded by a significant number of Tories. I am urging members in this House to consider the pitfalls if they go along with that advice.
Just think if they support the government and the GST is passed. Not one of the Liberal candidates running for leadership has said that if they were Prime Minister they would cancel it. What we have is the government urging those western members of Parliament to become part of the kamikaze squad. They will die so that the Liberals can live, and Canadians can't stand it.


Mr. Speaker, at the June 1988 Changing Atmosphere Conference in Toronto, the best scientific minds from around the world
concluded that we should globally reduce carbon dioxide pollution by 20 per cent by the year 2005.
Two years later, at a ministerial conference just concluded, the federal energy minister argued that Canada should wait. For what, for whom, and why?
This is another example of indecision and division. On the one hand the environment minister issues a well intentioned but weak discussion paper on the environment saying that if we do not take action soon on global warming, it may be too late. On the other hand the energy minister declines to give leadership on the environment and declares that national restrictions on greenhouse gases are premature.
So far this government's statements on the environment are empty words. What a sham.


Earlier this year, Mr. Speaker, Alitalia Airlines appeared no longer interested in the Rome-Montreal air connection and was even planning to vacate its Montreal head office.
Following this announcement, representatives and travel agents within the Italian community decided to take up this challenge.
An Urgence Pro-Alitalia committee was formed and I personally travelled twice to Rome, together with a delegation, to meet the top Alitalia executives.
It is clear, in the present circumstances that the new Alitalia officials do not realize the importance of Quebec as a reliable, constant and cost-effective market.
After listening to our representations, the Alitalia executives reverse their decision; they will maintain, for the time being, the Montreal-Rome air connection.
We have won a battle granted but not the war!
Alitalia Airlines will surely try again, because it wants more flexibility on the new bilateral agreement which is to be negotiated within a couple of weeks.

April 5, 1990
I have told the Ministers of Transport that we should accept a new and more flexible agreement, provided we are not penalizing Quebec, Montreal and Mirabel, and certainly not the Italian community which I represent.


Mr. Speaker, I urge the government to continue in its efforts to renegotiate the lapsed forestiy agreements between the federal government and the provinces.
In recognition of the importance of this issue, I would like to advise that there was a unanimous recommendation from the forestry subcommittee that we in the strongest terms express to the minister our continued support for his efforts to renegotiate this agreement. It would be unthinkable if our provinces were in any way to allow these programs that are so valuable to our environment as well as our economy to lapse.
The minister has our support. I ask him to get those agreements.


Mr. Speaker, during the past 24 hours I have heard protestations of anguish from members opposite about the government's use of time allocation to conclude the debate on the GST bill.
At the same time, the unelected Liberal majority in the Senate is endlessly delaying Bill C-21, thereby costing unemployed Canadians thousands of dollars that they need and deserve.
Now we have the member for LaSalle-Emard, in his quest for the leadership, calling on the Senate to ignore the will of the democratically elected House by blocking the GST bill.
Meanwhile, the little guy from Shawinigan does not like the GST, but he would not scrap it.
This morning on CTV, Senator Kirby said the Senate should hear from those Canadians not heard by the finance committee. Yet, the Senate committee on Bill C-21 heard 54 of the same witnesses as had been heard by the legislative committee of this House.
The Liberals may be confusing themselves. They are not fooling Canadians. That is why this party is in power, and that is why this government will be re-elected.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to comment on an efficient government.
The reason I rise today in this House is to remind Hon. Members that last week, within the context of a federal-provincial initiative, the Federal Government showed leadership by entrusting the private sector with the management of the Program for Older Worker Adjustment through the awarding of several contracts for the purchase of life annuities.
The purpose of this program is to provide a regular and steady income to working men and women between the age of 55 and 64 who permanently lose their jobs as a result of mass lay-offs.
Mr. Speaker, it took only nine months from the time the legislation was passed to the time the first cheques were issued.
By having the private sector look after the management of the Program for Older Worker Adjustment, the Government did not have to set up a new bureaucracy thus saving additional costs which would have been spread over a couple of years.
I wish to congratulate the Federal Government for its leadership in this area, and especially Hon. Jean Corbeil, the Minister of Labour, in charge of this project to assist Canadian men and women who have contributed so much to our Canadian society.


Mr. Speaker, last night the Prime Minister went to Alberta to soft sell the GST. It is obvious that Albertans are not going to be flattered into supporting it.
As the final vote for the GST approaches, we see how Alberta MPs are being strong armed. Albertans are against this GST and do not appreciate the chief government Whip bullying them into line, to oppose the wishes of the democratic majority. We see that two members
April 5, 1990

have already been threatened. We know that other members are being bribed to vote for the GST or risk losing precious lifetime pensions.
By not appointing Mr. Waters to the Senate, by stifling debate on the GST, by imposing it on Albertans against the wishes of 80 per cent of the people, and by the chief Whip suggesting an increase now of $7,000 on their tax-free allowances in times of fiscal restraint to buy anti-GST MPs, this government and the Alberta MPs are doing little to endear themselves to the electorate.


Mr. Speaker, in Winnipeg this weekend Jean Chretien continued not to support the fight against the GST. He is refusing to say what he would do if he were the Prime Minister of this country.
We saw the effect of Mr. Chretien's wavering. This afternoon, only 110 Conservatives showed up to vote for the time allocation motion. They won that by 43 votes and 48 Liberals did not show up to vote against the government. If those Liberals had shown up, then Tory MPs would have had to go home at Easter, hear from their constituents and would have voted against the GST.
As a public service, I wish to give out Mr. Chretien's campaign number so people can protest the lack of voting by the Liberal caucus. In Winnipeg, the number is area code 204-944-0267, in Vancouver, area code 604-684-8492, and in Montreal, area code 514-844-1990.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister.
We have learned in recent days that some government members are having trouble representing the concerns of their constituents against the goods and services tax
Oral Questions
because of the strong arm tactics of the Conservative Whip.
Will the acting Prime Minister allow all government members, including those who have these concerns, to vote freely on this legislation? Will he allow a free vote on the goods and services tax?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member well knows that this government regards this major economic measure, as governments of which he was a part in the distant past regarded major economic measures, as a question of confidence.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the acting