Mr. Speaker, I appeal to the Minister of Employment and Immigration to halt the deportation of Mr. Jayantha Ilanderidewa, a refugee claimant from Sri Lanka.
Sri Lanka is one of the most violent countries in the world. As many as 20,000 people have been killed in that country in the last year. Many areas, particularly in the south where this man comes from, look like ghost towns.
Five members of Mr. Ilanderidewa's family have already been killed in the strife in that country. He has lost two brothers, two uncles and a cousin for their involvement with the JVP, the People's Liberation Front.
A Sri Lankan M.P. and human rights activist was recently shot dead outside the Canadian embassy. He was calling to arrange a visa for a speaking trip to Britain and North America.
The government should not be deporting people to Sri Lanka. I ask the minister to reconsider her decision.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to draw to the attention of the House that 46 years ago today was D-Day in Europe. June 6, 1944, D-Day,
will always remain a memorable date in the history of the world.
Canadians can take pride in the knowledge that our services were a major part in this largest ever armada. Over 15,000 Canadians, a fifth of the total allied invasion force, established themselves on the Normandy beaches. Our army, the Royal Canadian Navy, and the Royal Canadian Air Force all played notable roles in the invasion.
As a country we can also take some comfort in the knowledge that the lessons learned during the disastrous Dieppe raid saved many lives on D-Day.
Canada suffered over 1,000 casualties on D-Day. The 5,400 Canadian graves in Normandy tell of the tough times that were to follow during the inland drive.
Mr. Speaker, 46 years ago the prospect of freedom came ashore in Normandy. Let us never forget those who were there for us on that day.


Mr. Speaker, in 1987 the Southam Literacy Survey found that 45 per cent of those 65 or older have low literacy skills.
Although this is a shocking figure, we learned last week that the problem is much more serious. Statistics Canada revealed that 65 per cent of older Canadians have only fair to poor literacy skills.
Illiterate seniors may not be able to understand the directions for taking their medication. They may be unable to find the right bus, or an important phone number in the telephone book, or be unable to manage their own bank accounts.
Illiterate seniors must rely on a network of friends and family for assistance. When the support network breaks down they may find themselves unable to cope with their daily survival, resulting in premature institutionalization.

June 6, 1990
Why this lack of literacy skills among older Canadians? Not because they are unable to learn, Mr. Speaker, but because existing literacy programs too often neglect the special needs of older learners.
We have a responsibility to our seniors to address their specific literacy needs. One Voice, The Seniors' Network, is developing a national literacy strategy for older Canadians to be completed by the fall.
I urge this Elouse to ensure the implementation of that strategy.


Mr. Speaker, to many of us, schizophrenia means little, but it is a very serious illness whose causes are insufficiently known, and it creates tremendous problems for its victims and their families.
It is an illness that many people do not understand and it is also frightening, and because of that, people are reluctant to get involved with those suffering from schizophrenia.
Last week, in my riding of Quebec-Est, I visited a new community agency founded by a woman directly concerned by the problem of mental illness, who works very hard to rehabilitate patients.
Le Pavois is, first of all, a psycho-social club where a person suffering from this disease can meet fellow sufferers. Together, under the skilfull direction of a social worker and three specialized group leaders provided under the federal government's Job Development Program, these people work to regain the self-confidence they have lost as a result of their illness, and they learn skills that will eventualy help them return to the labour market.
Mr. Speaker, this work deserves our admiration and should be supported in every way possible.


Mr. Speaker, the proposed goods and services tax will apply to public utilities commissions, thereby adding an additional 7 per cent on electricity bills. Canadians view electricity as a right and not just as a service. Electricity is as much a necessity as water, groceries, sewer services and garbage collection and, therefore, should not be taxed.
Public utilities commissions have predicted that the proposed goods and services tax, combined with their normal rate increases, will push electricity bills up by 15 per cent or more in 1991 in the riding of Kenora-Rainy River.
Consumers will already be faced with a barrage of increases as a result of the proposed goods and services tax. As a basic, necessary service, electricity should be exempt from the proposed GST. In fact, Mr. Speaker, the goods and services tax should be scrapped entirely.
I call on the government to scrap the proposed goods and services tax and if it refuses to do the honourable thing, then I would suggest that it identify electricity as a necessity of life and therefore exempt it from this inflationary tax.


Mr. Speaker, even as I speak Canada's Prime Minister and the 10 premiers are meeting in a last-ditch effort to resolve some of our constitutional differences. Most Canadians are conscious of the dangers that face our country should these 11 leaders fail in their task.
However, one of my constituents, Don Armstrong, Secretary-Treasurer of the Boissevain Legion, perhaps said it best when he in a recent open letter implored me to do my personal utmost "to halt the current trend toward the disintegration of Canada". He went on to state: "Stop those who are doing so from only thinking and talking in terms of deadlines, 'inevitable results' and 'regional realities'. Stop them from thinking in terms of re-election and party policies. Rather, publicly encourage the idea of Canada the nation, Canada the strong, united country, a world symbol of opportunity, bounty and tolerance."
In closing, I want to add my voice to those thousands of others who plead with those meeting just a few hundred yards away to remember that they must be Canadians first and politicians second. The future of Canada depends on those who lead today.
June 6, 1990


Mr. Speaker, this morning I had the opportunity to meet with members of the Canadian Dietetic Association which represents more than 4,500 dietitians dedicated to helping Canadians toward better health.
They are concerned that Canadians are faced with food insecurity through shortages and limitations of choice. The CDA made hunger a priority issue. Food banks are the best evidence of food shortages.
According to the report released yesterday by the Canadian Advisory Council on the Status of Women, there are 2.8 million adults, many single-parent families headed by women, and over one million Canadian children living in poverty in 1986.
The CDA points out that there is a lack of information regarding many different aspects of the nutritional value and food intakes of the poor.
There is a growing recognition of the role of nutrition in the promotion of health and treatment of disease. Limited access to food can have a detrimental effect on physical and mental health.
I urge this government to take immediate action to adopt and promote the goal of food security for all Canadians and to combat the growing feminization of poverty.


Mr. Speaker, on May 29, more than 1,200 people attended the annual benefit supper of Partage humanitaire. Established in 1971, this non-profit agency, the oldest local agency of its kind in Laval, focuses exclusively on senior citizens and the handicapped. Mrs. Pierrette Patenaude, member of the Laval executive committee, was one of the agency's most committed and energetic founding members. General manager of Partage humanitaire from 1982 to 1990, Mrs. Patenaude is now honorary chairman, leaving Mrs. Carmelle Lefebvre as general manager.
S. ft 31
The services of this agency, enjoyed by more than
1,000	people in 28 institutions, are provided by 16 group leaders and about 350 casual volunteer workers-that in a nutshell, represents Partage humanitaire and its community involvement during the past year.
I am proud to see that the federal government supports this outstanding humanitarian cause through its job development programs.
Thank you, Partage humanitaire, and our thanks you to all those who make it possible!


Mr. Speaker, I must voice my profound frustration with the actions of the Senate. Prior to 1984, there was only one incident of Senate obstruction. Since 1984, the Liberal-controlled Senate has blocked two supply bills, held up drug patent legislation, refugee legislation and a copyright bill.
More recently, the Senate has delayed the passage of the unemployment insurance bill for almost seven months. It has delayed the passage of Bill C-28 for close to six months. When the Senate received the GST bill, it decided to take a three week vacation. I have no doubt that with its return, active stalling will begin in earnest.
As part of the elected Parliament, I feel it impossible to fulfil my duties to my constituents when my attempts to carry out their wishes are continually frustrated by the other place. There must be Senate reform and it must come soon.


Spasibo, Mr. Speaker.
I rise to welcome the parliamentary delegation of the Supreme Soviet led by Rafik Nishanov, Chairman of the Soviet Nationalities of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
This visit is part of a regular exchange program between the Parliament of Canada and the Supreme Soviet. It follows the visit of last August to the Soviet

June 6, 1990
Oral Questions
Union by a Canadian parliamentary delegation led by the Speakers of the House of Commons and the Senate.
I am particularly pleased to welcome the delegation because, together with my colleagues on the House of Commons Standing Committee on External Affairs and International Trade, I visited Moscow, Leningrad and Kiev a month ago. During the course of that visit, the committee was treated with the greatest warmth and hospitality. Moreover, we found that our often probing questions and critical comments were responded to with openness and candour.
I think I can speak for all my colleagues in the House of Commons when I say that we applaud the new era of glasnost and perestroika in the Soviet Union. Moreover, we recognize the obligation to undertake the new thinking about relations between our two countries, the future of east-west relations and our common responsibility for the fate of the planet. Again, a warm welcome to the House of Commons and to Canada.


Mr. Speaker, we have a first for the corporate welfare bum of the week. A winner by acclamation. It is the privatized Route Canada, and its friends in the Conservative government. The Mulroney government sold the $100 million company for $29 million in 1986.
Route Canada was sold to Manfred Ruhland, the Road Warrior, and Dave and Paul Fingold, capitalists without capital. The cabinet knew that Mr. Ruhland was such a credit risk that he could not even get a credit card. The buyers of Route Canada never put up a penny of their own money. They just took out a mortgage on the land owned by the company. Soon after buying the company without spending a penny, Mr. Ruhland went on a spending spree, using Route Canada money to send his family to Austria and his mother's dogs to Italy.
The company went bankrupt 20 months after the sale. For throwing 1,900 people out of work, Route Canada is the corporate welfare bum of the week, with credit going to the federal cabinet.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance.
It was reported today in The Globe and Mail, "Report on Business" by Ken Romain that, "shackled by high interest rates which are biting deep, car sales by the North American manufacturers fell by 22 per cent" in the month of May, compared to a year ago. This is the fourth straight month that auto sales have declined.
Why will the Minister not recognize that the automotive industry, a key sector of our economy, is being seriously damaged by this government's economic policies? When will the minister bring in policies that will reverse this decline, rather than encourage it and make it worse?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member would do the country a greater service if he would point at what the true causes of the interest rate policy that we have been following are. That is the underlying cost pressure in the economy, as set out yesterday in a study from Wood Gundy, which is very consistent with the message that I have been making to the House through committees and speeches across the country. We must get our underlying cost structure under control.
I remind the hon. member that in 1989, our unit labour cost, which is the broadest measure of our competitive position, increased by 4.9 per cent at the beginning of the year and by 6.9 per cent at the end of the year. Throughout 1989, the American unit labour cost increase was 4.9 per cent and it was a good deal less in Japan and Germany.
These are the things we are faced with. We must get these competitive cost structures under control in order to save jobs in the country.


Mr. Speaker, this same Wood Gundy report pointed out that the government's high dollar policy is one of the key
June 6, 1990

reasons for any loss of competitiveness we are suffering. The government's own policy is causing the problem.
Auto makers like Bill Atkinson, vice-president of sales at GM Canada, are pointing the finger at the government's high interest rate policy. He said that "because of continued high interest rates, GM had expected a further softening of the market."
Othmar Stein of Chrysler Canada, said that interest rates and the softening economy are "spooking car buyers-Canadians are getting nervous, and they are hedging their bets."
Why does the Minister want to see automotive plants like Kelsey-Hayes in Windsor shutting down? When is he going to bring in economic policies that will create automotive jobs in Canada and not destroy them as his policies are doing right now?


Mr. Speaker, I want to take exception and correct what the hon. member said in the preamble to his question. He said that the primary reason is the increase in the Canadian dollar. That is not so. That is not what Wood Gundy said.
They point out that compensation per person/hour rose by 8.2 per cent last year, a 6.5 per cent point premium over productivity gains, and the growth gap widened noticeably in 1989. They point out that the gap between compensation and productivity has widened steadily since 1985.
Throughout this whole report, the focus is the cost increases, not the level of the Canadian dollar. They talk about an alarming loss of competitiveness. This continual higher cost growth in Canada has led to a dramatic decline in our competitiveness. For the business sector as a whole, Canada's advantage in U.S. dollar denominated unit labour costs has shrunk from nearly 20 per cent in 1986 to only 5 per cent in 1989. It is-


We can read.


The hon. member says he can read. I would hope that he would read and learn.


Oh, oh!


Hear, hear!
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, I quote from the Wood Gundy report:
The rise in the Canadian dollar has, of course, heightened even further the difficulty in which Canadian business now finds itself.
The minister wants to make the situation worse by the added cost to the economy of the GST.

Mr. Speaker, the government wants Canadians to believe that the economy is in good shape. However, our manufacturing sector has lost 70,000 jobs since January. Last year, our trade surplus fell by more than 50 per cent. Finally, during the first quarter, the bankruptcy rate rose by 29 per cent.
I have the following question for the Minister of Finance: When will he introduce economic policies that will boost the economy, not strangle it?


Mr. Speaker, if we listen very carefully to what the Leader of the Opposition said, he was drawing conclusions based on the symptoms of the problem. I do not question the symptoms of the problem. Our job as a government is to deal with the cause of the problem.


You are the cause of the problem.


Oh, oh!


The cause of the problem as set out very clearly by the Wood Gundy study is the growing loss of competitiveness in the Canadian economy. The loss of competitiveness is related directly to the increasing cost structure, primarily wages, in the Canadian manufacturing sectors.
Since 1986, manufacturing costs in Canada have risen 10 per cent faster than in the United States and Germany, and 20 per cent faster than in Japan. If we do not get these costs under control in Canada, we will suffer a further loss.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister, as my leader did yesterday, to keep us and the nation informed of devel-

June 6, 1990
Oral Questions
opments at the Conference Centre with respect to the constitutional question.


Mr. Speaker, as I indicated yesterday, and as was indicated by all first ministers coming out of their sessions yesterday, there has been some progress on a number of issues. There still remain a number of difficult issues to be undertaken. While there has been progress on some individual items, it is such that, until such time as there is a broad agreement on the package, the deal will not be consummated.
The report I received just before coming into the House is that the work is ongoing, the mood is excellent, and the First Ministers are working hard. It is hoped progress can continue today. At an appropriate time, when all the issues can be agreed upon and a package consummated, hopefully we will then be able to accept the good news. That is our hope.


Mr. Speaker, fully understanding the reservations that the Deputy Prime Minister has and the reasons for them, I want to ask if he can nevertheless give some details about any agreements which may have been reached about the possible composition of a reformed, elected Senate?


Mr. Speaker, I can only refer to the statements made in the press which I believe are a fair reflection. It would be inappropriate for me to comment on any one specific or given issue because I think it is fair to say that, until such time as there is agreement on a broad range of issues, all First Ministers are not prepared to sign any package.
While I would like to be as helpful as I possibly can, I think the hon. member will realize the dynamics of the discussions are such that things change minute by minute. But, I repeat, there is a very firm and strong commitment in that room to put the unity of the nation first. The negotiations are going very well. They are working very hard and I am confident, given the mood I discern, that there will be a successful outcome. I am
sure that is a view shared by all hon. members of the House.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. Yesterday, the minister said "we must all fight inflation by reducing underlying cost pressures that push up prices. The greatest of these pressures by far is wage costs".
Why is the minister attacking wage costs, which actually fell in real terms by 3.4 per cent over the 1980s, instead of going after bonus increases of $40,000 to $80,000 to senior executives in crown corporations such as CN or instead of attacking Governor Crow's increase of $40,000 to $93,000? Is it right that the rich get so much richer and the poor, the working people of the country, get hammered again and again?


Mr. Speaker, I want to draw to the hon. member's attention the level of salary increases throughout the Public Service. The broad averages have been 4 per cent to 4.2 per cent, as well as in the senior levels of the Public Service, the deputy minister level. Ministers and members of Parliament have had salary increases of 1 per cent less than the inflation rate during the last seven, eight, or nine-year period. The federal government itself, I believe, has shown very clear leadership in the battle against inflation.
The hon. member has referred to certain Crown corporations. He knows quite well that the rules for increase in remuneration of Crown corporations are related to the comparability of the senior employees of those crown corporations to the private sector. They are subject to review by an appointed advisory committee that has been in place for the last eight or ten years. I believe this is a legitimate way of arriving at salary levels of senior executives of crown corporations.


Mr. Speaker, that is precisely the point. If we look, for instance, at a recent study by Towers Perrin of top executives throughout the world, we see that, in fact, Canadian top
June 6, 1990

executives are the second highest paid throughout the world with an average salary of over $400,000 per year.

I want to ask the minister whether he thinks it is fair to put the blame on Canadian workers, when such high salary increases are being given to people in the top jobs in this country. I think the minister will agree this is not fair.


Mr. Speaker, I am not attacking Canadian workers. What I am pointing out to all Canadians is that if we allow our cost structure as a country to get out of line in relation to our main competing trading partners, then it will cost us business-business in the export markets and in competing against imports.
I am only making this point to draw to the attention of Canadians that if our competitive position gets out of line, we will lose business, and as we lose business we will lose jobs.
It is in the interests of all Canadians to contribute to getting our cost structure in line with our competitors so that we can have a healthy outlook for our economy, create more jobs, create a better standard of living and create a better way of life for Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary. Why doesn't the Minister of Finance object to the salary increases paid executives like the President of Bell Canada Enterprises, who got a 9 per cent increase, or $100, 000 per year, and the President of Alcan, David Morton, who got a 15 per cent increase or $152,000? Why do workers always get the short end of the stick?


Mr. Speaker, I think if the hon. member had listened carefully to what I said, he would understand that I have been talking about the over-all cost structure. That includes wages, salaries, the salaries of people at senior levels in these corporations, as well as pricing policies.
Oral Questions
It is important in all elements of the cost structure of the economy that we take into account the fact that over the last two or three years we have become less and less competitive. Until we get that competitive position in line with our major competition, we are going to suffer as a country because of the fact that we will be losing jobs and business. That is certainly not in the interests of any Canadian.


My question directed is to the Deputy Prime Minister.
Before he was given Route Canada by the government, Manfred Ruhland did not have the financial stability to get a credit card. Yet, after he was given Route Canada by the government, within a week he took his family on a $17,500 vacation to Austria, paid for by Route Canada. Following soon thereafter were more vacations, expensive cars, two boats and a $3.5 million plane, all paid for by Route Canada.
Why did the government give Route Canada to Manfred Ruhland when it should have known that by doing so these abuses would occur?


Mr. Speaker, that is straight out of The Toronto Star, and my hon. friend knows it.
He knows that the assets were sold by CN after an investigation of the financial abilities of the Fingold brothers. That is also in the records, if he wants to check.
There was no gift, none whatsoever. It was sold as a going concern to the Fingold brothers. That is exactly the way it happened. Any other suggestion is absolutely incorrect, and my friend knows it.


Mr. Speaker, Manfred Ruhland talked to the government a month and a half before the Fingold's came into the picture. The government did a credit check on Manfred Ruhland before the sale. The government passed an Order in Council approving the sale.


Shame!


CN did not put this deal together, the government did. CN did not even know that Manfred Ruhland was involved.

June 6, 1990
Oral Questions
Why does the government say that the employees of Route Canada who lost their jobs-and many of whom lost their homes, their trucks and their futures, not to mention the taxpayers of Canada-have no right to know why the government gave this company to Manfred Ruhland?


Mr. Speaker, the government sold assets with a market value of about $50 million to $55 million, and received $29 million for them. Those assets were producing a grand loss per year of $30 million to $40 million. You can only do that for so long before you run out of taxpayers' money.
Therefore it was sold by CN as a going concern to a company formed by the Fingold Brothers in an effort to make those jobs continue. The jobs did not. They went bankrupt, and that is a fact.
My hon. friend knows the matter is being investigated by the RCMR I am sure the allegations that he made earlier will be investigated by the RCMR When the report is finished action will be taken, if there is action to be taken.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the same minister.
The employees of Route Canada relied on the integrity not only of the president of CNR but their employer, CNR, the largest Crown corporation in Canada. They relied on the integrity of the cabinet for fairness. They relied on this government which has a positive duty to each employee affected by this aborted transaction.
When will the government acknowledge its responsibility to the employees of Route Canada, reinstate them to their former employment, pay those employees their back wages and bring back the pension benefits which most of them have lost?


Mr. Speaker, now I know why my hon. friend got out of business and went into law.
You can only lose $30 million to $40 million a year for so long, especially if your asset base is only worth $55 million. It was worth $55 million. We got $29 million for it, giving those employees an opportunity to continue working.
The company went bankrupt. Unfortunately, those are the facts of life. If my friend has any other information to bring to bear on the matter, he should phone the RCMP and give them that information.


Mr. Speaker, just to answer my friend, sometimes I wonder why I got out of business and went into law.
This transaction is truly a fraud on the Canadian taxpayer. Mr. Ruhland brought no cash to the table. He walked away with a $100 million company. In 20 months he destroyed a $100 million company by buying boats, airplanes and first class trips around the world. To add insult to injury, his mother's dog, whose name is Garci, is treated better than the employees of the company.
When will the minister take it upon himself to look after the employees who are affected by this aborted transaction?


The government is going to the dogs.


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend knows that if anything was going to the dogs it was a company losing $30 million to $40 million a year. The taxpayers do not have that kind of money.
The Liberals used to think they had that kind of money. They used to think they would make it up on volume. But that does not happen any more. That is why we sold the assets.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans.
Mike Hunter, representing the processing industry of B.C., told the fisheries committee yesterday that the disastrous effects of the Canada sell-out of the west coast salmon and herring on the altar of free trade are just beginning to be felt.
Does the minister agree that the B.C. processors reflect the reality of the free trade ruling, namely, that the future of the industry has been thrown into serious compromise?
Hon. Bernard Valcourt (Minister of Fisheries and
Oceans): No, Mr. Speaker, I do not agree.


Mr. Speaker, the minister does not agree but the Prime Minister does. The Prime Minister, speaking at a press conference on February 23, 1990, said: "We want to do everything we possibly can to help the British Columbia fishery".
Can the minister give us any details, such as dates of implementation, estimated costs, nature of programs, with respect to the salvation promised by the Prime Minister just three months ago?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member must be pleased to see this council coming to Ottawa complaining that money should be thrown at the problem because money is being thrown at the problem everywhere.
The reality is that this ruling to which the hon. member refers under the free trade agreement reached between Canada and the United States forces not one fisherman-not one-in B.C. to sell to the Americans. Do not forget this.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice.
Evidence is piling up in the David Milgaard case. There is mounting evidence that there was a terrible miscarriage of justice when Milgaard was sentenced for murder 20 years ago.
A second forensic report, this time from the chief medical examiner of Manitoba, seriously questions the only physical evidence that linked Milgaard to the crime. Yet all we get from the Department of Justice is foot dragging and silence.
When is this minister going to take her responsibility seriously and decide what she is going to do about David Milgaard?


Mr. Speaker, it is hard not to be cross with the hon. member-


Oh, oh!
Oral Questions


-who has questioned me on this issue at great length before the standing committee, and who has been given an explanation as to why it has taken some time for the Department of Justice to deal with this.
He knows perfectly well that that delay results not from delays in the Department of Justice but from the applicant himself, whose counsel has brought forward continuing pieces of new information that he wishes to have considered on behalf of his client.
I think it would be extremely negligent of the Department of Justice to rush this process and to tell Mr. Milgaard's counsel that there is an arbitrary deadline beyond which he may not bring new evidence forward to be considered.
In May of this year the applicant retained the services of Manitoba's chief medical examiner to provide a report on a previous forensic report that had been commissioned. That report has now been received by the Department of Justice. It is being reviewed and will be part of the considerations on which I will make my decision.
If Mr. Milgaard's counsel comes forward with more information, I am prepared to wait until I can consider that as well so that he may have the fairest possible hearing based on the fullest possible information that he can provide to us.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the Solicitor General.
For 20 years Milgaard has denied consistently his guilt. For that he has paid a high price. He has been denied parole-no confession, no parole. Just today, he was scheduled to appear before the Parole Board.
Given the unique aspects of this case and given the fact that there is a possibility of a wrongful conviction, would the Solicitor General be prepared to recommend a full parole for Milgaard?


Mr. Speaker, I think my colleague the Minister of Justice, has just indicated that she is looking into the question, awaiting further information apparently from Mr. Milgaard's counsel. Therefore, I think it is being handled in the appropriate way by the Department of Justice.

Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of State (Seniors) and concerns the freeze on the New Horizons Program.
Last Friday, in response to my question, the deputy leader of the government denied there was a freeze.
The Minister of State (Seniors) told the Standing Committee on May 22 that one-quarter of the funds allocated had been withheld. Who is telling the truth?


Mr. Speaker, one thing is certain: programs for seniors are being maintained. You read the Estimates, and you know this year's budget is the same as last year's.
What we must not forget, here in the House, is that the New Horizons Program has been in existence for several years. We are now in the process of evaluating the program, and we have withheld $4 million so that during this year, we will be able to introduce new initiatives following the results of our evaluation which we intend to submit in the next few months.


Mr. Speaker, it appears, contrary to what we were told on Friday, that there is in fact a freeze of $4 million of that program. I would like to restate my questions from Friday and try to get an answer from the government.
Will the minister tell us when the review will be completed? When will the frozen funds be released? When will the review's findings be made public, or will they be made public?


Mr. Speaker, we are in the process of consulting seniors to make sure that the programs meet the needs exactly. We say that funds are available to seniors and we have an office that answers all calls. Once the evaluation is done, I will be very pleased as minister responsible for seniors
to let you know our recommendations and, if there is room for new initiatives, to implement them.


I wish to draw to the attention of members the presence in the gallery of Mr. Rafik Nishanov, Chairman of the Soviet of Nationalities of the U.S.S.R. Supreme Soviet.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. It has to do with the question of Transport Route Canada.
I want to say to the minister that what we are debating here is not the wisdom in the first place of the privatization but the question of the relationship of trust between Canadians and a government which sets a certain series of events in motion.
The government cannot deny that it was as a result of its policy that these workers were turned over to a particular series of events that resulted in them losing their jobs, their pensions and their benefits.
I want to ask the minister this. Does he not see the dimension of elementary justice involved in this issue? Does he not see the obscenity of what has happened to these people as a result of the events which this government set in motion? Will he not at least give a commitment to these people that at the appropriate time the government will make good what these people lost as a result of its policy?


Mr. Speaker, CN was losing some $30 million to $40 million a year on this proposition. It felt that with the refinancing brought to the company by the Fingold brothers, and some reorganization, that the company would have the ability to turn things around. Unfortunately, that did not happen.
Everyone in this House regrets the fact that those jobs were lost. The question is whether or not there is any responsibility on CN. CN sold the company, sold the assets. The taxpayer was thus relieved of a burden of a
June 6, 1990

loss of $30 million to $40 million a year. Unfortunately, as things turned out, it was not possible to make a profit and the company went bankrupt.
If there are any illegalities, they will be taken into account, I am sure, by the Superintendent of Bankruptcy and the RCMP in the course of their investigation.


Mr. Speaker, I ask the minister if he recalls occasions on which he has risen in this House and made the distinction between a legal responsibility and a moral responsibility. What we are claiming here and what we are asking the minister to recognize is that the government, through CN has a moral responsibility to the people who lost their jobs as a result of this very, very botched privatization.
The very least the government could do would be to make a commitment, as I asked the minister before, at the appropriate time, whenever he feels that the investigation has gone far enough, to make good what these people have lost as a result of a train of events that this government, and not only CN, through its privatization plans set in motion.


Mr. Speaker, CN sold these assets with the expectation that with the refinancing and with the effort that the Fingold brothers said they would put into it that the jobs would continue. After all, these assets were bringing a loss of $30 million to $40 million a year. They felt it could be turned around. Unfortunately, it was not turned around. I am sure they made an effort to turn it around.
I am sorry, but CN's responsibility was terminated when it sold the assets to somebody who tried to make a go of it. Businesses succeed and fail every day in this country. This, unfortunately, is one that failed. We all regret that. I am sure CN does, too.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Communications. It deals with the outrageous and ill-conceived radio licensing fees that he has imposed on municipalities and emergency services right across Canada.
Oral Questions
There are literally thousands of volunteer and municipally-operated fire departments that simply cannot afford these fee increases, and in some cases they will either have to decrease service or put off the acquisition of much-needed emergency vehicles.
Is the minister prepared today to respond to this issue which could affect public safety and announce that fire departments and other emergency services will be fully exempted from these fee increases?


Mr. Speaker, I am surprised to be asked that question today because it has been public knowledge for months. I recently had the opportunity to meet the leaders of the Canadian Municipal Association and they agreed it is normal for all governments to share equitably in both spectrum management and the public costs of its operation, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the same minister.
The issue has not been before the public for only a matter of months. The issue, indeed, has been before the public for a matter of years.
I would like to quote from December 1, 1986, the previous Minister of Communications, the Hon. Flora MacDonald, who said in the House of Commons in reference to Bill C-3: "The changes as they affect municipalities and volunteer fire departments will not be proceeded with".
Why has the current minister broken this government's stated commitment to exempt all fire departments from the Bill C-3 schedule of fees? Will he now finally see that the reasons for which fire departments were exempted in 1986 are equally valid today in 1990?


Mr. Speaker, quite simply, we agreed that there should be some equity among users of the frequency spectrum and governments, be they departments of the federal or provincial governments or even municipalities.

Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance.
The GST advertising campaign is extremely confusing and misleading to Canadians. Since last fall the government has embarked on an $11 million advertising campaign, a campaign that has been filled with inaccurate and incorrect information because of change after change.
Now, new brochures, and millions more must be spent, to attempt to correct the information already sent out to the Canadian public.
How much more money is being spent on this advertising propaganda program?


Mr. Speaker, I take exception to the description the hon. member uses.
I have received a lot of very good comments from people-


Oh, oh!


-who have received the most recent tabloid which responds to specific questions, questions that we have monitored on the phone lines, the 1-800 numbers. We have had somewhere around 250,000 to 300,000 calls.
We have taken the calls that have come from those 1-800 numbers and put the answers to the questions these Canadians have asked us in a tabloid which cost, I think, less than 10 cents a copy.
These questions respond specifically to what Canadians are interested in knowing, information that they have been asking for about the goods and services tax.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the same minister.
The tax went from 9 per cent to 7 per cent. There has been a total change in small business advertising.
Will the minister promise that they will get their act together here today, stop wasting money on propaganda campaigns, inform the Canadian people properly or take the tax back?


Mr. Speaker, I do not understand the language that the hon. member has used.
The tabloid that we have just sent around to some 10 million Canadian homes responds specifically to questions that have been asked of us again and again through the 1-800 number, the information number. The responses that have been given are straight, direct responses. They are not propaganda in any form. They are specific responses to questions that have been asked by
250,000	Canadians.
The responses that I have had as a result of this tabloid have been very good. People have said: "That is exactly the information that we want to hear about the goods and services tax".


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture.
Yesterday when the Deputy Minister of Agriculture appeared before the agriculture committee, he informed us that the fur component in the $500 million Supplementary Estimate is to be aimed at fur farmers and that fur trappers will not qualify for assistance to counteract the 50 per cent decline in fur prices due in part to the European boycott.
Will the minister reconsider this decision and include trappers who have also suffered from the price decline and have traps, vehicles, cabins and other equipment to pay for and maintain, as well as families to support?


Why not talk to Greenpeace? They ruined the bloody trade.


Are you supporting sealing now?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member knows that this assistance package is one that was designed with the help and support of the provincial governments. It was in that context that the program was put together.
The funds will be distributed by the provinces. They are closest to the scene and in the best position to design the program in the most effective way so that it is targeted to the area that is in most need.
June 6, 1990

I will certainly take the hon. member's question as a representation and raise it with the provincial counterparts. If there is a disposition on their part to provide the assistance in that manner, I will certainly make that representation on the hon. member's behalf.


Mr. Speaker, since trappers have recently had to invest in heavier equipment, heavier traps to meet the humane component of consumer demand, and since they are suffering from virtually the same negative income that Saskatchewan farmers are suffering, will the minister change the federal component of the program and make it available to fur trappers, which is not now the case, so that the provinces can pick up on that?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member should know that it was through the provincial representation on behalf of the fur industry that the federal government responded.
As I said, I will certainly take his question as a representation. But we felt that because they were closest to the scene and identified the area of need we, in a generous fashion, responded, which this federal government has done in the past.
We can only hope and trust that the provinces will design their program in such a way that the industry that is affected in all its elements will be supported by the results of our joint efforts.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Communications.
Can the minister tell us if he is going to support the vote as proposed by the chairman of the finance committee to cut the budget of the National Gallery of Canada by $1.8 million?


Mr. Speaker, that is a very good question, and there is going to be a lot of debate and a lot of anxiety. I hope the hon. member will be here this evening to see the last instalment of this drama!
Privilege


I have a request from the hon. member for Megantic-Compton-Stanstead to raise a question of privilege.


Mr. Speaker, at noon I went to the Conference Centre where the First Ministers' meeting on the constitutional question is being held. I was denied the necessary accreditation to enter the building, unlike over 100 reporters from across the country, members of provincial legislatures, and leaders of provincial parties, including opposition leaders like Mrs. Carstairs and Mr. Doer. Members of the House of Commons were also there. I asked why I, as a member, could not go in. I was told it was since I had not been a member of the Charest Committee and was not on the list of a recognized party, either the government party or one of the opposition parties.
I know other members who were denied the same accreditation. Mr. Speaker, this is obviously a very important conference, and I wanted to express my objections to the fact that this important question is being discussed behind closed doors. Quebec's return to the constitutional fold will not only be without honour and enthusiasm-but they are now trying to do it in secret.
Mr. Speaker, my rights and privileges as a member of this House have been breached. Surely, a member of the House of Commons has the right to be admitted as an observer to the Conference Centre, as much, if not more, so than the people representing the media.


Mr. Speaker, I believe the hon. member has raised a very important question of privilege. I hope the Chair will, as usual, give it prompt consideration, as it has always done in the past.
I do not agree with everything my colleague said, but if there is one thing that must be perfectly clear it is that there can be no difference between members, whatever their political affiliation, whether it be an official party or not. When the Chair considers this very important question, and there may be other precedents, I hope it will take all the time required to do so. My colleagues

June 6, 1990
Privilege
and I will listen very attentively to the Chair's ruling on this question of privilege.
I must say that I was not aware of the situation, but I immediately and instinctively thought that we do not make distinctions between members of the House in matters such as this one.


Mr. Speaker, to be very brief on this issue, I am not aware of the details and certainly would want to have more information before being absolutely definitive.
It is the nature of these kinds of situations that there is limited space and limited ability for people to observe. In this case, of course, we are talking about a conference that is closed and there is no opportunity for anybody to participate.
The way we have handled that is to have representation from the parties in the House based on the proportion of their membership in the House, rather the same way we do with any delegated operation in the House, be it a committee and so on.
We have always had a problem on how to deal with Independents. The question is one of wanting to be fair to Independents but by the same token recognizing that it would be equally inappropriate to give Independents an opportunity not available to every member. If you open things up to every member, is it possible to have some delegation from this institution as opposed to everyone in the institution participate?
Without knowing the details of what is involved, I would humbly suggest that it might be something like that. Certainly, I will undertake on behalf of my party to examine and ensure that there was no overt attempt to exclude anybody by virtue of them not being a member of an established party in the House. That, I am quite certain, is not the intent, but I will look into it and inform the Chair if I find out differently.


Mr. Speaker, I want to support the question of privilege raised by the member for Megantic-Compton-Stanstead.
I believe that members elected to the House of Commons are here to represent their constituents, and they all have the same rights whether or not they belong to a political party.
I think it is inconceivable that a member sitting as an independent should be subjected to flagrant discrimination. Mr. Speaker, I hope you will take these points under consideration. I know you have excellent judgment and I hope you will respond to the questidh of privilege raised by the hon. member for Megantic- Compton-Stanstead.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to support the position of the member for Megantic-Compton-Stanstead although I have, as a member of the Charest Committee, been accredited for the congress.
We were 15 members on the Charest Committee, but the issues we dealt with concern all the hon. members of this House. Of course, the independant members were not appointed by the three parties as members of the Committee.
That is why, Mr. Speaker, and also because of the fact that there are so many people from the media and so many provincial members and because of the importance of this issue affecting not only the members of Parliament from the province of Quebec but all Canadians, I hope that the Chair and the government House leader will consult each other and give their support to the position of the member for Megantic-Compton- Stanstead.


Mr. Speaker, I do not want to repeat comments made by other members on the matter of principle and privilege, but what is important in this particular instance is the fact that access to the meetings may become an issue which detracts from the debate itself that is taking place.
If the member feels that he was denied access, that indeed could be misinterpreted by the Canadian public in terms of access to process, which is already a question relative to the accord itself.
I urge that the member and any member who wishes, as a duly elected member of this Chamber, to be present at any meetings that are open to any elected person be given absolute access