That, in the opinion of this House, the government should reinstate core funding for women's centres, to enable those centres to continue to provide essential information, referral and support services to women.
She said: Madam Speaker, this is a very important motion on a very important issue. The devastation to women's centres by this latest budget cut really speaks to not only a lack of fiscal support for women's centres but a concerted political effort on the part of this government to silence the voice of dissent of women across Canada.
Women's centres grew out of the recommendations of the 1970 Royal Commission on the Status of Women. That royal commission spoke of the real inequality that women faced in our country. The recommendations of the royal commission were being implemented gradually, painfully slowly, across Canada. Women's centres were playing a significant role in this process.
Women's centres are necessary. Some of the services that they provide include services for battered women who do not know where to turn, where the nearest shelter is, or how to get there, or even which lawyers they would best talk to. Women's centres provide that information and sometimes they are adjacent to the very services which a battered woman would require.
Teenage women get information regarding sexuality or sexually transmitted diseases and the location of supportive health centres. Women's centres provide that information. There are homeless women right here in Ottawa. The Women's Place in Ottawa has operated as a drop-in centre for homeless women on weekends because there was a gap in social services provided by municipal and other services.
The centres can tell jobless women, newly divorced women, young women, or older women who may not know where to start looking for a job what job programs are available for them and can provide counselling.
Centres inform mothers and parents what child care facilities are available in a community; they advise immigrant and visible minority women what programs are available to them, what organizations can help them.
Women's centres can help sexually harassed women and those who are discriminated against at work, by telling them what the law says, and explaining their rights. Many have a list of lawyers who can help them.
All women and men in a community can use the resources of a women's centre. They provide public information and public education on women's issues. They speak out on matters affecting women.
With these latest cuts, 100 per cent of their core funding, these services are going to be at least drastically reduced if not eliminated completely in some cases. That is going to have a very negative impact for the kind of work we have tried to do over the years to implement the recommendations of that Royal commission report.
For example, in Whitehorse, cuts to women's and to native organizations' funding means a cut to 80 per cent of the voluntary organizations in the Yukon. This is a pattern that has evolved over time.
The Secretary of State's women's program was cut in the 1989-90 budget by $2 million. In the last budget it was cut by a further $1.6 million.

April 6, 1990
Supply
At the same time, the argument is that we have to address our deficit. I think there is no one in this House who is going to deny that the deficit has to be addressed and reduced, but the debate is about the way in which that is being done.
In this same budget that reduced the core funding for over 75 women's centres by 100 per cent, there were increases as well. There was an increase to the budget for CSIS in the amount of $33 million. There were also $14 million allocated for advertising for the GST. We can see where the priorities of the government are. When you consider $33 million for CSIS and $14 million for advertising for the GST, $1.6 million is a very small amount, and one wonders how credible the argument is that this is a cut that is necessary to reduce the deficit.
It is also very interesting that it comes at a time when this government has been spoken to very forcefully by the women of Canada in their opposition to the initiatives under Bill C-43, the recriminalization of abortion. I do not believe that it is just a coincidence.
I think there is a political agenda that is being followed here. The voices of women from those women's centres and their ability to do organizing in communities has been profoundly limited by these budget cuts. What is happening now is that those women's centres are now having to redirect their energies by fundraising, in order to keep their centres open and in order to do project analyses and write up project proposals.
Having been the Chair of the board of our local women's centre in Victoria, I know the kind of energy that has to be put into that paperwork. The staff of those women's centres are often paid very little. They are dependent upon volunteer work as well. I know the staff of our women's centre in Victoria was paid about $22,000 a year, which is probably the national average.
One does not work in those centres in order to get rich. One works there because of the hope that ultimately the recommendations from the Royal commission's report of 1970 will come to fruition and that there will be real equality for women in Canada. Those women staffers, right from Victoria to Newfoundland, are committed women who are doing the government's work at a very low wage. They are doing it with commitment and passion. It is a very effective way of trying to implement what the government itself has set out. So, again the
argument that the cut of the $1.6 million is a deficit reduction initiative falls flat.
There is another agenda here. The agenda is to silence women, but I can tell you that women will not be silenced. We have seen, throughout the week, the initiatives of women who will not be silenced. We have seen them from Newfoundland to Port Alberni and to the north.
The 100 per cent cut to core funding for the women's resource centre in Whitehorse, in the Yukon, means that that centre will have to close its doors. The closest women's centre, if that is closed, is in Port Coquitlam, British Columbia. Is that what the government means by alternatives?
What are we going to do? Are we to pay air fare for women to come and consult? Are we to pay long distance phone charges? No.
The reason that these funds are being reduced is to silence women, and women will not be silenced. It fits in with this government's agenda to silence the poor of Canada. The poor will not be silenced.
My colleague from Mission-Coquitlam, in her duty as social policy critic, has met with a number of low income women and low income men who are dependent on social services. These are the kinds of people we should be looking after.
It really speaks about the role of government when we talk about cuts to women's programs. Who are we supposed to be helping through our taxation system? Is it the people that are already doing well enough? The government seems to think so. The cuts to women's centres, native centres and other initiatives can make the government uncomfortable. I think it is a quite blatant political act to keep them quiet.
I would like to turn to the effect of the closure of centres. In British Columbia the following women's centres are about to close: the women's centres in Chetwynd, Fort St. John, Howe Sound, Kelowna, Penticton, Port Alberni, and Kitimat.
We have asked repeatedly to meet with the minister responsible, the Secretary of State. He has sent officials with no power to make changes to the funding situation. These officials further angered the women, and I think the minister responsible has also incurred their wrath. Last Monday, the women members of our caucus sent a
April 6, 1990

letter to the minister asking for a meeting at his convenience. We have not received a response.
This is an urgent situation, and that is why we are using this opposition day to put forth this motion. I think it is a black mark on this government if it feels it can get away with this, and there will be continuing civil disobedience if it is to continue.
We should also focus on the fact that the government's international reputation will be sullied by this action. The government is breaking international treaties by this initiative. Canada has signed the UN convention for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. The government has also gone along with the Nairobi forward looking strategies.
Canada cannot say one thing in international fora and another thing at home. We are talking about $1.6 million dollars, a piddling amount when we consider some of the other initiatives that have been increased by this government in what is being applauded as a deficit reducing budget. Canadians are not fooled at all.
In responding to questions on the committee for the elimination of discrimination against women about the country's success in combating discrimination against women, the permanent representation of Canada at the United Nations explained that it was the strength of the Canadian feminist movement and the commitment of Canada's leaders to the equal rights for women. How does eliminating the core funding for women's centres demonstrate the commitment to equal rights for women? There may be some painful logic, and I am willing to listen to it today.
The women's movement is constantly undermined by funding cuts and the refusal by government to meet with the National Action Committee on the Status of Women, Canada's largest women's lobby group, made up of over 600 women's organizations. Not only has this budget cut $1.6 million from women's centres funding, it has also cut funds available to feminist publications. I think that is also a concerted effort to reduce the ability of those publications to work effectively and to bring the women's agenda to light. There is a concerted attack on women's equality through those reductions. I remind the
Supply
House that this is a cut of $1.6 million, compared to a $33 million increase for the budget of CSIS.
That comparison alone speaks to the government's agenda, of this government's priority, and of its lack of commitment to promoting the equality of women. It is a black day if this government continues with this initiative. I hope the minister responsible will go back to his cabinet colleagues. I also hope the Minister responsible for the Status of Women will carry out her responsibilities for the status of women and will ask her cabinet colleagues, as my motion indicates, that the funds be reinstated for those women's centres so that the women of Canada, from Newfoundland to British Columbia, to Yukon, to Yellowknife, will be able to do their work as they have done in a a very efficient, effective, low cost and committed way.


Madam Speaker, I am very pleased to have an opportunity to say a few words today concerning women's centres in relation to comments that the hon. member for Saanich-Gulf Islands has made.
Some 10 years ago in Scarborough we set up a women's centre. I was a member of the board founding that centre. It was very important to establish the centre in order to reach out to women who are having difficulty so that we could as sisters help them. In the process of setting up that women's centre we looked for funds. We spent a lot of time around the table filling in those applications, getting the right words in order that the funding would become available, but at no time did we believe 10 years ago that our sole funding for women's centres was to be from the federal government.
At that time we were looking to foundations, to the community, and to fund raising events to see how we could have funding from various levels. I am very pleased today, thanks to two very wonderful individuals in Scarborough, Nina Willcocks and Linda Davis, who have diversified this funding so that now there is very little funding from various levels of government in order to provide services for social justice and economic equality for the women in Scarborough.

April 6, 1990
Supply
I have a question and comment. The hon. member speaks about funding cuts. Let us look at some of the numbers. In 1984-85, the year just before the Conservative Party took over the government, the funding was about $8 million for women's programs under Secretary of State. There has been a tremendous increase in that funding. In 1988-89 it was $13 million.
The commitment demonstrated by a number of women within our own party in order to increase funding dramatically over the last six years is a great credit to the government and these women. Many have benefited from those programs.
I think that it is time that we started setting some of the record straight in terms of the advantages we have been able to provide for /omen, such as jobs and the number of women who have been able to establish their own businesses. Two-thirds of the businesses in Canada started in the last six years have been started by women.
I wanted to set the record straight. I look forward to doing so as we progress through this debate.


Madam Speaker, it is a very good idea to set the record straight. Let me begin my remarks by setting the record straight regarding the 1990-91 commitment for women. The women's program has been cut to $9 million from $13 million. We are back nearly to 1984-85 levels. When we take inflation into account, that shows the real commitment to women's centres.
We should really address what the government is trying to do by having women focus on fund raising. Every minute used to raise funds is a minute taken away from organizing and creating real change in Canada. Do not think that women are fooled. They are not.


I would like to direct a question to my colleague. How does she explain to the people at women centres that there is no money from the federal government, while at the same time it can find $16 million to spend on a GST that is going to be detrimental to women and their families and is not supported by 80 per cent of Canadian population? Since the funding for women's centres is obviously supported by the vast majority of Canadian women and men, how
does she explain to women this tremendous contradiction in the Tory government policy?


I think the women and men of Canada have seen through the pained logic that this is going to assist in reducing the deficit and have seen that this is a concerted political act to silence women. I do not try to explain the kind of logic that will allow for $14 million in advertising for the GST, which as my colleague points out is going to be hurting the very women and men the centres are trying to assist.
The redistributive capacity of our tax system is at stake here. We are talking about what the government should be doing with our money and the kind of initiatives that this government has undertaken since it gained office again in 1988. It has spoken very clearly about the kind of direction it believes it should take.
The women and the women's centres have voiced very clearly their opposition to the government's agenda. I think that is one of the reasons for this latest round of cuts. The government is using these cuts to silence women.


Madam Speaker, I happen to be the member of Parliament for the riding of Mission-Coquitlam where the Port Coquitlam women's centre is located. To set the record straight, I would like to tell hon. members that 100 per cent of funding is not expected by that woman's centre or any other women's centre from this government.
I would like to ask hon. members in this House to consider information about the monetary value of the volunteer time put into women's centres.
The volunteer time amounts to 2,700 hours. If we multiply that by $10.50 an hour, which is the average hourly wage paid to counsellors across the country, we see it equals $28,350. That is how much our collective time as women is worth.
If we multiply the $28,350 figure by the 33 women's centres in British Columbia we get $935,550, almost double what it would cost to keep these centres open.
In setting the record straight, we have to remember that women are putting in $935,550 for centres that
April 6, 1990

service 231,000 women in British Columbia. I would say that is dam good value for any dollar the government puts forward.


Madam Speaker, I am particularly pleased that parliamentarians have an opportunity today to reflect on the contributions that women have been making to this country. Indeed, I am pleased to be examining what progress we have been making in terms of equal opportunity and equal access that almost all of us have made the cause of our lives.
This particular day will certainly mark for all of us the beginning of a renewed opportunity to stop marginalizing and trivializing the very, very important activities that have been so instrumental in providing women with the opportunity to gain equality and social justice. Programs have been advocating that. They have been helping to provide the services that have been very essential. I have been very quick to note the effectiveness of those very programs.
Today the opposition day is focusing on core funding. The motion states that the government should reinstate core funding. I am not sure there are three people in the country, outside certain people inside the ministry itself, who understand what core funding or sustaining funding is all about.


You tell them, Gerry.


What is clearly at stake is whether any expenses dealing with administrative overhead, such as rent and lights, can be included as admissible expenses. If you want to call it core, you can call it core. You can call it project or program. What we have indicated in a very open manner is that the criteria that are established are flexible enough to allow many of those expenses as admissible expenses under the program or project funding.
The question is not whether it can be described as core funding, because some groups receive core funding and some women's centres do not. In the Province of Quebec there are some 78 women's centres, 39 of them had received some sustaining funding, the other 39 did not. I might add that there are more women's centres that do not receive any federal funding compared to those that do.
Supply
It always hurts when trying to administer a program to have a little less. This particular area, at the moment, has a little less. But this should not minimize the government's commitment to bring forward a strong cross-government commitment in terms of every single ministry, in terms of every single department, in making sure that once and for all this country is a full and equal opportunity society.
We will have an opportunity today to review all of the government's programming in the women's areas, so that we can set the record straight.


Oh, oh!


You mean you're going to start to admit to some of the blunders?


I hear a lot of snickers, but snickers from that party which trivialized the women of the nation in terms of its programs and commitments-


Who started the programs?


We have a record not just in terms of appointment, but in terms of full participation that is the envy of anybody sitting on the other side of the House. You have no reason to snicker.


Hear, hear!


Programs started by Liberal governments.


Madam Speaker, I hear the gallery, and we will talk to the gallery from time to time because I know they want to be actively involved. They have not asked to meet with me this week, and I will be very pleased when they do.


We have! And you won't meet with us.


I have not heard from her.
I am here today to set the record straight on the government's commitment to fund women's centres, and to support women's programs and the women of Canada. Motions like the one we face today fuel unfounded fears.
Over the course of the last few days I have watched with dismay as misleading reports obscured the simple truth of the matter. The motion before the House on the issue of funding to women's centres gives me the opportunity to speak to all members and through them to all Canadians.

Madam Speaker, the opposition would have Canadians believe that the government is not interested in the

April 6, 1990
Supply
women of Canada. Nothing is further from the truth! No other government in Canadian history has been so concerned with advancing women's rights and working with them for sexual equality in our society.
Let us leave controversy aside and rather look at the facts. Between 1980 and 1984, the Liberal government-

-you were there, sitting in your seats-


I was not here in 1985.


The Liberal government only spenJ$12 million on women's programs, Madam Speaker-only $12 million.

Our commitment far overshadows that. Since 1984, at Secretary of State, we have spent over $56 million to support Canadian women in their ongoing efforts against disadvantage and for equality.


How about the money to REAL Women?


This year, for example, we will be working with over 550 voluntary women's organizations building a vital partnership in every province and territory. For example, we have made a priority of programs which assist immigrant and visible minority women, women with disabilities and native women. We have assisted women's groups in improving their fundraising skills.

We are addressing the problem of family violence with a multi-year strategy that is giving concrete results. We have taken a government-wide approach, calling on the resources of my department and those of Health and Welfare, Indian and Northern Affairs and Justice, as well as Canada Mortgage and Housing.

We have responded to the issue of family violence with a budget of over $40 million, including some $22.5 million for CMHC's Project Haven which will provide 500 shelter units for women and children. But our commitment goes beyond funding.
The government has built up an impressive legislative record with amendments to the Canada Pension Plan, to the Pension Benefits Standards Act, to the Old Age
Security Act, to the Indian Act and it enacted the first national Employment Equity Act. The list goes on and on.
The government has more than doubled the number of women appointed to federal boards, agencies and commissions.
The government has increased the number of women working at the deputy minister level from seven in 1984 to 21 today.
We have everything to be proud of, so I find pathetic the litany of gloom I hear from across the way. Let them measure their record against ours. I know what the outcome will be.

When the Prime Minister appointed me Secretary of State, he gave me the mission to do what I could to make equality a reality for all Canadians. Needless to say, real equality must include the group which makes up more than half the population of this country: Canadian women. That is exactly what the government has been doing over the past six years. We have done more for equality than any government before us.
Nevertheless, in hard times, one must make hard decisions. We cannot avoid them. The people of this country expect the government to be responsible.
As part of the government-wide expenditure reduction measures, my department's women's program budget was reduced from $11.2 million to $9.6 million. This reduction was part of an across-the-board effort affecting many departments. We simply must make sacrifices now to be able tomorrow to have the strong Canada we all desire.


What do you mean "we"?


This government recognizes the vital role women's centres play in the communities they serve and is committed to ensuring that they continue to carry on their activities.

The government knows and appreciates the activities organized by these centres. The women's centres are an important tool for the advancement of equality.
April 6, 1990

We have funded them and will continue to do so, to help them continue their invaluable efforts in this area. I would urge women's centres to apply for assistance for specific projects, and I can assure them they can also receive funding for the administrative costs involved.

This is the kind of funding that I announced yesterday in the House for the Second Storey Women's Centre in Bridgewater, Nova Scotia.


Playing off one group against another.


Women's centres will have priority in accessing project funding so that they can maintain their ability to carry out their activities that are mostly in their community-


Point of order, Madam Speaker.


Order. I have a point of order from the hon. member for Vancouver East.


I am sorry to interrupt but I really feel I have to. I wonder if the minister would entertain a question on the point that he is making.


I can ask the
hon. minister if he will entertain a question at this time, but there will be a period for questions and comments after the hon. minister has completed his intervention, when I will be delighted to recognize the hon. member. The hon. minister.


I have instructed my officials to deal with these applications on an urgent basis. For years some 20 centres across the country have been securing project funding from my department. With this assistance they have carried out excellent work and made a significant contribution to their communities.

I cannot repeat often enough how important it is for the government to see women's groups diversify their funding. The Women's Program is not the sole source of financial assistance. Other federal departments such as National Health and Welfare, Employment and Immigration, Labour Canada, Justice and the Solicitor General's Department provide assistance as well.
Many provincial governments also appropriate funds for this purpose. Furthermore, an increasing number of
Supply
women's groups are funded by other programs at the Department of the Secretary of State, including Multi-culturalism, Official Languages, Native Women and Disabled Persons Participation.
My department's Women's Program is intended to help women's organizations that are working to promote equality. Let me assure you that the centres will continue to receive assistance for any specific projects that are eligible.
The program has never directly funded health or social services. I want to make it quite clear that the Women's Program is not, and has never been, responsible for subsidizing shelters for battered women. Consequently, the decision with respect to funding for women's centres does not affect battered women, since this type of service is not included in the program's terms of reference.

The fact is that these vital services for some of the most disadvantaged Canadian women are funded at the municipal or provincial levels with the assistance of other federal government departments.
I want to be very clear about this. It is not within the mandate of the women's program of the Secretary of State to fund services for sexual assault victims or rape crisis centres. This program has never had a mandate to provide these kinds of services. It was not created for this purpose.
I would also like to make it clear that the majority of women's centres have survived in this country without core funding from the women's program.
What kinds of projects are funded by the women's program? Let me give you some examples. There are single mothers working to improve their economic opportunities; rural women developing information networks; immigrant women enhancing their skills; voluntary organizations working on child care issues; and women with disabilities organizing workshops on violence.
These few examples give the true flavour of the women's program. It is a program that meets contemporary challenges by assisting women and their organizations. This government takes its responsibility to fund women's centres across the country very seriously.

April 6, 1990
Supply

Considering the important role played by these centres, I believe the provinces should do their fair share. I had a meeting last week with the Hon. Philip Warren from Newfoundland and this afternoon I will be meeting the Hon. Violette Trepanier from Quebec. My colleague, the minister responsible for the Status of Women, is having talks with the Hon. Carol Gran from British Columbia.

The women's centres and I share a common objective. We want the centres to remain open. I have provided the means for keeping the centres open. Let us take advantage of this opportunity-


You've cut the programs.


Oh, oh!


I regret to interrupt the hon. minister.
I am sure that when members of the Opposition take the floor they will want to be heard and would certainly not be happy with the Speaker should the Speaker allow raucousness while they are speaking.
I would like hon. members to extend the same courtesy to the hon. minister.


I thank you for the intervention, Madam Speaker.


Poor little, Gerry.


I have had the pleasure of meeting with representatives of women's centres. I will continue to look for opportunities to meet representatives of women's centres. I have a number of meetings scheduled for next week. I am willing to talk. I would like to have a dialogue.


Why don't you meet with the NDP women?


There is a reality. The core funding, as some have described it, is discontinued. Increased program funding is available, with what I have described as very flexible criteria.
The program covers some admissible expenses as part of the program. I am very concerned. I have indicated that I want the centres kept open. There are others who have the same interest. There is a growing coalition of
people who are interested in being supportive-and finally stop trivializing the importance of these activities.


You are the one trivializing.


I have indicated that as quickly as applications can be completed, I will make sure that those applications are fast-tracked so that the money can be flowing to the centres. I am not sure what more anyone could expect, but I think that the individuals who have the concern of the women's centres at heart and the women's program should do all they can to help these initiatives come forward.
These are not easy issues for any one of us, and I know how concerned all members of Parliament are that we do the right thing.
What is interesting is that there is a very important program available through the Secretary of State. As I have indicated, within the Department of Multicultural-ism and Citizenship, we have made available almost $1 million through the program to immigrant women and visible minorities. There is over $2 million in the aboriginal women's program. There is increased funding for the disabled persons' program, and we know that almost 65 per cent of disabled people are women.
It is very important as we look at the over-all capacity of my ministry to respond to the growing needs of women in finally addressing the inequalities of the society that we be given the opportunity to help our client groups.
One thing that has been recognized has been the very positive and effective role that the staff and officials have always played in terms of their desire and their ability to serve their clients. It has been recognized by the people we serve that we have been easy to work with and that we have tried to be helpful wherever we could. This is the message that my regional people have tried to get out.
My associate undersecretary spent three or four days in Newfoundland attempting to help the several women's centres there bring forward their applications. I sense an openness on their part to come together, an openness to see how the project and the program funding can help them carry on.
What is even more important is that I see for the first time, a willingness on the part of Canadians from coast to coast to come together to make sure these important
April 6, 1990

initiatives are allowed to carry on for the benefit of all Canadians.


Hear, hear!


Questions or comments? The hon. member for Mission-Coquitlam.


Madam Speaker, I invite all the heckling they can muster on the other side of the House, if it makes them feel better. It certainly makes me feel better.
I would like to ask the minister some questions and, again, I would also like to set the record straight. When I have completed I would appreciate it if the minister would tell me how he expects women's centres to utilize program funding when they don't have core funding to pay the rent.
I would also like to point out to the minister that women's centres received five weeks' notice before their core funding was completely cut off. Five weeks is not nearly enough time to replace tens of thousands of dollars of funding. It is evident that obviously this government could not care less what happens to these centres.
The minister gave us a long list of the things that this government has done for women. I would like to talk a little bit about what this government has done for women lately.
I would like to talk about the fact that it reneged on its promise of a new child care system.
It proposed a recriminalization of abortion and removing women's reproductive choice.
It has called a .5 cent reduction in the wage gap between women and men a victory of the employment and equity legislation.
It has proposed a 7 per cent goods and services tax on everything from postage, books, tampons, haircuts, movies to transportation.
It has traded away women's jobs in the electronics, food processing and textiles industries.
It has backed out of its responsibility for unemployment insurance.
It has provided funding for the building of transition houses and shelters, but provided no assurance that there will be funding for programs.
Supply
It shut women out of the consultation decision-making process.
It spent more money on loans to strip clubs than to women's groups.
It continues with an immigration policy which favours rich men, and it continues to discriminate against immigrant women in federally funded language training programs.
It has refused to fund women's work on reproductive choice, lesbian rights and the environment and peace.
It has decreased funding for women's groups in the last two years by $3.6 million.
This government, I am sure, is very proud of that record.


Madam Speaker, I am not sure I heard a question. I did hear the member tell me that she did not understand what I said about core funding. That is what I heard.


Point of order, Madam Speaker.


She asked me to help her, Madam Speaker.


A point of order, the hon. member for Mission-Coquitlam.


Madam Speaker, as point of clarification for the hon. minister, I would like to point out that I did not ask for clarification. I asked him how he thought women's centres could-


That is not a point of order. We are getting back into debate. The hon. minister has the floor.


Madam Speaker, I want to be very careful so that I can help not only the member for Mission-Coquitlam, but perhaps other members and all Canadians who are watching.
I would like to talk about the words "core funding" and what they mean. I have heard in the last week or two how some may not be able to operate if these words are not reinstituted in the lexicon or the vocabulary of the ministry. Certain expenses, such as rent, lights, administrative overhead, staff-is that what the members mean by "core"?
What I am saying is that the criteria of program funding are flexible enough to allow those expenses as admissible expenses. If your funding ended on March 31, and I have indicated that we have increased project funding available for all the women's centres-not necessarily only for some that were funded in the

April 6, 1990
Supply
past-then please help yourselves. Help me to make sure that you can continue to provide the very essential service that you always have because you know there was a time not that long ago when that gang was in office and you got nothing.


Not true.


You're rewriting history.


We recognize the importance of what you are doing. Frankly, I am saying that I am here to help you complete the applications.
We had an example concerning Bridgewater, Nova Scotia. I received an application on Tuesday. We approved it Wednesday. The cheque was delivered.


It was a Tory riding, too.


What better way can there be of guaranteeing continuity?
In addition, with respect to Newfoundland I was so thrilled that I received three pages faxed to me of new-found supporters of the women's centres, some of them putting money in envelopes.
I said: "Look at what we have done, look at the benefit. A coalition of Canadians, governments at all levels, private and public sector, all interested finally in guaranteeing the sustenance and the future growth and support of the women's centre. Look how important it has become now".
I will tell you, Madam Speaker, never will anybody trivialize an activity. We have the commitment of the whole community. This is Canada speaking. Wake up to the benefit of what is taking place.


Madam Speaker, since the minister is obviously telling us this morning that project funding has turned into core funding-only the names have been changed to protect the innocent-I wonder if he could tell us if everyone who got funding under core funding is now going to get funding under project funding. What is going to happen to the people under project funding? Has the pie increased? Have we got so much money now that you are just changing the names? What is the story?


I thank the member for allowing me another moment or two for further clarification, Madam Speaker. I tell you the first requirement of having an application approved is to complete the application form.


We knew that.


As far as we are concerned, our officers from coast to coast at the most senior level have been open and willing to do this seven days a week. I think it is very well recognized by the centres, and in particular the women from coast to coast, how able we are to do that. As far as I am concerned, as quickly as the applications are completed projects will be approved and the money will flow.


I didn't ask that question.


I am waiting very, very patiently for all of the applications. I do not open files. There is opportunity now from coast to coast. New program funding is available. Our officers stand by ready and willing as they always have to be helpful. As I have indicated, they are recognized to be the most helpful people anywhere in the country.


Madam Speaker, I would like to ask the minister if he has talked directly to women who are working in women's centres, particularly the women in St. John's, Newfoundland, and British Columbia who have been so concerned and who have been trying to meet with him through the office of the Secretary of State. As well, has he talked to the the women in the Yukon and those women who are facing the closure of centres? A number of centres have already closed, as he should know.
Those women are saying over and over again that they cannot keep the door open. It is fine to talk about short-term program funding with a little token administrative cost on top, but that is not what we mean and he knows that. It is not what women mean either. It is for funding to keep those centres operational. Program funding is short-term.
I want to ask him if he has met with any of the women specifically, particularly women who are not Conservatives. If he has not, will he meet with them?


It will have to be a short answer from the Secretary of State.


Madam Speaker, the answer is yes.
April 6, 1990



Yes, in both official languages and I am very honoured to be taking part.
I will be meeting again with women from women's centres this week as I have before. I have been very active since I have been in this portfolio, and indeed in the last months. I have been very quick to want to meet and carry on a dialogue with all the people working with our program.
In addition, it is important to note that I have now had the pleasure of meeting with one or two provincial ministers. I am pleased to see that we are all interested in bringing forward a process that will guarantee, community-wide, the support and sustenance of this very worth-while organization.


It being eleven o'clock, pursuant to Standing Order 30(5), the House will now proceed to Statements by Members pursuant to Standing Order 31.


Madam Speaker, April 7 is World Health Day. This year, the theme will be health and the environment, and the slogan: "Think globally, act locally".
Together many countries throughout the world, Canada will continue to examine the extremely complex relationship between the environment and public health-whether we are talking about air or water pollution, the quality of food or promoting safe use of chemical products.
As a society, we have learned the hard way that we cannot go beyond certain limits without endangering our own health and that of other living creatures.
I would ask you and your constituents to stop and think a moment about your priorities. Are we doing enough? I
would say that in many cases we are not. Let's not just dream about a healthy environment. Let's make it happen.


Madam Speaker, my colleague, the hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell, and I would like to congratulate the staff of the Cornwall management area office upon receiving Employment and Immigration Canada's 1989 Outstanding Team Award in the management area category in recognition of their excellent work and valuable contribution to the communities in this region.
The team, led by manager Denis Thibault, has met or surpassed project goals and targets for the last three years, consistently keeping within their budget while providing a client service built on dedication and respect for both employers and the available workforce. The team motto is "Our commitment is service", and they have certainly proved that.
The office installed computerized systems to upgrade operations in the employment, insurance, claims and administration sections and created an extensive catalogue of employers and data on the job market. This led to increased job placements and better service for workers requiring assistance.
On behalf of the people of Stormont-Dundas and Glengany-Prescott-Russell, we wish to thank the team and congratulate them on a job well done.


Madam Speaker, this country is once again facing a period in our history when we are all being called upon to be show tolerance and understanding of our fellow Canadians.
During the next several months we will attempt to amend our Constitution to take another step forward in the development of the Canadian nation. We are not taking the last step forward. This is not the end of the process of constitutional renewal. We must all refrain from taking rash or negative actions. It is a time for building on the progress that has already been made. It is not the time to destroy the work of others.

April 6, 1990
I am looking forward to the next few months as all Canadians productively put forward their views on the constitutional renewal of Canada.


Madam Speaker, as the B.C. newspaper The Province put it yesterday, the only thing certain about the Meme breast implant is that doctors and scientists are uncertain about it. At least five scientists in the Department of National Health and Welfare urge that the implant be withdrawn from the market.
The minister claims the Meme is safe on the basis of the Kerrigan report, yet yesterday the minister acknowledged that even Dr. Kerrigan believes that further studies are warranted to address the possible degradation and contents of the foam. This is the main concern and no one seems to be able to say the foam is safe when implanted into the human body.
I am not fearmongering as the minister has suggested. I am trying to get answers to critical questions. Surgitek of Montreal is the only Canadian distributor of this product. The foam itself is imported from Pennsylvania and since 1984, 12,000 implants of this particular product have taken place, 10,000 of those implants in the province of Quebec alone.
I urge the minister to order the withdrawal from the market of the Meme until safety has been proven.


Mr. Speaker, next week members of this House will be voting on the goods and services tax, a tax that close to 80 per cent of Canadians have said they oppose. This government has chosen not to listen to the polls, but perhaps government members will listen to their constituents.
Only 21 of 167 Conservative members are needed to vote with the combined opposition parties to defeat the tax. We urge Canadians across the country to phone their Conservative members of Parliament, raise this issue with them and tell them they oppose the tax.
In Saskatchewan, people in Kindersley-Lloydminster can phone their member by calling 882-3959; in Souris-
Moose Mountain, 634-5988; in Swift Current-Maple Creek-Assiniboia, 773-2887; in Regina-Wascana, 780-5555. In Manitoba, they can phone the member for Provencher at-


The hon. member's time has expired.


Madam Speaker, April 7 is World Health Day. This year the theme is "Health and the Environment".
Recent environmental disasters such as the Hagers-ville tire fire emphasize the need for all countries to examine and begin to address the environmental hazards that may pose continuing health problems for future generations of Canadians.
Canada is in an enviable position with its high standard of living, its excellent health and social services system and its incredible supply of natural resources. But we all know that no country can afford to be complacent. We must work hard to preserve what we have and ensure that our environment is a positive force for healthy living.
I would urge you all, both as individual Canadians and as members in your own communities, to think globally and act locally, and to urge your friends, your families and your constituents to do the same.


Madam Speaker, I rise again to bring to the attention of this House the reaction of Canadians of the Islamic faith to current public usage of the term "Islamic terrorism", in particular with reference to an academic conference scheduled to take place this month at the University of Manitoba.
Although I am fairly sure that this phrase was not developed to deliberately insult or demean the Islamic faith, and although this unfortunate term has been used in other parts of the world and in connection with published works, it should be clear to us in Canada that this term derives from insensitivity and ignorance. For example, terrorism in an Islamic country is not more
April 6, 1990

Islamic than terrorism in northern Ireland is Catholic, or terrorism in Israel is Jewish.
Our continuing challenge in Canada and elsewhere in the world is to enhance our inter-cultural and inter-religious sensitivity and respect.
I am pleased to note that organizers of the conference on terrorism are incorporating into that conference a session which will reflect the principles of peace and brotherhood which underlie the Islamic faith.


Madam Speaker, many fishermen and plant workers, both men and women, have not been able to obtain unemployment insurance benefits this winter because the Liberal senators delayed approval of Bill C-21.
The non-elected Liberal appointed senators used all kinds of tactics to block this important legislation, preventing the application of the new measures included in the bill.
Who suffered and are still suffering? Certainly not the Liberal appointed senators, certainly not the Liberal opposition members, but the people living in 15 fishing communities on the lower north shore. They are the ones suffering because of that injustice.
These hard working and decent people are asking the Liberal senators: Why the delaying tactics? They want to know why they are held hostage because of political partisanship. They tell me that they are fed up with partisan politics being carried out on their backs. They want this bill to go through.


Madam Speaker, tourism is the largest growing business in Canada, and this government is set on a course to destroy it.
Since 1984, the size and capabilities of the federal Department of Tourism have been steadily reduced by 75 per cent. The cuts to VIA Rail will effectively keep people from visiting many parts of this country. This all comes at a time when support for the industry should be
increasing in order to accommodate the world-wide rapid growth of tourism.
But most devastating of all is the proposed goods and services tax with its ill-conceived rebate which will be an absolute nuisance to travellers.
We have heard nothing but complaints from tour operators over this tax. As a result of an across-the-board 7 per cent sales tax on such items as hotel rooms, attractions and motor coach charters, many tour companies will no longer be able to market Canada as an affordable destination. A loss of tourist revenue translates into a loss of jobs.
I urge the government to stop this assault on the tourist industry by scrapping this tax and doing something for this country.


Madam Speaker, on Saturday, Canadians can vote for or against the goods and services tax in malls and public places throughout Canada. On Monday, they can vote at their workplace. I suspect they are going to vote against it; at least the opportunity is there.
But what about Parliament Hill? We in the NDP have set up a balloting station here on the Hill. To be specific, it will open on Monday at 10 a.m. in the Commonwealth Room right here in the Centre Block. We are inviting staff, visitors on the Hill and MPs to vote.
As a matter of fact, I would like to specifically invite the Tory MPs, the back-benchers, to come and vote on Monday at ten o'clock. It is a secret ballot. I know many of them would like to vote against the GST; here is an opportunity.


Madam Speaker, on budget night the opposition members from northern Ontario said that the FedNor economic development program was gone. This morning, the hon. Minister of State for Small Businesses and Tourism announced in Sudbury that an additional $14 million

April 6