Prayers
I have the honour to inform the House that a message has been received from the Senate informing this House that the Senate has passed the following bills: Bill C-90, an Act to amend the Bank Act (extension) and Bill C-92, an Act to amend the Northwest Territories Act.


['Hear, hear.']
I have the honour to inform the House that a communication has been received as follows:
Rideau Hall Ottawa,
December 21,1990 Sir,
I have the honour to inform you that the Hon. Peter C. Cory, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Governor General, will proceed to the Senate Chamber today, the 21st day of December, 1990, at 11.30 a.m., for the purpose of giving Royal Assent to certain bills.
Yours sincerely,
Judith A. LaRocque Secretary to the Governor General

A message was delivered by the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod as follows:
Mr. Speaker, the Honourable Deputy to the Governor General desires the immediate attendance of this honourable House in the chamber of the honourable the Senate
Accordingly, Mr. Speaker with the House went up to the Senate chamber.
And being returned:


I have the honour to inform the House that when the House went up to the Senate Chamber the Deputy Governor General was pleased to give, in Her Majesty's name, the Royal Assent to the following bills:
Bill C-90, an Act to amend the Bank Act (extension)- Chapter 47; and
Bill C-92, an Act to amend the Northwest Territories Act -Chapter 48.


It being 11.45 o'clock a.m., pursuant to Order made Wednesday, December 19,1990, this House stands further adjourned until Monday, February 18, 1991, at 2 o'clock p.m.
At 11.48 a.m. the House adjourned, pursuant to special order.

Tuesday, January 15,1991


Prayers

[English\
Order, please. I wish to inform the House that, in accordance with the order of the House made Wednesday, December 19, 1990, and after consultation with the government, I caused to be published in an extra edition of The Canada Gazette a notice calling the House to meet this day.
In addition, on Sunday, January 13, 1991, I sent an electronic message to each member of the House containing the substance of that motion.

I also wish to inform the House that, in accordance with the government's representations and pursuant to Standing Order 55(1), I have caused to be published a special Order Paper giving notice of a government motion on the crisis in the Persian Gulf.

I now lay upon the table a letter dated Saturday, January 12, 1991 from the Leader of the Government in the House of Commons in relation to that notice.


I have the honour to inform the House that the Clerk of the House has received from the Chief Electoral Officer a certificate of the election and return of the Hon. Jean Chretien, member for the electoral riding of Beausejour.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Jean Chretien, member for the electoral district of Beausejour, introduced by the Hon. Herb Gray and Mr. Marcel Prud'homme.
I have the honour to inform the House that the Clerk of the House has received from the Chief Electoral Officer a certificate of the election and return of Mr. Maurizio Bevilacqua, member for the electoral riding of York North.


Mr. Maurizio Bevilacqua, member for the electoral district of York North, introduced by the Hon. Jean Chretien and Mr. Sergio Marchi.
Mr. Speaker, the serious international circumstances that prevail intrude on what is traditionally a light-hearted and respectful welcome to a new leader of any party and, of course, to a new Leader of the Opposition. I would have enjoyed that combination of tribute and welcome today. Most members would agree, and I know the Leader of the Opposition has already indicated to me that he would hope we err on the side of brevity this morning, which I will do.
On behalf of all members, I would like to extend a very genuine and a warm welcome to a very distinguished parliamentarian and a very fine Canadian, the Hon. Jean Chretien.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, the very distinguished parliamentary career of the new Leader of the Opposition reaches back over a quarter of a century. His very distinguished career in House of Commons is evidence of the fact that the very nature of the Commons is such that while strong disagreements can, and will always take

House of Commons
place on both sides of the aisle, they do so with a fundamental respect for the rules of parliamentary procedure as opposed to any kind of violence, verbal or otherwise, that can inhibit and ultimately destroy parliamentary democracy.
I salute the hon. member for his contributions in the past. I know that we all look forward to his participation in debates of national and international significance.

As the new Leader of the Opposition is well aware, there is no shortage of challenges in this country. We are counting on the new member for Beausejour and new Leader of the Official Opposition to contribute in a way that is both constructive and useful to the debate on the major national and international issues of the day.

I would like to say on behalf of all members of the House of Commons that we welcome Jean Chretien back to the floor of the House. We wish him and his family well. We do not wish him all the success in the world, but as much as one can hope for the Leader of the Opposition. I remind him that he has already demonstrated extraordinary ability for that particular role. If he keeps it up, I know that Canadians will reward him further with a long stay in that particular position.


Hear, hear.


Good luck, Jean!


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, with my colleagues, I have the pleasure of welcoming the member for Beausejour and the member for York North back to this Chamber.
On behalf of my colleagues I would like to congratulate both members on their successes. I would also like to take the opportunity of congratulating the Leader of the Opposition on his election as the leader of his party.
The member for Beausejour, as the right hon. Prime Minister has indicated, has much experience to bring this House, having been first elected in 1963, when Tommy Douglas was the leader of my party and John F. Kennedy was President. It is a time when we need that kind of experience in the House. We certainly welcome the wisdom that Mr. Chretien brings.

I am sure the Liberal leader will join millions of Canadian men and women who, with us, want to find a peaceful solution to the crisis in the Middle East.
The House was recalled for members to consider the most serious issue that has been before this House in many years. This is not a partisan issue. It is not a matter of party politics. It is about the future of Canada and the whole world.

For that reason we are particularly pleased-and I speak on behalf of my party and myself-to have the Leader of the Opposition with us in the House on this important and sombre occasion. While I wish him well, I can only wish him limited success.
As well, I would like to say that we will miss the interim leader, the hon. member for Windsor West, who certainly also brought much honour to the House.


Hear, hear!


Mr. Speaker, while the Leader of the Opposition and I will share very different opinions at certain times, I can say with great certainty that, as Mr. Chretien has shown in the past, we will all serve the interests of Canada to our best. I know the Leader of the Opposition has that interest foremost in his mind.
Welcome to the House of Commons.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I must say that I am greatly moved by this tribute from the Leader of the Government and the Leader of the New Democratic Party.
As the Prime Minister said earlier, under normal circumstances this would be a pleasant opportunity for some spirited exchanges and a lot of good humour, all of which would show that despite that which separates us

here in this House, all members elected to the House of Commons have only one objective: the well-being of Canadians. Our objectives and viewpoints may often differ, and we may express them quite forcefully, but we have received from our constituents a mandate to show Canadians what the best way is to run this country.

I would like to say to the Prime Minister and the Leader of the New Democratic Party that for me to be back under these circumstances unfortunately takes away at a time when I would like to have some light exchanges. The Prime Minister is very good at that, as is the Leader of the New Democratic Party, but today is a difficult day and it does not call for that. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Leader of the New Democratic Party.
I would like to offer my congratulations to the new member for York North who has done something unprecedented.


Hear, hear.


He is probably the first member of Parliament in our history to walk down the aisle twice in the same Parliament. I think that is a very good precedent that will lead us to walk down the aisle very soon, but the other way.


Hear, hear.


I would also like to say a few words about my election.

First of all, I wish to thank the hon. gentleman, Mr. Robichaud-


Hear, hear.


-who gave me the opportunity to take my seat today. I also would like to thank the voters in the electoral district of Beausejour who placed their trust in me at a crucial moment in Canada's history. I hope I will be a very good member for my constituents and I will try to be as good as my predecessor, Mr. Robichaud.
Routine Proceedings
Before I sit down, I would also like to thank the hon. member on my right who was the leader of this party for nearly a year and who did an exceptional job.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I can assure you that I fully intend to offer the Chair the same level of co-operation as did my predecessor from Windsor West and another predecessor, who is still a member of this House but unfortunately not in the House this morning, the hon. member for Vancouver Quadra. Both are very experienced parliamentarians who always understood the very difficult role the Speaker of this House has to play every day, in sometimes difficult circumstances.

In conclusion, I would like again to say thank you for the graciousness of the Prime Minister and the Leader of the NDP in welcoming me to the Chamber. I want to offer to both of them my collaboration. As I said, we are all here to serve the nation the best we can. We are here in a very difficult time. It is the time to get into the business of the nation, of war and peace that is troubling the nation.
For this welcome, to all members of Parliament I would like to say a very profound merci beaucoup.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, there have been extensive consultations, carried out principally by the member for Scarborough Centre, and I think you would find there is unanimous agreement in the House to adopt, without debate, the following resolution which I would propose to move, seconded by my colleagues from Parkdale- High Park and Winnipeg Transcona:
Be it resolved
That this House condemns the brutal and unacceptable Soviet crackdown in Lithuania, and calls upon President Gorbatchev and

Government Orders
U.S.S.R. authorities to refrain from using further violence against the people and democratically elected governments of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia.

That this House appeals to the U.S.S.R. to adhere to its obligations under the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris, and to seek solutions consistent with respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms; and
That, recognizing the continuing Canadian government policy not to recognize de jure the annexation of the Baltic States, this House recalls its Resolution of March 1990 and continues to support the right of the Baltic peoples to determine their own future.


The House has heard the motion. Is there agreement?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a short point of order.
Considering that we are about to launch into a very historic and important debate where the need for a maximum exchange of ideas is critical, there have been communications between the parties in terms of the proposal that we consider, after the first round of speeches by the leaders, entering into Committee of the Whole to maximize the positive and meaningful exchange between members.
I wonder, Mr. Speaker, if you would seek the unanimous consent of the House to move to Committee of the Whole after the first round of speeches by the leaders.


Mr. Speaker, as the House knows, there have been resolutions on this subject passed twice in the House and referred to the Standing Committee on External Affairs and International Trade, where that kind of discourse with officials and experts has been going on and continues to go on.
We thought it appropriate for this very important subject at this very important and critical time that the formal debate procedures of the House of Commons would be the best way to proceed. But, in terms of any other modifications to our Standing Orders or procedures that might expedite the kind of discourse, I would certainly be prepared to engage in discussions with House leaders about that at a future time.


Mr. Speaker, I take the remarks of the government House leader as a negative and that the government does not feel at this time time that the proposal put by the New Democratic Party requires its approval.
I regret that immensely because the Committee of the Whole would have allowed members of the House to have a dialogue with ministers on the other side. It would have also allowed for repeated questions to be put to the government and a more democratic debate.
Mr. Speaker The hon. member for Kamloops has put a suggestion to the House under motions. At the moment, there is not consent and it is now my duty to continue with Routine Proceedings.


Mr. Speaker, I ask that all questions be allowed to stand.


Shall all questions stand?


Agreed.


That this House reaffirms its support of the United Nations in
ending the aggression by Iraq against Kuwait.
He said: Mr. Speaker, on August 2 Saddam Hussein launched a war against Kuwait. His invasion and subsequent annexation of Kuwait are grievous violations of the most basic principles of international law and of human decency. We are here today to reaffirm Canada's support for the United Nations' efforts to bring those violations to an end.
On October 23, the House approved sending Canadian Forces members, vessels, and aircraft to participate in the multinational military effort in the Persian Gulf.

On November 29, the House passed a further motion, supporting the United Nations and, I quote, supporting "the United Nations in its efforts to ensure compliance with Security Council resolution 660 and subsequent resolutions", notably resolution 678 co-sponsored by Canada and passed the same day at the United Nations. Resolution 678 gives Saddam Hussein one final opportunity to comply with the will of the world community as expressed in successive United Nations resolutions. The 47-day pause for peace provided for in resolution 678 ends tonight.
Indeed, Mr. Speaker, as we consider this matter on the floor of the House of Commons, efforts continue at the United Nations with a proposal that contains elements that are similar to ideas advanced in writing by Canada to the United Nations Secretary-General last week.
Diplomacy has been and is still being given every chance. Following U.S. Secretary Baker's unsuccessful meeting with Iraqi Foreign Minister Aziz last week in Geneva, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Perez de Cuellar, made the second of two visits to the Middle East on this issue. His appeal to Saddam Hussein to leave Kuwait was callously rebuffed once again. Mr. Perez de Cuellar told journalists yesterday that he saw "no reason to have any real hope". He has reported that Saddam Hussein "never mentioned.. .that he was prepared to withdraw from Kuwait." No one could have failed to notice Saddam Hussein's contempt for international opinion, international law, and common decency.

United Nations resolution 678 authorizes member states to use all necessary means to uphold and implement the relevant UN resolutions on this crisis and to restore international peace and security in the area.
Resolution 678, approved by this House on November 29, also requests all member states, including Canada, to provide "appropriate support" for actions taken in pursuance of this important goal.
Government Orders
The choice of peace or war remains Saddam Hussein's, and only his, as it has been for the last five and a half months; but time is very quickly running out on him.
Regardless of how they cast their vote last November 29, members on all sides of the House hope that hostilities will not be necessary.
It was clear to all of us then that we might have to impose the ultimate sanction on Saddam Hussein, military force, if he did not withdraw his forces illegally stationed in an innocent member state.
The United Nations made the threat of the use of force to, persuade Saddam Hussein of the seriousness of the UN's determination to see him out of Kuwait. It was not an empty gesture.
The question before Canadians now is a simple one. If Saddam Hussein does not withdraw peacefully from Kuwait and the use of force is required, where will Canada stand? On this simple question of right and wrong, will we continue to support the international coalition, or will we stand aside and hope that others will uphold the rule of international law?
There are very significant and understandable differences of opinion on such an important and sensitive international issue that has impacts of all kinds-many of them incalculable today-on the lives of many Canadians and many people around the world.
I understand and I respect the views of all members on all sides of this issue as they consider such a profoundly troubling and difficult issue and the manner in which it can be best confronted while keeping in mind the national interest and our international obligations.
The Government of Canada and I, as Prime Minister, have reflected very carefully on all aspects of this problem as I understand them. Our entire policy of the government is similar to policies of previous governments when confronted with similar challenges.
Our entire policy has been designed to achieve a peaceful solution to it. If, however, Saddam Hussein continues to reject the will of the United Nations, Canada will join with the United Nations in expelling him from Kuwait by force.


Hear, hear.

January 15, 1991
Government Orders


Kuwait may seem a remote place geographically and culturally, but so did Manchuria in 1931, Abyssinia in 1935, and Czechoslovakia in 1938. While, in the thirties, these were little known places, in the nineties they figure in our history books as the stepping stones to World War II. In each case what has been described by a leading historian as "a profound pacifism, an almost doctorinaire insistence on peace regardless of the circumstances" led the League of Nations to turn a blind eye to aggression-and the world paid a price in millions of avoidable deaths in World War
n.
What is happening in Kuwait has direct and substantial effects on Canada's interests. As a country with a comparatively small population, with two superpowers as neighbours, and with our own limited military capacity, Canada's most basic interest lies in the preservation of international law and order. The United Nations and its charter are essential to the rule of law and to the respect of the integrity of small countries by larger neighbours.

The architects of the United Nations-and Canadians were among them-were determined "to make absolutely certain", as Lester Pearson wrote in 1945, "that never again should an aggressor be permitted to strike down one nation after another before the peace loving nations of the world organize and take concerted action against it".
The fundamental purpose of the United Nations itself, as proclaimed in Article 1 of its charter, is "to maintain international peace and security" by taking "effective collective measures for the prevention and removal of threats to the peace and for the suppression of acts of aggression or other breaches of the peace".
That is in the founding charter of the United Nations itself. Those are the principles that we pledged to uphold when we helped found and subscribed to the fundamental precepts based on the notion of the respect for international law almost 50 years ago.

With the exception of Korea, the UN has been prevented by the cold war from either suppressing acts of
aggression or preventing them, as the Suez crisis, Vietnam, Afghanistan and the Arab-Israeli wars, among dozens of other conflicts, make clear.
Today, with the extraordinary unanimity that has accompanied the relaxation of east-west tensions, the authority vested in the UN by its architects-including Prime Ministers King, St. Laurent and Pearson-can be exercised by our generation to preserve international law and order.
Saddam Hussein's challenge raises the stakes for the UN. Because, while this crisis provides an opportunity for the UN to play the role Canada has always wanted it to play, regrettably it also provides an occasion for the UN to fail to do so. And if the UN were to fail to do so, a large part of the principles, objectives and efforts of 45 years of Canadian diplomacy would have been for nothing.
Our generation, having ignored the lessons of history, could be condemned to re-live some of history's darkest chapters. Saddam Hussein would become an example for other potential bullies, making the world an even more dangerous place than it is already. Nations would be left alone to defend themselves against aggression and a new arms race would be launched.
The UN-designed to prevent a return to the rule of the jungle-could go the way of the League of Nations, and this at a time when international problems-from the environment to human rights to debt to development to drugs to the protection of children-can only be resolved collectively, and when a credible, effective UN has never been more necessary.
These are not abstract issues to Canada. They are not someone else's business. They are direct, vital Canadian interests, and they are engaged fully in this question. The UN cannot be allowed to fail at this critical moment in history.

The argument is made by some that Canada should hold itself back now in order to play a peacekeeping role later. Were Saddam Hussein to succeed in his annexation of Kuwait, he would be in a position to threaten the entire Middle East, and he is in the process of threatening individual nations as we speak.
January 15, 1991

With the time and the wealth he would acquire, he would add further weapons of mass destruction to his arsenal, including in all probability nuclear weapons. In what position would this put his neighbours? After Iran and Kuwait, what would be his next target? Saudi Arabia? Jordan? Would we hold ourselves back again, waiting for the latest atrocities to end so that Canada might then be invited in as part of a peacekeeping force?
Saddam Hussein has threatened directly to attack Israel with weapons of mass destruction. In the face of extraordinary provocation from Iraq, as evidenced by Foreign Minister Aziz' deplorably aggressive threat from Geneva last week directly to mount an assault on Israel, Israel has demonstrated remarkable restraint.
Should Saddam Hussein move against Israel, would we still hold ourselves back in the hope that we would be called in later to help keep what is left of the peace in what is left of the Middle East?
This course is a prescription for neither wisdom nor responsibility and it is not a course that Canada should follow.


Hear, hear.


It is also argued that a peacekeeping role would be more in keeping with Canada's traditions. There is no reason at all, none whatsoever, to believe that a peacemaking role now disqualifies Canada for a peacekeeping role later.
Participation in the Korean War did not prevent External Affairs Minister Pearson from helping to create the United Nations peacekeeping function. Membership in NATO and NORAD has not prevented us from participating in every United Nations peacekeeping operation but one since the beginning of the international organization, and supporting right over wrong in the Persian Gulf does not preclude a peacekeeping role for Canada there following hostilities.
Like all Canadians, we are justifiably proud of Canada's peacekeeping traditions. But peacekeeping is only part of Canada's traditions. Standing firm for what we believe in and fighting if necessary is also a Canadian tradition and one that we remember most solemnly every November 11.
More than 1,700,000 Canadians participated in World Wars I and II and in Korea; 100,000 graves in Europe and Asia that bear silent but eloquent testimony to the courage and will of Canadians to stand for what we believe is right.
Government Orders
A terrible wrong is being committed by Saddam Hussein and I believe it is a terrible wrong which, if unchecked, could lead to horrific consequences for other nations in the region and indeed the entire world. A terrible wrong is being committed by Saddam Hussein, and I believe and this government believes that it is the moral duty of the international community to stop him now.
His motives in attacking Kuwait were self-aggrandizement and greed, nothing more difficult than that to understand: greed, money, territory, access to the sea, greed. That is the reason that for the first time one Arab state invaded another, a peaceful neighbouring state that had co-operated freely and generously with its neighbour.

To confuse international opinion, he has attempted to link the Persian Gulf crisis with the Palestinian issue. No one believes he invaded Kuwait to help the Palestinians. Everyone can see he is trying to rationalize his invasion of Kuwait after the fact and to undermine the multinational coalition now facing him. His attempt to portray the occupation of Kuwait-and the atrocities and murders he perpetrated on other Arabs-after all, he is the one who initiated such violence against his Arab neighbour-as somehow advancing legitimate Palestinian interests and concerns is both beyond understanding and beneath contempt.
Since we last debated this crisis in November, we have received the Amnesty International report detailing the extent of murders, rapes and brutalization in Kuwait. Tbrture and executions of non-combatants, including young children, have been wide-spread and accurately reported by the Amnesty International officials. I urge all members of this House to read this eye-opening and distressing report. Thousands of people have been subjected arbitrarily to arrest and detention. Hundreds of thousands of people have been forcibly evicted from Kuwait. A systematic effort is being ruthlessly carried out to erase the identity of a nation.
Notwithstanding these atrocities, some still make the argument that economic sanctions should be given more time to work. That is an interesting point of view and I look forward to hearing what the members think of that for, in my opinion, the most fundamental question we must ask ourselves is will sanctions alone work? The sanctions and the naval and air blockades have succeeded in stopping a great deal of Iraq's foreign trade. There

Government Orders
is no doubt about that. They are also unquestionably having an impact on economic conditions and living standards within Iraq. Iraqi oil production is down substantially. At the same time, there is clearly leakage of foodstuffs and components through the embargo.
An appropriate question is, how much time will it take for sanctions to work: six months, sixteen months, sixty months? Obviously, no one knows. The essential point in regard to sanctions that we all must remember is that Saddam Hussein has demonstrated limitless tolerance for the suffering of his own people.
This is a man who put his nation through eight pointless years of a war that took almost a million lives. It was so pointless, in fact, that in August he gave back almost everything that he had gained from that eight-year war with Iran in order to purchase Iranian neutrality in this particular conflict to make sure that he was not attacked from another flank. Eight years of extraordinary suffering and devastation inflicted on two countries, hundreds of thousands of young lives lost, and whatever was gained was turned back in an instant to procure the neutrality of somebody who might attack him while he was engaged in attacking an innocent Arab neighbour.
While industrial production is down substantially because of shortages of imported goods, Saddam Hussein will always ensure that the Iraqi armed forces are guaranteed the absolute top priority to key commodities. He will not hesitate, as the evidence of history clearly indicates, to pass on any amount of suffering and deprivation to his own people. Their well-being and security is clearly the furthest thing from his mind. But there is no evidence that sanctions have caused a groundswell of public discontent.
In fact, there is no reason to believe that the sanctions are having the desired effect at all. The desired effect is not to inflict damage on the armed forces tomorrow morning, but to get Saddam Hussein to withdraw from Kuwait by tonight. His objective is different from ours. We want him removed from Kuwait and he very much wants to stay there.
There is every reason to believe, based on his most recent statements last night and this morning and confronted with the extraordinary resolutions of the United Nations, that he has not the slightest intention, at least not so far, to indicate that he will respect and honour the commitments of the United Nations. He is determined to stay. He shows every sign of trying to out-wait the international community in the hope that events sooner or later will split the United Nations coalition.
Given the volatility of world affairs, especially in the Middle East, his gamble might very well work. In weighing the arguments in favour of using force, it must obviously be conceded that the risks and costs of a war are literally incalculable but that they would certainly be substantial in lives and resources. How risky and how costly would depend on a number of factors. How long would the war last? How strongly would the Iraqi forces resist? Could war be limited to the Iraq-Kuwait theatre or would it spread? How much damage would the environment sustain?
These are fundamentally important questions which I acknowledge. Unfortunately, there are no firm answers from anyone anywhere to these questions at this moment.
But while we concern ourselves and properly so with these questions, we must also guard against the tendency to regard waiting as cost-free. The fact is that there are also absolutely incalculable costs to waiting. The destruction of Kuwait continues unabated. An entire nation is being systematically dismantled and destroyed before our very eyes and human rights abuses continue at a pace and on a scale with few precedents in modem times.
Furthermore, the international economy is being damaged, and the poorest people in the Third World are the most affected. The funds that are paying for a massive military presence in the gulf are not available to the fledgling democracies of Eastern Europe, with potentially critical consequences for their futures.
And all the while that we wait for sanctions to work, the Iraqi defences become increasingly formidable. If it requires hostilities to get Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait, the costs in terms of casualties among the coalition partners, including Canada, probably increase with every day and every week that passes. So, while a war is certain

to be very costly, waiting to see if sanctions will work is very costly as well.
If sanctions failed at the end of the given period of time-16 months, 36 months, whatever-what then would be the guarantee that the coalition would still be united and able to fight 16 months down the road, let alone 60? And fight for what? Fight for the integrity and respect of the United Nations without which a civilized world cannot exist.
Were Saddam Hussein to succeed, the costs to Canadian interests-and I define Canadian interests very clearly to include the discrediting of the United Nations, the distortion of international order, the trampling of human rights-and the impact on the world economy would be unacceptable.
I have heard it said that Canadian interests are not engaged. When the United Nations is discredited, when a member state is invaded, when human rights are being abused, when people are being slaughtered, I say that Canada's rights and Canada's interests are very much engaged and must be defended.


Hear, hear.


For all these reasons, the government believes that Canada should continue to support the United Nations in taking all possible measures to cause Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait.
Some allege that the government is simply following the lead of the United States administration on this issue. This is perhaps the most tired and threadbare accusation of all, because as Prime Minister Pearson wrote derisively in his memoirs: "a sure way to get applause and support at home is to exploit (Canadians') anxieties and exaggerate (their) suspicions over United States power and policies", and Mr. Pearson was right.
It should not be surprising or offensive to anybody that the views of free nations often coincide. In fact, in this case the views of all leading western nations led by governments of very different political stripes, including the United Kingdom, Italy, Australia, France, the United States, and Canada, are in harmony.
Why not? We all share the values of liberty, democracy and equality before the law. Our institutions all draw
Government Orders
their validity from the free expression of the wills of our people. In foreign affairs, we all stand for the respect of international law.
It is certainly not surprising to members of this government that in light of the stakes on this issue these democracies, leading western industrialized democracies, all back the United Nations very strongly.


Hear, hear.


Canada worked hard to persuade the United States to work within the United Nations and to forgo unilateral action. The international coalition knows it must now be prepared to stand up for what is right.
Bob Hawke, the distinguished Prime Minister of Australia and leader of the socialist party in his country, the Labour Party, in weighing the same considerations we are weighing today, told his Parliament on December 4:
-if conflict occurs of a kind which is contemplated and authorized by the (United Nations) resolution, (Australian) ships will be available to participate fully in actions with the allied fleet-

Francois Mitterrand, President of France and leader of his country's Socialist Party, has made clear his country's position when he said, and I quote: "France considers a complete withdrawal from Kuwait to be an inviolable principle. Moreover, (France) holds that the January 15th deadline cannot be postponed or extended for any reason whatsoever". The President of France concluded that: "If the conditions that have been set are not fulfilled, then France will be doing its duty."

In the United Kingdom, Prime Minister Major has been equally clear and consistent on this point.
Mr. Neil Kinnock, the Leader of the Opposition in the United Kingdom, said last week that his party, the socialist party, the Labour Party of the United Kingdom, "will not, in the interests of distancing ourselves from the government, distance ourselves from our forces or from our obligations to the United Nations".


Hear, hear.

January 15, 1991
Government Orders


We know now that both chambers of the United States Congress have voted to support the administration in the implementation of UN Resolution 678 to get Saddam Hussein's forces out of Kuwait.

As a matter of fact, Mr. Speaker, Canada's policy from the beginning has been a two-track policy: working relentlessly for peace, but preparing for hostilities if diplomacy failed. In fact, the record will show that from the day Iraq invaded Kuwait we have carried on very extensive, diplomacy designed to find a peaceful solution to this crisis. We have consulted widely in the region, and elsewhere, promoted the importance of the UN as the instrument of the world's response, urged a prompt withdrawal by Iraq, and counselled prudence on our allies. A full outline of all of our principal efforts since last August will be set out by the Secretary of State for External Affairs when he speaks in the debate later today. I am satisfied, Mr. Speaker, that we, in Canada- as I believe every member of this House will recongnize after having heard the Secretary of State for External Affairs-have done everything possible to promote a peaceful outcome to this crisis.

No one wants a war, least of all those to whom it falls to fight. I am sure that I speak for every member of this House and for all Canadians in expressing my deepest admiration for the dedication, the professionalism, and the courage of the Canadian service men and women in the Persian Gulf today.


Hear, hear.


I am sure that whatever our policy views, whatever differences we may have from time to time, we in this House will be unanimous in supporting these outstanding and courageous men and women. They are there in the defence of the values and interests of all Canadians. They deserve the country's gratitude and support. Both they and their families have the prayers of all members of the House for a safe return.
If war comes, Canadians will be at risk.

Saddam Hussein has openly and blatantly threatened to use weapons of mass destruction in the region and to
sponsor terrorist activity abroad as well. We have, therefore, advised Canadians that they should defer travel to the region and, if they are already there, to consider leaving now. CSIS and the RCMP have increased their levels of alert.
On this point, I want to reassure Iraqi Canadians that they will not be subject in any way to illegal surveillance or unwarranted detention, as was the case in regard to other citizens during World War H That lesson fortunately has been learned in this country.
The House has been recalled today, in these serious circumstances, to permit members to express themselves on the Gulf crisis in the full knowledge of the facts and of the government's position on them. We are asking that the opposition join, if possible, in re-affirming Canadian support of the UNin securing the withdrawal of Iraq from Kuwait. This procedure is consistent with our tradition in the past.
In 1939, in equally serious circumstances, the then Leader of the Opposition stated in this House for example-no comparison is perfect of course, but I mention it as an example-that: "We are going through a very grave crisis,... it is no exaggeration to say that this is a war for the preservation of human liberty. So far as my party is concerned... there will not be... anything in the way of political manoeuvring or captious criticism."

In June, 1950, one of the most distinguished servants of this House, the Hon. Stanley Knowles, speaking on behalf of his party on the Korean crisis, pledged his party's "complete support of the principle of collective security and their readiness to carry their support of that principle into all it may involve".
Mr. Knowles went on to say that "the government has the concurrence of all of the groups in this House in its readiness to support the action"-the military action as it then was-"taken by the United Nations. That is clearly our obligation and that way alone lies hope." Mr. Knowles concluded by saying on the floor of this House, "If we can deal with this present crisis on that basis and demonstrate the effectiveness of collective action for peace we may yet achieve much more in that direction than at times we have dared to hope".

As it was in 1950, so it is today in 1991. The government is acutely conscious of the gravity of the situation. Canada is a peaceful country. Canada Day is an occasion for family gatherings and friendship and not for bombast and military parades. Canada is a country that stands for decency and peace and we are also a country that stands for principles, respect for law, freedom, and human dignity.
The fundamental truth in this debate is that if we want peace we must defend these principles for which the United Nations stands. We must be prepared to stand up for what is right. To do otherwise is to signal to Saddam Hussein and to all other potential aggressors that the United Nations is incapable of responding effectively to aggression. No moral superiority accrues to those who stand on the sidelines and let others defend their principles. Canada is a peaceful country, but Canada is neither a neutral country, nor a country that expects a free ride.
Most members of this House, including me, are too young to have had personal involvement in war. All of us, however, know the devastation that war has brought to too many nations and the sorrow that it has visited upon too many families in this country alone. As a result, for successive governments over decades, the avoidance of war has been the principal thrust of Canadian foreign policy. Over the decades Canada has made contributions to the cause of peace that have been substantial and effective. But we have always known, as Canadians, that peace comes to those who are willing to defend it.
Indeed, it is because our parents and theirs courageously resisted aggression in the past in places far away, that we today are members of this democratic parliament in a free and an independent country.


Hear, hear.


I believe, Mr. Speaker, that we honour that heritage and we respect noble Canadian traditions of valour today by standing firm in support of the United Nations and all the hope and the promise that a rejuvenated and strengthened United Nations brings to the entire world.
I believe that we honour that heritage and respect noble Canadian traditions today by standing firm in support of the only international institution that can
Government Orders
guarantee a durable peace in the world. If anything can, it is the United Nations and we must stand today in helping the United Nations to suppress aggression against an innocent member state. That has been Canada's tradition over decades and I believe that remains Canada's obligation today.


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, as I rise in this House today, I am saddened and concerned, as I believe all Canadians are at this time. We may be only a few hours away from a conflict, a war in the Persian Gulf.

A long and dark shadow, a shadow of death, hangs over the Middle East. A long and dark shadow, a shadow of death, hangs over hundreds and hundreds of Canadian women and men in the Middle East today. Therefore, today is a day for calm and it is a day for quiet deliberation.
Our duty is to promote peace, not war. The clock is ticking. There are only a few hours ahead of us. So all of us must move with caution, we must move with care.
I would like to say to the Prime Minister that we are not debating at this time the support of the UN. We all support the UN.


Right on.


Hear, hear.


Today, we are debating war and we are debating Canadian participation in a war.
The problem we all face is why the Prime Minister has not chosen to ask the real question of the House today. This is the question with which the country is faced: Should Canadian troops participate in a war, perhaps at midnight tonight, between Iraq and the United States? That is the question we are facing at this moment and it is the question that we have to answer.
We all supported the government up to a point last November. On August 2, the Security Council of the United Nations passed resolution 660 after the invasion of Kuwait by Iraq. We approved that resolution of condemnation of the action of Iraq. On August 6, there was another resolution of the Security Council asking for economic sanctions against this country that had invaded

Government Orders
Kuwait. We in this House all supported the economic sanctions against Iraq.
Later, on August 25, there was another resolution of the Security Council to authorize military action to enforce the sanctions in the Gulf. We all supported that resolution. We all applauded the action of the UN at that moment because we thought that we were getting into a new order in the world, where it would be possible to have a collective action to act. We were happy. The cold war was over. There was a new hope that it was possible to act collectively to maintain peace around the world.


Hear, hear.


We were all of the opinion that sanctions were needed and we were all hoping that sanctions were working. But suddenly, in November, resolution 678 was presented. At that time we had anticipated what was going to happen and we decided not to support the government. We realized that the decision made in August was a decision that called for embargoes and sanctions and it was going to take time.
I can quote the President of the United States and his Secretary of State who in October told the American Congress, before their elections there, that the sanctions were working.


Hear, hear.


Later in the fall, the same thing happened. The head of the CIA, William Webster, talked about all the problems that the sanctions and the embargoes were causing to Iraq. He talked about more than 90 per cent of Iraq's imports and 97 per cent of exports having been stopped. Industrial production in Iraq has declined by 40 per cent since August. All that was said in October. He talked about the problem of putting exchange restrictions so that they had no more money to buy anything to maintain their equipment.
That was in the fall. But within a few days, we did not hear about sanctions or embargoes any more. The question was about the resolution with a deadline. We said at that time and we say again today that we strongly reject the use of force now-


Hear, hear.


-because the embargo has not been given enough time to work.
Since November, military deployment to put pressure on Iraq has developed a momentum of its own which has outpaced the march for a negotiated settlement. The January 15 ultimatum has reduced the room for diplomatic activity because an ultimatum is not negotiable. We predicted at that time that we would be faced with this problem today, that the ultimatum would not work.
I would like to clarify something that is very important to all Canadians and that is what the Security Council has authorized in resolution 678. It has given licence to individual members of the United Nations to use force after January 15. That was the resolution. But, it has not activated the UN charter provisions which regulate the use of force by the United Nations. This is a fundamental difference in the debate.
Of course we participated in the group that enforced the embargoes. Thirty-one countries have joined us in enforcing the sanctions and embargoes. But today we are on the verge of war. How many of those 31 countries will go to war if there is a war tonight at midnight? How many? Eight or nine? Certainly not 31. What is so frustrating is that after the presentation of the Prime Minister today we are not sure if we will be in that position if confronted with war today. That is what is so embarrassing for us.
Over the weekend, while debate was going on in the United States of America, we listened to senators and congressmen talk about war and the participation of their people in war. They talked about the American interests in the Middle East. They did not debate the United Nations. They debated the participation of Americans in a war.


Right on.


Hear, hear.


Why are we not facing the problem in the same way here when there is anxiety in the Canadian people today? They do not know exactly what is going on. This is the problem.
For us, it is clear. The action of the government has put us in a position where it looks to me and members of

this party that the Prime Minister has not stated clearly, if there is a war tonight, whether or not we will be part of that war. It is unacceptable.


Hear, hear.


We said that military action is premature. We said that military action at this moment is unwise. It is very dangerous for long-term security in the Middle East and for the viability of the UN.
I would like to say to the Prime Minister that it is very, very easy to start a war, but it is very difficult to stop a war.


Hear, hear.


My view and the view of my party is that it is premature to have military action today. We have to ask the United Nations Security Council to review and to report to the world on the effects of the sanctions and the embargo in an official, non-partisan way. But as the international body that can pass judgment as to whether these sanctions are working. We have not seen any official report from the UN so far.
Of course, if there is no war, our forces should stay there. They are present to enforce the embargo and the sanctions and they should be there. But if there is war tonight, tomorrow, or the day after-the minute there is war-there is no more embargo. The embargo becomes a blockade and a blockade is an act of war. If faced with an act of war, we say on this side of the House that it is premature and that our troops should not be involved in a war at this moment-


Hear, hear.


-and our troops should be called back if there is a war, unless we decide to be in a war. But we have to have the time-


Oh, oh!


After the cold war, we thought that we were entering into a new order in the world. We thought that military intervention would not occur because we believed that the international community could make sure that there would be no aggression tolerated and that the United Nations goa