Mr. Speaker, pursuant to section 36(8) of the Standing Orders I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to 187 petitions.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


Mr. Speaker, while I am on my feet, I am pleased to table in both official languages a number of Order in Council appointments which were made by the government pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 110(1). These are deemed referred to the appropriate standing committees, a list of which is attached.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I notice that the Minister of National Defence is not in the House to make a statement at this time, and I can appreciate the scheduling difficulties. I am wondering if the House would agree
to allow us to revert to ministerial statements at three o'clock to allow the Minister of National Defence to make a statement to the House.


The hon. member has raised a matter for the consideration of the House. Of course it can be done if there is consent. I look to the hon. parliamentary secretary for his response.


Mr. Speaker, I have not had a chance to consult with the Minister of National Defence this morning, so may I bring that to his attention? I will certainly come back to the House and advise the House as to whether or not we can do that.


Is that agreed?


Agreed.


for leave to introduce Bill C-31, an act to amend the Extradition Act.


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
for leave to introduce Bill C-269, an act to amend the Copyright Act (fair use).
She said: Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present this bill once again. In the last session I was very pleased to have an hour of debate on this issue and then it was unanimously referred to the committee, which never considered it. I think one of the frustrations of being a backbencher is that it takes so long to get any issue of importance to your constituents considered.

Routine Proceedings


Motion agreed to, bill read the first time and ordered to be printed.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: Nos. 2, 11, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 28, 31, 32, 36, 37, 54, 56, 61, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 71, 77, 78, 79, 83, 86, 88, 91 and 93.1 am surprised nobody called bingo.


Since 1989, how much has the government spent on the establishment of the Race Relations Network headed by Dr. Ralph Agard?


Time required to prepare this answer: 5 hours and 5 minutes
Approximate cost: $92.
I am informed by Multiculturalism and Citizenship Canada as follows:
Since March 1989, a total of $50,676 has been spent towards the establishment of the Anti-Racism and Human Rights Network.


For each fiscal year since 1988, how many (a) person years (b) dollars have been devoted to research on the effects of climate warming on (i) lakes (ii) fisheries (iii) forestry (iv) wildlife (v) ocean resources, and from which departments or programs were they obtained?


Time required to prepare this answer: 20 hours
Approximate cost: $360
I am informed by the Departments of Fisheries and Oceans, Environment and Forestry as follows:
Insofar as the Department of Fisheries and Oceans is concerned the estimated DFO annual resources since 1988 spent directly on the effects of climate warming on lakes, fisheries and ocean resources are:
			88/89	89/90	90/91
				AP	
a)	(0	Lakes	-	-	-09	Fisheries	8	8	8(V)	Ocean Resources	2	2	2' $000's	b)	0)	Lakes	-	-	-(ii)	Fisheries	80	80	80(v)	Ocean Resources	20	20	20
These numbers exclude salaries and logistic support such as shiptime.
Insofar as the Department of the Environment is concerned:
For the four year period 1988/89 to 1991/92, the following Canadian Wildlife Service A- base resources have been allocated to:
(9	Lakes (i.e. wetlands)	a)	b)North American Waterfowl Management Plan	0.2PY	41K(N	Wildlife:	a)	b)Western & Northern Region	1.0PY	7KNational Wildlife Research Centre	1.0PY	3K
These are total, not annual, expenditures for the four year period.
Insofar as the Department of Forestry is concerned:
(iii) Climate Change and Forestry was first separated as a budgetary activity in fiscal 1989-90. Previously, work done in this field had been included under another activity entitled "Impact of Atmospheric Pollutants on Forests".
FY 1989-90 Total PY allocation 3.0,	$ 16,000	O&M.FY 1990-91 Total PY allocation 9.2,	$ 185,700	O&M.$ 37,000	capital


Did the Customs and Excise Division of Revenue Canada cause to be produced a poster highlighting a logo and the words "A Proud New Image" and, if so, (a) what is the purpose of this poster (b) who prepared the artwork (c) how many copies were produced (d) was any of the work attributed by public tender (e) to whom was the poster sent (f) what was the total cost to the taxpayer?


Time required to prepare this answer: 4 hours
Approximate cost: $72.
I am informed by the Department of National Revenue as follows:
September 17, 1991

Customs and Excise Division of Revenue Canada produced a poster highlighting a logo and the words "A Proud New Image".
The purpose of the poster was to inform the Canadian public and the Customs and Excise employees of the new departmental identity which provides a quick and easy recognition of all Customs and Excise material. Until then, there was no common symbol for Customs and Excise.
The poster was created by the design firm Banfield Seguin and some 12,000 copies were printed.
Before commencing the work on the poster, the Communications Branch invited two designers to discuss their ideas. It was decided by a committee created within the Department to hire the firm Banfield Seguin.
The printer for the poster was chosen by DSS.
The poster was distributed to all Customs and Excise employees and to various offices of Customs and Excise.
The cost of designing the poster and submitting camera-ready artwork with colour separation was $2,171. The cost of printing the poster through DSS was $4,950.
The standardization of one common graphic for use by both Customs and Excise means significant savings.


With respect to the anticipated 1993 closure of Canadian Forces Base in Moncton, has there been any change in the scheduled closing date, and if so, what was the rationale or basis for such change?


Time required to prepare this answer: 7 hours and 20 minutes
Approximate cost: $134.
I am informed by the Department of National Defence as follows:
In April 1989, it was stated that the closure would occur over a three year period beginning in 1993. Plans are not complete, but it is still anticipated that the final closure of CFB Moncton will occur in 1996.


Has the Department of National Defence called for a contract for the construction of a new supply depot in Moncton, N.B. and, if so, (a) how many responses have there been for this contract (b) when is the awarding of the contract anticipated?
Routine Proceedings


Time required to prepare this answer: 6 hours and 55 minutes
Approximate cost: $126.
I am informed by the Department of National Defence as follows:
Stage 1 of the Request for Proposal for construction of a new supply depot in Moncton, New Brunswick was completed in December 1990.
a)	There have been twenty (20) responses to Stage 1 of the Request for Proposals.
b)	Current plans call for the contract to be awarded following the completion of Stage 2 of the Request for Proposal process. The timing of the release of Stage 2 has not yet been determined.


With respect to the Groundfish Development Program under the
Atlantic Fisheries Adjustment Program, (a) how many proposals have
been approved in Nova Scotia (b) what are the (i) names (ii) locations
of the successful applicants?


Time required to prepare this answer: 4 hours
Approximate cost: $72
I am informed by the Department of Fisheries and Oceans as follows:
The silver hake portion of the Groundfish Developmental Program was approved on March 20, 1991 and the following six companies in Nova Scotia were given allocations:
1.	Nova Scotia Dragger Fishermen's Association- Yarmouth
2.	IceKing Seafoods Ltd.-Bedford
3.	D'Eon Fisheries-West Pubnico
4.	Laurence Sweeney Fisheries-Halifax
5.	Arctic Fisheries Ltd.-Yarmouth
6.	Kwitamaqney Corporation-Cape Breton
The following companies were given allocations from the remaining stocks under the program on May 23, 1991:

September 17, 1991
Routine Proceedings
1.	National Sea Products Ltd.-Halifax
2.	Clearwater Fine Foods Inc.-Bedford
3.	Marque Resources-Bedford


With respect to the Fisheries Alternatives Program under the Atlantic Fisheries Adjustment Program, (a) how many proposals have been approved in Nova Scotia (b) what are the (i) names (ii) locations of the successful applicants?


Time required to prepare this answer: 5 hours and 20 minutes
Approximate Cost: $98.
I am informed by the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency as follows:
With respect to the Fisheries Alternatives Program under the Atlantic Fisheries Adjustment Program, there have been 11 proposals approved in Nova Scotia. The names and locations of these successful applicants are as follows:
1.	Town of Shelburne, Shelburne, N.S.
2.	Shelburne County Business Development Centre Limited, Shelburne, N.S.
3.	St. Francis Xavier University, Antigonish, N.S.
4.	Beverly Spears, Little Dover, N.S.
5.	Sandy Kavanaugh, Canso, N.S.
6.	Shelburne County Boatbuilders Association, Clarks Harbour, N.S.
7.	Guysborough Tourist Complex Limited, Guysbo-rough, N.S.
8.	Lockeport Recreation Enterprises Limited, Locke-port, N.S.
9.	John Jarvis Holdings Limited, Whitehead, N.S.
10.	The Dorian Motel, Canso, N.S.
11.	Louisbourg Harbourfront Park Limited, Louis-bourg, N.S.


1. Did the government issue a pamphlet in the beginning of 1991 regarding Child Resistant Packaging, subtitled Information for Seniors, and if so, (a) from which department were the funds allocated from (b) from what specific budgets were the funds obtained (c) what are the overall amounts of the budgets (d) to
whom were these pamphlets sent (e) what method was used in determining the recipients of these pamphlets (f) what is the total cost of distributing these pamphlets?
2. Was the contract for this printing put out to tender (a) was the cost of black-and-white printing considered over full-colour printing (b) what was the cost difference between black-and-white printing and full-colour printing (c) what is the total cost of printing this pamphlet?


Time required to prepare this answer: 11 hours and 20 minutes
Approximate cost: $204.
I am informed by the Department of National Health and Welfare as follows:
1.	Yes
(a)	As part of the Department of National Health and Welfare's increased communication emphasis, and in follow up to concerns over the misappropriate use and reliance on child-resistant packaging (CRP) that is intended to deter but not stop all child poisonings, the Department authorized publication of a pamphlet.
(b)	Funds were allocated from the Drugs Directorate operating budget.
(c)	The overall amount of this budget was $13,919,321.
(d)	The pamphlets were sent to all recipients of Family Allowance and Old Age Security cheques.
(e)	Family Allowance was chosen as a distribution vehicle as this method identifies on a national basis all families with children that may be impacted. Old Age Security recipients were also selected, again as a universal distribution mechanism, to reach grandparents who are caregivers and have children visit their home. Seniors have recognized difficulties with CRP and, therefore, often do not properly close the containers.
(f)	The total cost of distributing the pamphlets subtitled Information for Seniors was $2,949.00.
2.	The contract for printing this pamphlet was put out to tender.
(a)	The cost of black-and-white printing was considered.
(b)	The cost difference between black-and-white and full-colour printing was $5,808.68.

September 17, 1991

(c)	The total cost of printing this pamphlet was $52,806.11.


Since June 6, 1990, has any correspondence or communications been exchanged between the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Office, the Privy Council Office, any Cabinet Ministers and/or their agents and the Members of Parliament for Levis, his lawyer or anybody working on behalf of the Member for Levis, on the issue of Bill C-79, and, if so, (a) list the correspondence and communications (b) in any of the communications and/or correspondence was there a request for action with regard to Bill C-79, and, if so, list the persons who made the requests.


Time required to prepare this answer: 3 hours
Approximate cost: $54.
There was no correspondence or communications exchanged between the Privy Council Office and the Member of Parliament for Levis on the issue of Bill C-79. A copy of Order in Council P.C. 1991-813 dated May 7, 1991 was faxed to the Member of Parliament for Levis on May 7, 1991 from the Privy Council Office.
As for any communications between the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Office, Cabinet Ministers and the Member of Parliament for Levis, it is not the policy of the Government to divulge communications between Members of Parliament and Ministers.


Since June 6, 1990, has any correspondence or communications been exchanged between the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Office, the Privy Council Office, any Cabinet Ministers and/or their agents and the Member of Parliament for Lotbiniere, his lawyer or anybody working on behalf of the Member for Lotbiniere, on the issue of Bill C-79, and, if so (a) list the correspondence and communications (b) in any of the communications and/or correspondence was there a request for action with regard to Bill C-79, and, if so, list the persons who made the requests.
Mr. Albert Cooper (Parliamentary Secretary to Minister of State and Leader of the Government in the House
Routine Proceedings
of Commons): Time required to prepare this answer: 3 hours
Approximate cost: $54.
There was no correspondence or communications on the issue of Bill C-79 between the Privy Council Office and the Member of Parliament for Lotbiniere.
As for any communications between the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Office, Cabinet Ministers and the Member of Parliament for Lotbiniere, it is not the policy of the Government to divulge communications between the Members of Parliament and Ministers.

Question No. 36-Mr. Young (Acadie-Bathurst):
How many classification audits of Departmental Public Service
positions were completed in 1988,1989 and 1990 and, in each case,
what were the findings for each department?


Time required to prepare this answer: 5 hours and 25 minutes
Approximate cost: $97.
I am informed by the Treasury Board Secretariat as follows:
See attached.
During the 1988-89 biannual audit, 3,303 positions throughout the Public Service were audited. Two hundred and forty-eight, or 6.4 per cent of the sample, were considered to have been incorrectly evaluated. This is a significant improvement over the results of the last audit conducted in 1985-1986 when 11 percent of 3,568 positions were found to have been incorrectly classified.
Annex A shows the departments audited and the results for the biannual audits of 1988-1989 and 1985-1986.
The third triennial audit has been underway since February 1991. The departments should have completed their reports before the end of February 1992.

Routine Proceedings


DEPARTMENT	PERFORMANCE	PERFORMANCE
	1985-86	1988-89
PSC	96.0%	96.1%IDA	95.8%	96.0%CAE	95.0%	96.0%DND	95.0%	95.0%CSC	95.0%	93.0%SEC	94.0%	94.4%JUS	92.6%	92.0%DVA	92.2%	94.0%LAB	92.2%	92.0%COM	92.1%	90.2%NHW	92.0%	98.0%NCC	91.4%	-DFO	91.0%	93.0%EIC	91.0%	96.0%EXT	91.0%	96.0%DOE	90.4%	92.9%TBS	90.1%	94.4%AGR	89.8%	92.0%EMR	89.0%	88.0%ARC	88.9%	88.8%NLI	88.9%	93.3%CTC	88.9%	RIE	88.0%	CCA	87.3%	97.0%DSS	87.0%	87.9%MOT	86.0%	97.3%IAN	84.8%	93.5%FIN	80.4%	100%STC	79.2%	87.0%RCMP	78.6%	94.0%NMC	78.6%	-TAX	78.0%	92.0%DPW	70.6%	93.0%417 of 3,568 positions	248 of 3,303 positionsTOTAL	incorrectly evaluated	incorrectly evaluated(11%)	(6.4%)
For the classification audits of Departmental Public Service positions prior to 1988, have all the observations made relative to over classification etc. been corrected and, if not, which departmental audits have not been corrected and when will these be corrected?


Time required to prepare this answer: 5 hours and 32 minutes
Approximate cost: $98.
I am informed by the Treasury Board Secretariat as follows:
See attached.
The results of the 1985-1986 biannual audit showed 417 of a total sample of 3,568 positions had been incorrectly evaluated (11 percent error rate). Based on
available information, the vast majority, if not all, of the proposed corrective measures have been implemented to our satisfaction.
Since the last audit, Treasury Board Secretariat has introduced a number of control measures to ensure that each year the departments undertake classification control and audit activities. Reports are produced quarterly and annually for Treasury Board review and analysis in order to rate the departments on the quality of then-classification control systems. Only departments which have received a "Fully Satisfactory" rating and maintain a rate of incorrect decisions below 10 percent are granted increased classification authority.
This annual report is also one of the elements used in the comprehensive evaluation of the departments.


Is Charles Ng presently enrolled in any inmate pay programs, and,
if so, (a) which program (b) what level of inmate pay is he receiving?


Time required to prepare this answer: 4 hours and 5 minutes
Approximate cost: $74.
I am informed by the Department of the Solicitor General as follows:
Charles Ng is on an inmate pay program.
(a), (b);
Specific information pertaining to Mr. Ng's involvement in programming as well as the level of pay he may be receiving is personal information about Mr. Ng and therefore cannot be disclosed as it would contravene the Privacy Act.
Federal inmates may earn anywhere from $5.25 to $6.90 per day in an institution, depending on their performance on the job. Inmates willing to work but who are not working because of job shortages, medical reasons or lack of supervision receive a base rate of $1.60 per day. Inmates who refuse to either work or participate in institutional programs are not paid.


What is the total cost that the government will incur for the
complete relocation of (a) the Canadian Space Agency to St.
Hubert, Quebec (b) the National Energy Board to Calgary?


Time required to prepare this answer: 18 hours and 35 minutes
Approximate cost: $334.
September 17, 1991

I am informed as follows:
a)	Industry, Science and Technology Canada:
The total cost incurred to date by the Canadian Space Agency in relation to its relocation to St. Hubert is $334,488.
Public Works Canada:
The Canadian Space Agency (CSA) is presently located in leased premises at 500 Rene-Levesque Boulevard West in Montreal, in a building belonging to TRIZEC. The lease commenced January 1, 1991, and will terminate December 31, 1992, with two six-month options available.
The CSA occupies 2, 744.6 m2u (3,012.6 m2r) of office space spread out over several floors with nine interior parking spaces, at an annual cost of $1,054,259.37. The Agency also occupies 50.2 m2u (55.2 m2r) of storage space in the basement of the same building at an annual cost of $7,672.14.
The total to Public Works Canada for the interior fit-up of the Agency was $411,688.64.
b)	National Energy Board:
The NEB estimates that the relocation of the Board's operations to Calgary will cost $20.5 million. In addition, it is estimated that the department of Public Works will incur incremental cost of $6 million to lease and fit-up office accommodations for the Board. Eighty-five percent of these costs, or $22.5 million, will be recovered through cost recovery charges.
The cost related to the relocation of that portion of the Board which was transferred from the Canada Oil and Gas Lands Administration (approximately 15 percent) will be excluded from cost recovery.
The actual costs incurred by the government will be some $4 million.


1. With respect to the CIDA funding cuts to contracts for (a) CUSO (b) OCSD (c) Canadian Teachers' Federation (d) Canada World Youth (e) Canadian Crossroads International (f) CECI (i) what specific criteria were used to select each organization for cuts (ii) were the organizations consulted concerning these cuts and, if not, why not, (iii) why were these contracts not honoured (iv) will the anticipated savings of the CIDA funds as a result of these cuts be placed in the ODA program reserve?
Routine Proceedings
2. Does CIDA anticipate any further cuts to (a) the above noted
organizations (b) other organizations?


Time required to prepare this answer: 6 hours and 20 minutes
Approximate cost: $115.
I am informed by the Canadian International Development Agency as follows:
1.	i) CIDA has used the following criteria for each of the organizations mentioned:
-to make funds available to meet urgent new requests for official development assistance received or anticipated by the Government;
-to maintain support for the activities and programs identified as the main responsibilities of these organizations:
-not to jeopardize the viability of these organizations.
(ii)	No, because decisions resulting from the tabling of the February budget and the March estimates could not be finalized until just before the 1991-92 fiscal year began. CIDA hastened to make them available to partner organizations as quickly as possible, that is, before the fiscal year was well under way.
(iii)	CIDA does not have contracts with the NGOs mentioned, but rather contribution agreements. Multiyear contribution agreements between CIDA and Canada World Youth, Canadian Crossroads International, OCSD and the Canadian Teachers' Federation had to be amended owing to limited budgetary resources and the large number of new demands on official development assistance budget. Contribution agreements with CUSO and CECI had not yet been signed when the budgets for these organizations were announced. Furthermore, payments for multi-year contribution agreements are also subject to an appropriation by the Parliament of Canada for the fiscal year in which the payment is to be made.
(iv)	The funds saved will be used to meet the new demands on the official development assistance budget.
2.	a) No further reduction in CIDA's contributions to the organizations mentioned is planned in 1991-92.

September 17, 1991
Routine Proceedings
b) No further reductions are planned for CIDA's repayment of the principal at maturity. The maturity contributions to other organizations whose funding lev- date for all outstanding loans is twenty years from the els were reduced in 1991-92.	issue date.


Has money from the Canada Pension Plan been loaned to the federal government or to a provincial government and, if so, (a) which governments owe money to the Canada Pension Plan (b) how much does each government owe (c) what are the repayment arrangements (d) what rate of interest is being charged on outstanding loans?


Time required to prepare this answer: 3 hours and 45 minutes
Approximate cost: $69
I am informed by the Department of Finance as follows:
Money from the Canada Pension Plan has been loaned to the federal and provincial governments.
(a), (b)
The governments owing money to the Canada Pension Plan as at March 31,1991, and the amounts owing are as follows:
Newfoundland	781,175,000.00
Prince Edward Island	168,166,000.00
Nova Scotia	1,428,780,000.00
New Brunswick	1,058,357,000.00
Quebec	136,076,000.00
Ontario	17,042,716,000.00
Manitoba	2,031,122,000.00
Saskatchewan	1,686,077,000.00
Alberta	4,534,771,000.00
British Columbia	5,298,482,000.00
Yukon	3,726,000.00
Norhtwest Territories	0.00
Canada	3,492,216,000.00
Total	37,661,664,000.00
(c) The repayment arrangements consist of semi-annual interest payments on the principal amount and full
(d)	The rate of interest being charged on outstanding loans varies as outlined in the Canada Pension Plan- Part III, Section III, Paragraph (2)(a). The Act states that the rate is calculated as follows:
"in the case of an obligation having a term to maturity of twenty years, on the basis of the average yield to maturity as determined by the Minister of Finance of all outstanding obligations of the Goverment of Canada that are not limited or restricted as to the negotiability or the transfer or assignment thereof and that have terms to maturity of twenty years or more, weighted according to the amounts of those obligations then outstanding,
__yy


What steps has the CRTC taken towards implementing
recommendations of PSAC 2000?


Time required to prepare this answer: 5 hours and 5 minutes
Approximate cost: $92.
I am informed by the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission as follows:
The Commission, in the spirit of PS2000 had, in the Fall of 1990, initiated an internal consultative process with employees. Known as the Employee Consultative Committee (ECC), its objective was to allow employees the opportunity to identify issues and concerns in their work environment.
The process was structured around focus groups animated by a professional in the management communication field, and supported by questionnaires completed by staff. 'The process resulted in a report identifying close to 70 recommendations for change dealing with every aspect of the work environment from air quality to improving management styles.
Senior management of the Commission gave the ECC report its approval and support, and established, in the spring of 1991, the "Task Force for Revitalization", a committee of six employees with a six month mandate to act as a catalyst for change within the Commission. The Task Force's role is to implement, as soon as possible, all recommendations of the ECC report that prove feasible.
September 17, 1991

Two months into the Task Force's mandate, several initiatives have begun to address employees' immediate concerns, such as overcrowding of office space and an orientation program and kit for new and existing employees. The Task Force is also addressing the broader questions of career development by, among other things, examining the possibility of establishing an assignment program. The question of how the operational budget concept and management accountability will be introduced is being addressed by a pilot project in three branches. A complete review of the performance appraisal system is being undertaken, including the introduction of an incentive and awards system.
In terms of the PS2000 focus on service to the public, the Commission had, prior to the tabling of the PS2000 White Paper, undertaken internal reviews on streamlining its operations in both broadcasting (Ross 'Iask Force) and telecommunications (Sherman Task Force). Each of these studies had a specific goal of improving turnaround time of decisions and public notices and reducing the associated costs to the Commission's clients.
In addition, because of the nature of its regulatory system (primarily through the public hearing process), the Commission has always undertaken extensive consultation with its clients as part of its policy formulation and decision-making process.


1.	Has the government been supplied with a list of tobacco (a) additives (b) constituents as required by sections 17 and 19 of the Tobacco Products Control Regulations?
2.	Is the government aware of the presence of such additives and constituents as (a) propanediol (b) glycerol (c) diethylene glycol (d) triethylene glycol (e) D-sorbitol contained in (i) tobacco (ii) wrappers (iii) filters (iv) main or sidestream smoke and, if so, is the government aware that such substances can cause cancer?


Time required to prepare this answer: 9 hours and 5 minutes
Approximate cost: $169.
I am informed by the Department of National Health and Welfare as follows:
1. Yes.
Routine Proceedings
2. (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) and (i), (ii), (iii), (iv)
The information provided under sections 17 and 19 are considered to be trade secrets by the tobacco industry whose members have requested confidentiality. This request to confidentiality legally prohibits the Department of National Health and Welfare from answering whether these chemicals actually are being used by the Canadian tobacco industry.
The chemicals referred to by the hon. member can be used as humectants by the tobacco industry to promote retention of moisture. Of the five chemicals, for only one, diethylene glycol, is there limited evidence of carcinogenicity in animals. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) has yet to establish whether this compound is a potential carcinogen. The other four chemicals have not been shown to be carcinogenic in studies conducted to date.


Has the Department of National Health and Welfare audited all accounts connected with the National AIDS Research Program in respect to the establishment of a National AIDS Registry and, if so, (a) what were the findings (b) were usual standards of accounting and project management adhered to (c) has the advice of the Auditor General or other outside source of professional advice been sought to ensure that such standards will apply to federally-sponsored research projects?


Time required to prepare this answer: 8 hours and 5 minutes
Approximate cost: $145.
I am informed by the Department of National Health and Welfare as follows:
The Department of National Health and Welfare requested the Audit Services Bureau of the Department of Supply and Services to carry out an audit of the University of Toronto's accounts with respect to a Contribution Agreement between the University and the Department for the design phase of a Treatment Information System for AIDS/HIV (TISAH). This audit was for the period June 15, 1990 to December 31, 1991.
(a)	The audit found that expenditures of $386,870 were appropriately incurred against this project, subject to the

September 17, 1991
Routine Proceedings
acceptance by the Department of one non-arms length transaction in the amount of $27,000.
(b)	The audit included a general review of the accounting procedures and such tests of accounting records and other supporting evidence as the auditors considered necessary to conduct their audit.
(c)	The Auditor General periodically reviews the Department's contribution programs; the Department implements recommendations made as a result of these audits. All contribution agreements of the Department contain a clause which requires the recipient of Contributions funding to maintain appropriate financial accounts and records. The right of audit by the Federal Government is a standard clause in all such contribution agreements.


Has the Department of National Health and Welfare taken a public position against the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission Public Notice 1990-86 entitled "Proposed Amendments to the Television Broadcasting Regulations, 1987, Radio Regulations, 1986 and Specialty Services Regulations, 1990" regarding the advertising of hard liquor beverages and, if so, what is the budget of the department for anti-alcohol abuse advertising on broadcast media for the fiscal years (a) 1989-90 (b) 1990-91 (c) 1991-92?


Time required to prepare this answer: 6 hours and 55 minutes
Approximate cost: $125.
I am informed by the Department of National Health and Welfare as follows:
The Department of National Health and Welfare has taken a public position against the CRTC Public Notice
1990-86. The Public Notice specified that public comments should relate to specific evidence (or the lack thereof) in support of or against the distinction made by the existing regulations in the broadcast advertising of beer, wine, coolers and spirits.
The Minister's response to the CRTC indicated that this was not a useful approach because the question posed cannot be given either an affirmative or a negative answer.
The Minister emphasized his belief that it does not serve the public interest to make a decision on the proposed amendments on the basis of comments for which no adequate scientific answer is available. At the
same time, basing a decision on responses to this question alone ignores broader and more relevant issues raised by the proposed regulatory amendments.
The Minister's submission to the CRTC also indicated that, while the Association of Canadian Distillers might initially restrict itself to its stated intentions of airing only moderation messages, the Association might decide at a later date to exercise its right to advertise its products. The Minister emphasized his concerns that this could lead to a significant increase in the total volume of broadcast ads promoting alcohol products, thus increasing the exposure of children and adolescents to such product promotions. In addition, the visibility of cautionary messages concerning the negative consequences of unwise alcohol use would be further obscured by the resultant increases in promotional messages about drinking.
The Department implements two public awareness and information campaigns which address issues related to alcohol abuse: the "Really Me/Drogues, pas besoinV campaign of Canada's Drug Strategy; and the "Play it Smart/Afoi, j'ai toute ma tetel" campaign of the National Program on Impaired Driving.
(a)	1989-90
Radio:
Television:
Total:
(b)	1990-91
Radio:
Television:
Total:
(a) 1991-92 (Projected)
Radio:
Television:
Total:


Does the federal government support the International Code of Marketing of Breastmilk Substitutes developed by UNICEF and the World Health Organization for adoption into legally enforceable legislation for all countries and (a) if so, what efforts are being made to have the Code adopted in Canada and when will the Code take effect (b) if not, why not?


September 17, 1991
Time required to prepare this answer: 4 hours and 55 minutes
Approximate cost: $89.
I am informed by the Department of National Health and Welfare as follows:
Although the federal government supports in principle the World Health Organization (WHO) International Code of Marketing of Breast-Milk Substitutes, it does not support the adoption of the WHO International Code into legally enforceable legislation for all countries. Because of the universal scope of the WHO International Code, some of its provisions are neither applicable nor appropriate for implementation in Canada.
The Department has for almost a decade supported breastfeeding as the preferred form of infant feeding. Canada also played a key role in developing and promoting the WHO International Code of Marketing of Breast-Milk Substitutes.
In 1981, after the adoption of the Code by the World Health Assembly, the Department obtained unanimous support for the aim and principles of the Code from all Canadian provinces.
The provinces felt that the Code should be implemented in Canada through education and health promotion rather than through legislation or regulations.
The Department has consistently taken a strong position with the Canadian infant formula industry and urged them to assume their responsabilities under the International Code. In 1987, departmental negotiations with the formula industry, through the Canadian Infant Formula Association (CIFA), led to the industry's agreement to respect the aim and principles of the International Code of Marketing of Breast-Milk Substitutes.
On October 28, 1987, CIFA members voluntarily adopted the CIFA Code of Practice.
The CIFA Code represents the industry position on the WHO International Code as adapted to the Canadian situation.
In addition, Canada recently signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, again
Routine Proceedings
affirming our support for breastfeeding as a contribution to children's health. The Convention is now being reviewed for ratification.


Has the Long Plains Indian Reserve ever filed a land claim related to property currently being used by Canadian Forces Base Portage la Prairie and, if so, when and under what conditions was it filed?


Time required to prepare this answer: 4 hours and 5 minutes
Approximate cost: $73.
I am informed by the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development as follows:
No, the Long Plain Indian Band has not filed a claim to land being used by the Canadian Forces Base near Portage La Prairie. However, the band does have a general claim under treaty for additional land. On May 10, 1991, the band submitted a band council resolution stating its interest in acquiring the land Canadian Forces Base Portage La Prairie as part of a settlement of the claim because the base is in its treaty area.


With respect to the Prime Minister's diplomatic trip to Japan in May 1991, was a private jet used because of possible delays in the originally scheduled flight and, if so, (a) what was the gross additional cost of the private charter (b) what was the difference in net cost between the original scheduled flight and the subsequent private charter (c) who was scheduled to travel on the original flight (d) who travelled with the Prime Minister on the private charter (e) was there a difference in the passenger lists between the original scheduled flight and the private charter?


Time required to prepare this answer: 2 hours and 25 minutes
Approximate cost: $44.
I am informed by the Offices of the Prime Minister and the Privy Council as follows:
No.


With respect to the Goods and Services Thx, how many individuals have qualified for the maximum GST credit and had the rebate fully withheld and applied to outstanding tax arrears?

September 17, 1991
Routine Proceedings


Time required to prepare this answer: 4 hours
Approximate cost: $72.
I am informed by the Department of National Revenue as follows:
Goods and Services Tax (GST) Credits are determined each year based on family status and income. Individuals may apply for GST Credit benefits on behalf of themselves, their spouses and their children. As a result, there is a maximum GST Credit which differs for each possible family make-up. For example, the maximum GST Credit based on 1990 GST Credit application forms for a single person with no children is $290, for a single person with one child is $480, for a spouse claiming on behalf of a family with two children is $580 and so on, adding $100 for each additional eligible child.
Revenue Canada, Taxation does not maintain statistics on the number of individuals who received the maximum GST Credits for their particular family make-ups nor does the Department track the number of individuals who had their full GST Credit applied against outstanding tax arrears. To date, approximately 4 per cent of the total value of GST Credit benefits have been applied to outstanding tax liabilities or whitheld pursuant to court orders under the Family Orders and Agreements Enforcement Assistance Act.


With respect to the recent three year joint marketing accord signed between Tourism Canada and the Saga Group Ltd., (a) how many similar joint agreements were signed during the fiscal year 1990-91 (b) how much money has been devoted to the distribution of promotional material?


Time required to prepare this answer: 21 hours and 50 minutes
Approximate cost: $394.
I am informed by the Minister of State (Small Businesses and Tourism) as follows:
a)	Nil
b)	A total of $412,000 was devoted to the distribution of promotional material in 1990/91.


With respect to the Atlantic Fisheries Adjustment Package (AFAP), will the government provide assistance to fishermen in need of assistance to remain in the groundfish fishing industry and, if so, (a) what is the total dollar amount allocated and/or spent for (i) each Atlantic province (ii) Quebec (b) how many people in (i) each Atlantic province (ii) Quebec have received or will receive assistance?


Time required to prepare this answer: 7 hours
Approximate cost: $126.
I am informed by the Department of Fisheries and Oceans as follows:
There are components of the Atlantic Fisheries Adjustment Program (AFAP) which will assist fishermen to diversify their operations and/or improve the economic viability of their fishing enterprise.
(a)	(i) & (ii) Allocations of funds are not made on a provincial basis. Fishermen can submit proposals for funding to Fisheries and Oceans (DFO) to undertake a particular project which will benefit their fishing operations. However, the Program is not meant to subsidize their fishing activity but rather to complement their present activity for greater viability.
(b)	(i) & (ii) To date about forty (40) fishermen and fishermen groups have received funding. Indirectly, funds provided to processors have also benefitted fishermen by opening new markets for underutilized species. The number of fishermen receiving funds under AFAP depends on the number of proposals received and the amount of funding available over the five year program to fund those proposals.


1.	With respect to commissions paid to private real estate agents by the Department of National Defence, (a) is there an established commission rate and, if so, what is it (b) are there any regional variations and, if so, what are they (c) during 1990, what was the rate amount paid per base, for the sale or purchase of residences belonging to military personnel in Canada?
2.	With respect to Canadian Forces Base Kingston, what are the names of the real estate agents who received commissions and how much did each agent receive?


Time required to prepare this answer: 18 hours and 10 minutes.

September 17, 1991

Approximate cost: $328.
I am informed by the Department of National Defence as follows:
1.	The Department of National Defence has no pecuniary relationship with any private real estate agents. All payments for real estate fees are made to military members as reimbursement for commissions paid to agents contracted by the individual members to sell their private residences.
a)	The Department normally will not reimburse fees that are based on a rate of commission higher than the multiple listing rate recommended by the area real estate board;
b)	rates vary between provinces and municipalities and because the Department does not deal directly with agents, no record of actual rates paid is maintained;
c)	as rates are set by local area real estate boards for the general public, the Department does not keep track of the rates paid by base.
2.	Because the Department does not deal directly with real estate agents, and Departmental information systems have not yet perfected the cost capturing of relocation expenses such as real estate fees to this level of detail, payments to individual agents are not tracked separately. As such, there is no practical way to determine an accurate dollar value of real estate fees reimbursed to members at CFB Kingston.


In 1989, did the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada deny a request to have St. Mary's Cathedral in Halifax, N.S., declared a national historic building or a building of architectural significance and, if so, (a) what were the reasons for the refusal (b) how many other applications were made and refused?


Time required to prepare this answer: 8 hours and 35 minutes
Approximate cost: $154.
I am informed by the Department of the Environment as follows:
a) At its February 1989 meeting the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada (HSMBC) considered the possible national significance of St. Mary's Basilica in Halifax, N.S. It was the Board's recommendation that:
Routine Proceedings
While St. Mary's Basilica was undoubtedly of considerable regional importance given its place in the history of Catholicism in Nova Scotia, it was not prepared to recommend that the Cathedral was of national historic or architectural significance.
Further, the Board stated that it would be pleased to give further consideration to the possibility of erecting a plaque at the Basilica, should studies be presented to it in the future, on religious leaders in Canada or examining themes such as the emancipation of Nova Scotia Catholics, which indicated that such action was indeed warranted.
b) Other applications made and refused in 1989 include:
1)	Naval and Military Establishments, Penetangui-shene, Ont.
2)	Old Brewery Bay (Leacock Residence), Orillia, Ont.
3)	Kingston General Hospital, Kingston, Ont.
4)	Pearse House, Scarborough, Ont.
5)	Chalmers Wesley United Church, Quebec, Que.
6)	Former Public Market, Sainte-Scholastique, Que.
7)	Peake Buildings, Charlottetown, P.E.I.


Has the government taken any steps to stop clearcut logging in
Wood Buffalo National Park and, if so, what are they?


Time required to prepare this answer: 9 hours and 5 minutes
Approximate cost: $164.
I am informed by the Department of the Environment as follows:
The Canadian Parks Service has been negotiating with Canadian Forest Products Ltd. since January 1991 to seek an end to the legal logging operations in Wood Buffalo National Park. Progress continues to be made through these negotiations.
Commencing in January 1991, the Canadian Parks Service and Canadian Forest Products Ltd. agreed to new harvesting standards for the logging operations which better protect the natural ability of the forest to grow back after logging. These standards will apply to any future logging operations, if they should occur.

September 17, 1991
Routine Proceedings


For the fiscal year 1991-92, has the government allocated any (a) financial (b) personnel resources to the enforcement of the Canadian Environmental Protection Act and, if so, what are they?


Time required to prepare this
answer:	6 hours and 50 minutes
Approximate cost:	$124
I am informed by the Department of the Environment as follows:
Environment Canada (a) $3.8 million
(b) 45 Enforcement Officers Justice Canada	(a) $904 K


Mr. Speaker, if questions Nos. 1, 9,19 and 38 could be made Orders for Returns, these returns would be tabled immediately.


Is it the pleasure of the House that Questions Nos. 1, 9, 19, 38 be deemed to have been made Orders for Returns?


Agreed.


Since 1990, for the Race Relations and Cross Cultural Under-standing Program, (a) which groups and individuals have received grants or contributions (b) how much did each receive (c) for what event and/or purpose was the money given?
Return tabled.


Since 1900, has Canada Customs prohibited, subjected to administrative review or classified for restricted circulation any books, magazines, pamphlets and/or flyers intended for import and, if so, (a) what were their titles (b) what were the reasons for prohibition, review or classification for restricted circulation (c) for each title listed, what was the time during which prohibition, review or classification for restricted circulation was in force?
Return tabled.


Has Revenue Canada retained the services of consultants to install and operate any of the hardware or software relating to the administration of the GST and, if so, in each case (a) what is their name (b) what is their usual address of business (c) were they chosen by public tender process and, if not, (d) why not (e) when were their services contracted (f) how long are the contracts (g) what is the cost?
Return tabled.


How many audits on Departmental Contract Administration were made in 1989 and 1990 by Central Agencies (a) of which departments (b) what were the findings by department?
Return tabled.


Mr. Speaker, would you be so kind as to call starred questions Nos. 8, 13, 14, 26, 27, 34, 97 and 98.
Because of the number and the length of some of these responses, I would ask that they be printed in Hansard as if read.

*


During the period from October 1,1990 to June 1,1991, has VIA Rail had to cancel passenger trains, due to unexpected circumstances, on the following three return routes: Montreal-Senneterre, Seneterre-La Sarre and Senneterre-Cochrane, and, if trains have been cancelled on these routes (i) on which routes (ii) for what reasons (iii) the dates and times of the cancellations (iv) the number of passengers affected (v) how many taxis did VIA Rail send in each case (vi) for how many passengers (vii) at what cost (viii) how many buses did

VIA Rail rent to transport the passengers (ix) at what cost, and (x) how
much did it cost VIA Rail for meals and rooms for the passengers?


Time required to prepare this answer: 33 hours and 51 minutes
Approximate cost: $610.
I am informed by the Department of Transport as follows:
VIA Rail Canada Inc. advises as follows:
(i to x)
From October 1, 1990 to December 9, 1990, on Tuesdays and Thursdays the Senneterre-Cochrane trains were turned at Taschereau. Because of the poor condition of the track between Taschereau and Cochrane it was impossible for these trains to complete the round-trip in time to depart Senneterre for Montreal on schedule. VIA did not provide transport during this period beyond Taschereau on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
On March 28, 1991, the Senneterre-Montreal train was terminated at Hervey because of a freight derailment and 58 passengers were transferred by bus to Montreal. Two buses were used, one local and one express, at a cost of $790.50.
On May 29, 1991, as a result fo the same derailment, 60 passengers were bused from Montreal to Hervey where they boarded the train for Senneterre. Two buses were used, one local and one direct, at a cost of $790.50.
On May 26, 1991, the Senneterre-Montreal train was terminated at Duplessis due to a freight derailment. The 100 passengers were transported on three buses to La Tuque. Ninety of the passengers continued on two buses from La Tuque to Montreal. On arrival in Montreal, three passengers were accommodated at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel. The cost of meals and accommodation was approximately $3,600.00 and $2,800.19 was paid to charter the buses.
On May 27, 1991, as a result of the same derailment, the Montreal-Senneterre train and ten passengers were transported by bus from Montreal to La Tuque at a cost of $1,070.00. Train service was cancell