The House resumed from Thursday, March 7, consideration of the motion of Mr. Mazankowski that Bill C-98, an act authorizing agreements between the Government of Canada and the provinces to provide for protection for the income of producers of agricultural products and to enable the Government of Canada to take additional measures for that purpose, be read the second time and referred to the Standing Committee on Agriculture.
Madam Speaker, it is certainly a pleasure to rise in the House this morning to speak on Bill C-98, the Farm Income Protection Act.
At the outset I want to point out to the House and to make very clear and understandable to Canadians, to those who will be reading the proceedings and to those who are watching this morning, that even though there has been a lot of talk about a farm safety net program being implemented in Canada basically for the immediate use of the primary producers, and therefore hopefully of some benefit to the whole agrifood industry, this bill is only an enabling piece of legislation. I know that is the case with many bills that we pass in the House of Commons or that are brought forth.
When we read through this bill, we have to understand that it really does not say very much in terms of
answering the questions of the agricultural industry. This bill is going to allow the government and the minister to go province to province throughout this country and make the deal that is most suitable, hopefully, to the individual province. There are pluses and minuses to that. There is the plus that it can recognize regional diversity and regional differences, but there is the minus that it allows the deals to be made. That part of is tends to make some of us nervous.
I have other concerns that I would like to raise this morning, but first of all I would like to compliment the department on the manner in which it went through the process of getting this piece of legislation in place. I also want to remind the government not to get too excited about that, because in recent days I have talked to some people who were involved in that process, in what was referred to as the implementation committee which started to meet last fall, a cross-section of the industry, including many farmers. It is interesting that the members of the implementation committee did not get a copy of this legislation until about 48 hours ago. In speaking to some of them, they were absolutely appalled that much of what is in this piece of legislation was not discussed by the implementation committee, was not debated with them and, contrary to the comments of the minister in the House yesterday, they will not and cannot take ownership.
I noted with interest yesterday that the minister said that he takes no ownership. I believe his comments were: "We claim no ownership of this particular policy." That is a beautiful way of putting it. He went on further to comment yesterday that he hopes it works. Politicians being what they sometimes are accused of, if it works I am sure the minister naturally will take claim.
I am concerned with the fact that there are clauses in that bill which the implementation committee was not expecting to see, does not understand why they are there and, rightfully I think, needs an explanation of what is there. I am sure that those points, when the bill goes to committee, will be raised by all parties and hopefully can be cleared up at that time.

March 8, 1991
Government Orders
As I said before, I compliment the department on the over-all view that it accepted and took part in from the different sectors of the industry.
There is no question that something needs to be done. The agricultural industry is in dire straits mainly at the primary producer level. I have seen figures over the years that every dollar received at the farm gate by primary producers, before it is through the system in our society, is multiplied seven times. We must keep that in mind. That emphasizes a saying that many of us have said for many years: "As goes agriculture, so goes the strength of any economy".
I would like to read clause 4(2)(a) of the bill and then raise some concerns that I have.
Clause 4(2)(a) reads as follows:
The program should not unduly influence the decision of producers of agricultural products with respect to production or marketing, and should encourage adjustments with respect to production or marketing so as to improve the effectiveness of the responses of producers to market opportunities.
As well, the bill is to address production or market neutrality, equity, consistency within international obligations and encouragement of long-term environmental sustainability and responsibility.
I have some concerns there. I can tell this House that unfortunately-and I mean that sincerely-GRIP is being farmed by producers. I know there will be people who argue that that cannot happen, but unfortunately it is. If there is one thing we do not need in the agricultural industry, it is something to change the decisions that producers make and not pay as much attention to market indications, to market prices and to market returns as they should.
I recognize fully that it is extremely difficult and maybe impossible to put a program in place which does not have that use made of it. In talking to individuals from different parts of Canada in the last number of weeks, the decisions on what they plant this year in many cases are going to depend on what they see in the short run being returned to them from the GRIP payments.
One can say that should not happen and, if they are looking at the long-term good of agriculture, they should not be doing that. I agree. What has happened in the short term in agriculture, especially at the primary producer level in the last number of years, is that even though farmers know what is the long run proper thing
to do as far as environmental conservation and long run investments are concerned, for example, they unfortunately and realistically have to survive in the short term. They have to satisfy the needs of their banker for the next 12 months, as well as their personal needs, the needs of their family and their social needs in the next 12 months. They may very well be forced into looking at what is sustainable economically, and economically only, for them in the short term and therefore have to neglect what would be best not only for their own individual operation in business, but collectively for the over-all good of the farmers and producers in the long run in order to get through until next year. We will worry about next year when next year comes.
I have some grave concerns that in the short term these programs may and I know are influencing cropping practices for this year and the direction of the crops.
In the same light, it is definitely going to encourage thoughts and actions toward cropping practices that are not the best for agriculture and for the good of all of us as Canadians as far as environmental sustainability is concerned.
There is encouragement with this and I know there are some safeguards that are being put in place. I advise the minister and hope it will take it under advisement that safeguards must be watched with this to prohibit what will likely occur in many cases. That is what we refer to in the primary producer sector as planting fence row to fence row.
One of the problems we have in Canadian agriculture at the present time is that we are planting crops on marginal land. Because they do not yield and because of the many attempts to get a decent yield, input costs are high. The yields are just not available from that type of property or land resource, therefore when the yields are obtained they have a high cost of production.
As far as adding something constructive, I wish there were something we could do. I hope that we are looking at it. I know that many of us are looking at a certain type of program.
I think we should consider-and it will have a shortterm cost but I think it will have a long-term benefittaking some of the marginal land in this country, which programs like this encourage farming, out of production
March 8, 1991

and using it for something else. This means that the land that is being farmed can be used at a more profitable and realistic level, and we will all be better off environmentally.
The other concern I have is whether this program is going to be accepted as it should be in international trading circles. The question that many of us ask is, is it "GATIhble"? In other words, is it acceptable at GATT? I have to have confidence that this is being looked at.
But when I look at some programs that we have had in the past in Canada, programs we thought were safe, we thought were untouchable as far as other countries were concerned, were not. Some of those which we have been able to protect effectively, and I refer to the on-going saga of countervail duties on live pork and fresh chilled and frozen pork, we have had those to GATT panels, we have had them to free trade panels, and we win one day and lose a few days later.
Our trading partner to the south is very effective because, as they have a different way of funding these disputes than we have here in Canada, as soon as the producers convince the government, it funds all of the court cases. The United States is successful in keeping the cases in the courts, in the dispute panels or the GATT panels, until a lot of damage is done.
I have a lot of concerns. And I only hope that because this program is theoretically offered right across the country, to all producers, that this will be acceptable to them.
The other concern I have is about what will happen to the GRIP program, in particular, as far as the premiums are concerned. As I said from the outset, this is an enabling legislation and producers are out there now buying the sizzle to this legislation and I do not blame them. In the short-term, quite frankly, they cannot afford not to. The banking industry is saying, yes, we want you to join. It is giving the producer something that is bankable, no question of that, in the short term. But I am also hearing many, many producers asking, where is this going to leave us in the long term? What is going to happen to our premiums in the long term?
The base prices that are being used are at a percentage of a 15-year average. And we all know what can happen to 15-year averages, especially in the case of some crops
Government Orders
and some products when the peaks in those prices drop off. Every year we have to remember that one year drops off at the beginning of that period and another one adds on at the end. If those peaks drop off, and especially with what has been happening in many crops in the last few years where prices have been low and there is nothing in the foreseeable future to make us think that we are going to have any major increases in prices-especially in the grain situation-and we know that just is not going to happen. Probably the prices we have now are far closer to normal than they have been for some time, and they will likely stay around that range.
So, what is going to happen to those average prices? I will tell you what is going to happen to those average prices, they will go down. Unfortunately, reality enters the picture and the cost of production goes up.
The minister said yesterday, and it is understandable, that in the short term the GRIP program will go into deficit. Once any program is in deficit when the premiums are examined in the future they will be examined with the hope that the deficit can be recovered by the premiums.
The concern I have and the concern of many producers is that as the long-term benefits of this type of program are looked at in the future, the guaranteed gross revenue per acre is going to come down. The cost of production is going to go up and probably the premiums are going to go up as well. Because of the type of program that it is, the bill cannot allow-and I agree-individuals to get in and out whenever they want, but when a producer signs up he is in for four years. If it just does not pencil out into black ink down the road in three, four or five years, the producer is caught and has to stay in the program. There is a lot of concern about that. I suggest that must be examined.
Another concern I have is there is nothing in the legislation, that I can see, that says there will be a national supervisory committee. The legislation says that the results of this legislation will have to be reviewed, I believe by April 1, 1996, which is basically five years, and every five years after that. But there is nothing in the legislation that says there must be and there is an ongoing committee to review this legislation all through next year and each year as we go on. I think it is important that that be done.

March 8, 1991
Government Orders
I see my time is running out. The other program basically, and there are others, is NISA, the Net Income Stabilization Account. Not a lot of provinces have agreed to take that on. I agree, it is an excellent program as far as individual fanners are concerned. It is costly as far as governments are concerned.
I have some long-term concerns on that program as well. Can we, in the agricultural industry-and I hope we can-justify those types of expenditures to the rest of Canadians? It is a registered retirement type of fund. Unfortunately, it is not going to help those who are struggling in agriculture because they will not be able to put money in it. They simply will not have the dollars to deposit.
The bill is an honest and good attempt and a bill that I can support. It is going to create a situation that I know is going to require a lot of monitoring. It will require some discussion at the committee level. It disappoints me that again we have an agricultural bill brought into the House on a Monday and the government says we have to get it through in a hurry. We have done this with several other bills. I wish there was not always the urgency. This concern and this requirement has been there for some time. I wish there was not always the urgency when this comes forward.
I am hearing more and more, in the last couple of days, of individuals and groups that want to discuss this bill with the committee and I hope the government will allow the time. I know it will be encouraged to allow the time to listen to them. There is more to discuss. It is better than what we have at the present time, but it needs monitoring. It can be improved and I look forward to all of us doing that for the agrifood industry.


Madam Speaker, before I direct my comments and questions to the hon. member for Prince Edward-Hastings, I would like to say that on occasion, and probably unintentionally, the hon. member has referred to a member's being absent from the House. However, to be fair, this morning I would nevertheless like to take this opportunity to refer to the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister responsible for Agriculture. His presence is to be commended. It shows he is interested in agriculture and also has great respect for the House and its members.

Now, to my colleague from Prince Edward-Hastings, I share his support, in principle, for the bill. I think he raised some very real concerns and we do hope that they will be addressed in committee.
Members in the House familiar with the member from Prince Edward-Hastings are only too familiar with his knowledge and particularly his commitment to agriculture.
I would like to ask my colleague how this legislation is being perceived and received by agriculture industry groups across Canada.


Madam Speaker, I thank my colleague for his question. I think in all honesty that in general it is being received quite well. However, what concerns me is that as time goes on nervousness is increasing.
I echo the sentiments of my colleague that the minister has been here for this debate and I appreciate that. But there are concerns. Probably the province that is promoting this legislation and has been for three or four months, more quickly and with more energy and enthusiasm than anyone else, is Saskatchewan and its premier. Those that follow politics know the reason for that. Mr. Devine has some problems and concerns, not only financially but otherwise. In a lighter vein, in the last 24 hours I see he does not even know what a riding is. There is some question on who represents where in the province.
I noted that one of the premier's ministers, the Minister for Rural Development in Saskatchewan, said, "farmers are not getting enough time to make an informed decision on this. The cattlemen have some concerns."
When the minister made his statement yesterday and he read that "cattlemen say that they choke on GRIP," I wondered to myself, why? Their concern points out the concern I raised a few minutes ago that this program is probably going to redistribute the cropping acreage throughout Canada. Looking at the figures, it is evident that it encourages production of some crops more than others. The beef industry is a major user, especially in
March 8, 1991

the west, of barley. The beef industry is concerned that the program may redistribute the acreage, for example, to crops other than barley, therefore creating a shortage in barley, increasing the price of barley on the open market, and thereby increasing the cost of their production.
Forage seed growers have concerns as well. There is no question, as I said before, that the banking industry is happy, and rightfully so. I can tell you from experience that this program serves a very worth-while purpose because an individual can go to a bank manager and say, "Madam, or sir, I can guarantee you that this is what my returns will be per acre." That has not been possible for farm producers, for agriculture producers in the past. That part of it is good.
My real concern, and I am sincere on this, is about what we are going to do with this type of program in the long run. We are all sincere, we are all trying to do our best. I am not sure that enough study has been given and time has been taken to look at the long term. It is going to do the job this year and next year. The government has said it will put money into the program. I hate to say this, but the government will put money into the program, especially in the next couple of years before there is another federal election, but that is not what is going to dictate the action. The markets are going to dictate it; the uncertainty about what is happening in GATT; the impossibility at the present time of settling things at GATT.
The discussions for a GATT settlement that we hoped would happen by December 1, 1990 may go on for another couple of years. If it does go on for another couple of years, we know the trade games and the subsidy games that are going to be played between those two big treasuries that we cannot compete with, the European Community and the United States. As a country, we just cannot play in that game. If we cannot play in that game, it will depress prices and on and on, which means these types of programs are going to have higher than ever pay-outs. We are going to have to make those. They are going to be needed. It is going to keep us going in the short term, there is no question about that.
Unfortunately, what has always been and may always be throughout the world is that the primary producers are kind of "next-year" people. Hopefully, this can be the beginning of a type of program or a combination of
Government Orders
programs that can be worked on, monitored, pushed and poked over the next number of years so that producers can get more out of their products, so that they are not just living hand to mouth for 12 months, hoping to get through until the next year.


Madam Speaker, I would just like to have the hon. member make a comment or two.
He spoke briefly about the moral hazard of the program. Farmers will be making decisions as a result of the program, switching acreage, and probably bringing marginal land into production. Is that not a self-defeating purpose? I do not believe that farmers look at the program that way. They are looking for a bankable program, with long-term objectives in mind. Any program has the risk of moral hazard. Is the hon. member saying that the programs are being funded with too much money and that the programs are too rich, allowing this to happen?


Madam Speaker, I want to remind my colleague that I said I did not like to see that type of thing happen, but in reality that is what, according to what I am being told on the concessions, is happening. Because of the financial situations that individual farmers may very well be in and their sector of the industry may very well be in, they have to look, as any business person has to, at what is the best and easiest way to come up with the biggest figure in the bottom right hand comer of the balance sheet for this year. In reality, that is what is happening. Even though, as I said, and I hope I made it very clear, that is not what they should be doing. They know they should not be looking at it that way, but they are forced into doing that.
As far as investment in the program, I am not saying and I did not say, that there are too many dollars going into the program. What I am saying and what I did say, is that the dollars that will go in there have to be monitored. We have to be able to explain to all Canadians why they are needed and we have to justify-as anyone does, as any government does, as any parliamentarian does- the actions. I think we have to do a better job, as a department, as a government, as opposition members, as players in the industry, of explaining to Canadians why it is there.

March 8, 1991
Government Orders
I was very upset, and I have been upset more than once, when a certain kind of question went to a member of the cabinet and the cabinet member stood up and said: "This is another example of x millions of dollars this government has given to farmers". I get very annoyed at that. That is an excellent opportunity for the minister to explain to Canadians why that is a good investment.
As I said, as goes agriculture, so goes the industry, so goes the economy of any country. It is money well spent, as long as it is well monitored.


Madam Speaker, I am pleased to be able to participate in this debate regarding Bill C-98. This piece of legislation has been promised to the Canadian public and to the Canadian producers for some time. In fact, it was back in 1985 that the former Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Wise, promised a long-term, permanent program for agriculture. I am glad, and I am sure most people are glad to see that it is finally arriving.
There are some good aspects to this bill. The fact that there has been more consultation than usual is of value. The fact that there is a mechanism for a review every five years is a plus and that there will be an annual report on the programs to the House is also important. Those are important factors.
The one thing I think we must keep in mind, especially for those who are watching this debate or happen to read it in Hansard is that this bill does not outline the details of the particular agricultural programs. What it is instead is enabling legislation. It is legislation that is going to provide a framework which will allow the government to enter into programs. That is all that does. We have no details on exactly what form GRIP or NISA will take, the full details of premiums and so on. They do not exist in this legislation. It is simply a framework.
I think in looking at that framework perhaps the key clause section in the whole bill is the clause which sets out the statement of principles, clause 4(2). This clause outlines four basic principles which the government shall follow in establishing any programs. I would like to go through them, if I could, because I think they are important.
The first one states that the program should not unduly influence the decisions of producers of agricultural products with respect to production or marketing and should encourage adjustments with respect to production or marketing so as to improve the effectiveness of the responses of producers to market opportunities. In other words, the program will not unduly influence the market. That is fine. That is a good principle. It is important for farmers to be able to react to the market and not be forced through government programs or government regulations to skew either way. That is a good principle and it will be a good test for the program.
The second principle talks about the fact that the money shall be fairly distributed through the program; that the level of protection to be provided by and relative share of government contributions to be provided to the program in relation to particular agricultural products or classes should be reasonably consistent with all other agreements. In other words, the money should be evenly distributed. That is an important principle because what we need and what this government and past governments have failed to do time and again is to develop national programs that respect and represent this country as a whole. We often have piecemeal legislation. That also is an important principle.
The other two principles-that it shall meet international obligations and that the program shall be environmentally sound-are also very important principles.
The fact that the principles are in the legislation is important. The next question is: will they be followed? That is a question that cannot be answered today and will only be answered in time as the programs are introduced, developed, followed and reviewed.
I think another question that we would ask as social democrats is: Could we fit a strong social democratic program into this framework? The answer is, yes we could. We could follow these principles and put in a very sound social democratic program that is market responsive; that does allow producers to follow their inclinations and act with the market; that is environmentally sound; and is meeting Canada's international obligations. We could put in there a very good social democratic program.
March 8, 1991

The question is whether this government will. I guess the issue is: exactly what type of stability is being sought under this bill and for whom? One thing that concerns me, and I know it concerns a lot of my colleagues and other people across the country, is that under these principles there are some missing; primarily one that sets out and commits the government to maintain viable farm families. If we are going to maintain a viable world community in this country in areas where agriculture is the economic base, we have to maintain farm families.
This bill says nothing about that. To me, that is a major omission and a major problem. Although you could fit in a good social democratic program, as New Democrats we are very concerned with the future of farm families, we are very concerned with the future of rural communities, in putting in a program. You can also put in a program which that does not recognize or deal with the future of farm families. I say that because the record of this government has been the dismantling of farming families and in fact the dismantling of rural Canada. We have had a number of examples over the last few years. To outline some of them, we have certainly had changes in advance payments which have not kept in mind farming families and average size farms. That is not the principle behind the change to advance payments. The Canadian Wheat Board is being dismantled and certainly in the removal of oats there was absolutely no meaningful consultation in that change. Many producers want canola but the government has and continues to refuse to allow fanners and wheat board permit book holders to make a decision on their own wheat board.
I see red flags when we have a bill that on the one hand sets out some nice principles but on the other hand, when you compare it to the actions of this government, makes you wonder if in fact this government is really committed to the principle. Why does it not act with respect to the Canadian Wheat Board and allow producers to make their own decisions on the future of the Canadian Wheat Board?
The free trade act has also wreaked havoc with the Canadian Wheat Board and with the grain trade in this country. This spring it is expected that American grain will be allowed to come freely across the border. That is going to cause further problems and will drive down the price. The Canadian Wheat Board has already said it is going to make sure it is very competitive with American
Government Orders
grain which simply means the Canadian farmer is going to be receiving less for his or her grain.
Two-price wheat is gone. The whole future rationalization of the transportation system in this country has not been proceeded with keeping rural families in mind. When those types of actions are taken without keeping in mind these fundamental principles, who is to say what sort of program we are going to have under this particular bill?
In my opinion, it would much improve this legislation and much improve the confidence of Canadians in this government if there were some commitment to developing a program or programs that in fact have the objective of maintaining viable rural communities. That applies not only to this legislation but certainly to the rural Canada that depends on forestry, on fisheries, et cetera.
There are no details with respect to the actual programs but there are some concerns. We are hearing all kinds of rumours on GRIP and NISA and certainly the Saskatchewan government has been going all over the province, in fact claiming that it is its own program basically. There are some concerns about the GRIP; that it is not based on the cost of production, that there is no cap in the actual legislation. There is on the program. We have not seen those details. We do not know exactly what is going to be coming out when the program is announced. Certainly the words and comments we are hearing do not bode well for viable rural communities in the future.
The bill needs some fundamental change with respect to the principles that it sets out.
I think it is also important to state that while this bill deals with incomes, there is another aspect that goes hand in hand with incomes that this government has yet to talk about and that is farm financing. The rural communities and fanners in those areas have been trying to survive but they have been suffering because they have not got a steady, reliable income, and the financing aspect has really hurt them, along with input costs going up.
While it is very important to have a stable income program, and it is yet to be seen in fact if we will have one, it is just as important to have a strong finance program as well. We have seen time and time again, in Saskatchewan and right across the country, foreclosures are up, quit claims are up, people are having a very

March 8, 1991
Government Orders
difficult time. It is very disappointing, I have found that the minister introduced this bill knowing full well that they were coming for some time and has not put a moratorium on foreclosures, at least until this bill takes effect. In fact, this government would do a great service to rural Canada if it would stand up today and announce that all farm foreclosures will not be proceeded with until such time as this program had a chance to take effect, to allow farmers to keep their land.
There are many farmers who are simply hanging on, literally by their fingernails. It is important that they have a stable income.
Another aspect with farm financing is, of course, interest rates: We in the farming communities need stable interest rates. It is very difficult for many farmers. There are many senior farmers and there are numerous farmers who would like to retire from the land, who would like to leave the land, those who are getting close to retirement age, and many who are past retirement age. I run into farmers all the time who are well into their seventies who say they would like to get off the land but who really have no mechanism, no way of getting off the land. They cannot get rid of their land. Nobody can afford to buy it; the interest rates are too high.
We need a mechanism to set in a whole new generation of farmers so that in 20 years we are going to have a viable farming community. Therefore, we need a mechanism that is going to allow senior farmers to get off the land and allow younger farmers to get on the land.
That has not been addressed. There has been no indication of changes by this government with respect to that objective. It is not that we are short of alternatives; in fact even Jim Hewitt, the chairman of FCC, has made some very valuable contributions with respect to that matter.
Along with a strong incomes program, which I hope this bill will allow, we also need a strong national finance policy, it has to be a program that takes into account rural Canada-that is the key factor, that is the important factor that we have to take into account.
I would say this in concluding; we need a national policy, both with respect to income and farm finance, that recognizes the ultimate importance of a healthy industry to rural communities right across this country. Policies and programs must be available to assist farmers in realizing a return on their investment and labour comparable to that of other industries, so that an industry based on family control and family-operated farms can be maintained. That is the key element, that is the underlying issue. Certainly on this side of the House we will be calling for some changes to this legislation that are going to set out those principles and commit the government to moving toward developing programs that have that as a fundamental objective.
This bill allows for such an income program to be put in place. The question is, will the government achieve that desirable objective? That is the question that has to be dealt with and that is the question to which we await, with great anticipation, an answer.


Madam Speaker, I would like to say just a few words about this legislation presently before the Chamber.
Of course, we are debating the principle of the bill; in other words, the principle of income stabilization in the primary industry of agriculture.
The question has been put in many different ways concerning our primary producers because, of course, everybody realizes that they are perhaps the most important economic element in our society that keeps our balance of payments in the right order. They contribute more than other sectors of our economy because what they are producing is food, a most important commodity in today's world.
In thinking about the principle of this legislation, we have seen various attempts by governments over the years to stabilize incomes of farmers, fishermen and other primary producers. However, these attempts to stabilize incomes through measures such as crop insurance or, in the case of the fishing industry, the Fisheries Prices Support Board, all have one major drawback.
An assessment is made of the year and then the Government of Canada, through the mechanism of legislation, enables those primary producers to receive some compensation. The compensation is given after the fact. It does not profit somebody very much, for example, if they are about to lose their home and their property, and they are told by the legislators that what they passed
March 8, 1991

was something that says: "We are going to assess the damage at the end of the year and then we are going to discuss it between the governments. Perhaps sometime next year, you will get some money. You will get some money but we cannot tell you exactly how much money you are going to get."
I suppose that is better than nothing, but it does not do anything for the man or woman who is facing the seizure of property by our financial institutions. It appears to be the thing these days for financial institutions in this country to analyse the economy and to say all of a sudden: "Perhaps those primary producers are not really a good investment because either the industry is down generally or because of some external factors, external even to this country of Canada."
What happens is that our chartered banks deal with producers who need a line of credit almost on a daily basis. Because you are in a business like that where you are selling a commodity, you first of all have to produce the commodity and even after you have sold it, you sometimes have to wait for your money. It always was the tradition of our banking system to say: "We will allow you a certain overdraft at the bank because of your particular circumstance". You could go in and say: "I have definitely sold this amount of farm produce," or, "I have sold this amount of fish. Definitely, I have the contract. It is here."


I apologize, but I have to interrupt the hon. member at this time.
It being 11 a.m., pursuant to Standing Order 35, the House will now proceed to Statements by Members pursuant to Standing Order 31.


Madam Speaker, my constituents are saying, loud and clear: enough is enough! After seeing their parishes and CBC station shut down, and after the cuts in VIA Rail
services, now they are going to lose their traditional post offices, which will also mean more unemployment.
Madam Speaker, my constituents Petite-Matane and Redemption are very upset about the fact that their post office will be closed, and they are asking the government's help in obliging Canada Post to rethink its policy, in communities where the post office is the only symbol of their ties to the rest of Canada.
Madam Speaker, the people in these small villages are not asking for the improved services they were promised. They just want to keep the services they have.
Why, in a region where the poverty rate is the highest in the country, this attempt makes matters even worse? Do they want to close down the Gaspe?


Madam Speaker, today, International Women's Day, is set aside as a time to celebrate women and our achievements as we work to take our rightful place as equal partners in society.
Violence against women is perhaps the most persistent yet intolerable situation in the struggle. Documented evidence shows that violence against women has not abated.
Amnesty International reports indicate that, and I quote: "the list of gross violations around the world against women is endless-Many are targeted because they are strong, because they are political activists, community organizers, or persist in demanding that their rights or those of their relatives are respected. Others are targeted because they are seen as vulnerable young women who can easily be sexually abused or humiliated, pregnant women fearful for their unborn babies, or refugee women who are isolated and vulnerable in unfamiliar surroundings."
I implore all members of this House to take a moment and think about what this means and how it feels.
The Liberal Party is strongly committed to moving quickly to make women true equals. This government, on the other hand, is longer on rhetoric than it is on its record.

March 8, 1991


Madam Speaker, Monday brought the beginning of a special week of celebration throughout the world, International Women's Week. All across the country this week has been marked by numerous activities involving both women and men, including panel discussions, receptions, films, and rallies.
I invite hon. members to join me in congratulating the women of Canada for their significant contribution to Canadian society. No area of Canadian life, be it economic, social, cultural or political, has been left untouched by the talent and achievement of Canadian women.
In both the traditional and non-traditional sectors, women of every background are making their impact felt and bringing the sometimes elusive dream of true equality that much closer to reality.


Madam Speaker, the Prince Edward Island seed potato industry has been dealt a devastating blow. Potatoes are to P.E.I. what grain is to Saskatchewan, the engine of the provincial economy.
Potatoes have been responsible for 50 per cent of total farm gate receipts the last two years, $125 million per year.
The entrepreneurial spirit of our producers, dealers and exporters has put P.E.I. in the forefront of world potato production. P.E.I. is responsible for making Canada second only to Holland in seed potato exports.
The industry has reached this position because of 75 years of effort by both producers and government which has resulted in the establishment of a world-wide reputation for quality in seed, table and processing potatoes.
That reputation is now in jeopardy because of the PVY-N virus in our seed stock and an embargo by the United States, Canada and Mexico. This is the first time an entire province has been quarantined.
What P.E.I. needs today is a strict eradication plan in order to restore quickly our reputation in the marketplace and generous compensation to prevent wholesale bankruptcies.
P.E.I. potato farmers appreciate the attention-


I am sorry, but the hon. member's time is expired.


Madam Speaker, today we celebrate International Women's Day and, with this in mind, I would like to remind this House that the Canada Council is the chief means for the federal government to impact and support arts in Canada. Yet the board of the Canada Council has never been graced with a member of a visible minority.
At this time, when the need for a visible minority representative is greatest, a woman with talent and dedication has stepped forward.
Carol Geddes, who currently is a member on the Native Committee of Canada Council and was a member of the Northern Jury of the Council is a candidate for the board.
With the growing racial tensions in this land, it would seem that the time is at hand for such a woman who represents native peoples to participate in the important decisions that the Canada Council makes.
I would like to take this opportunity to support Ms. Geddes' bid fully, in light of her substantial achievements, and I would like to urge that this House do the same.


Madam Speaker, recently, the Government of Canada and the Government of Quebec announced that under the Canada-Quebec subsidiary agreement on the regional economic development of Quebec, three new programs will be implemented to help reinforce the economic
March 8, 1991

infrastructure in Quebec's resource regions, including the ridings of Pontiac-Gatineau-Labelle and Abitibi- Temiscamingue.
Both levels of government have agreed to budget $80 million, to be allocated over three different programs.
Madam Speaker, both governments realize that unfortunately, some regions in Quebec, including my own riding, have a very high unemployment rate and are experiencing serious economic problems. These initiatives will stimulate the economy in these regions by helping them carry out major projects, which will give these communities renewed economic vigour.


Madam Speaker, farmers from all parts of Canada are in desperate need of assistance this spring in order to get their crops in the ground.
Total net farm income has dropped by over 50 per cent. The federal government has promised a so-called third line defence payment but yet, to this day, it has not said when the payment will be made, how much it will be worth, or even who is eligible.
I wish to stress to the government that western grain producers are in desperate need of this cash, but so are producers in Ontario, Quebec and the maritimes; not only grain and oilseeds producers but horticultural producers as well.
The current income crisis is shared by all farmers, and I ask the government to take this into account when the payment is made.


Madam Speaker, today I think it would be very appropriate to read a poem by Janet Foster called "A day of rest".
Some women say God is a woman -
Everybody knows that's not true -
He worked six days and rested on the seventh;
If God had been a woman, he wouldn't have stopped;
After 85 hours of board meetings, working outside the home, making beds, doing the Iaundiy, shopping, taking the kids to the doctor and the dentist, ordering groceries, nursing sick kids, spending Saturdays ironing and dusting and Sundays preparing meals, women don't know what the word weekend means.
If God had been a woman, as so many people seem to think, he wouldn't have needed Sunday to rest.
Since the beginning of time, women have known that only children, men and God need a rest.
Madam Speaker, I have this to say: Men, stop being selfish and help women achieved equality!


Madam Speaker, the denial of full funding under the Athletes Assistance Program to Canada's female athletes because they become pregnant is a violation of their human rights. It is gender discrimination. The Minister of State for Fitness and Amateur Sport promised to remove this barrier to equality last October. He has repeatedly stated in the media that this policy will be changed.
On the occasion of International Women's Day, I ask the minister to take this opportunity to announce today that the Athletes Assistance Program will be immediately amended so that female carded athletes who become pregnant will be eligible to obtain full funding.
I ask the minister to correct this injustice to Canada's female athletes.


Madam Speaker, today, on International Women's Day, I rise to recognize the contribution of rural women across Canada.
Rural women and their families are under a tremendous amount of stress. They are overworked, underpaid, and their contribution often goes unrecognized.
The lack of support services and programs in rural areas is a major problem for rural women.

March 8, 1991
Rural families lack accessible, affordable and flexible child care and stress counselling services. Battered women have no where to turn for help.
The farm financial situation has created a greater need for social support services. This has placed an even greater stress on the inadequate level of services currently provided. Yet the Conservative government and the Liberals before them have ignored the urgent needs of rural women.
In fact the recent federal budget cut financial support for transition houses, abuse counselling, child care, education and medicare. These cuts come at a time when rural women need these services the most.
I call on this government to provide adequate and stable funding to ensure rural women and their families have the support they need. I call on this government to treat rural women with the respect they deserve.


Madam Speaker, today thousands of women the world over are celebrating International Women's Day.
I wish to emphasize the commitment of our government to promoting women's equality in our society. The Department of the Secretary of State, which is responsible for women's issues, provides annual funding for more than 800 volunteer organizations whose activities are aimed at improving living conditions for women. A host of projects to counter family violence have been initiated. Each project helps bring women another step closer to economic, social and legal equality.
To ensure that Canadian women have the full equal status to which they are entitled, we must continue to work in partnership with provincial, territorial and municipal governments, women's groups, community organizations, the private sector and the labour unions.
I would like to stress the exceptional work done by Canadian women who, by their efforts, are helping to promote the status of women.
Today, March 8, I would ask you all to join me in congratulating the women of Canada and their sisters throughout the world.


Madam Speaker, I was disappointed to see the government cave in to CSIS by not adopting any of the parliamentary review committee's major recommendations.
All Canadians know is that CSIS will spend $213 million. They do not know if it is on people, cars, airplanes or tape recorders. Parliamentary oversight would have provided the necessary controls over expenditures, as well as the secret operations of CSIS.
Ron Atkey, a Conservative and former chairman of the Security Intelligence Review Committee said:
It also seems clear that the government wanted to avoid at any cost a commitment to introduce legislative changes.
How convenient for CSIS which never really wanted to limit itself to investigating terrorism and espionage. And wasn't this just super for the communications security establishment, that huge vacuum cleaner in the sky which has the frightening capacity to invade the privacy of Canadians in a variety of ways, but which has no legal mandate and which is not accountable to anyone -
This government must explain to Canadians "why".


Does International Women's Day mean anything more this year than it did 12 months ago, Madam Speaker? Absolutely.
Over those 12 months vocal protest halted this government's attempt to recriminalize abortion services and to sap the support of women's centres across Canada. Women celebrate those victories today.
Over the same 12 months, however, our Prime Minister refused to remember the Montreal massacre officially or to answer calls for a royal commission on violence against women.
The justice minister sidelined her own gun control bill. The status of women minister said that her government will not strengthen the toothless Employment Equity
March 8, 1991

Act. The health minister, with his superficial family violence initiative, returned a mere drop to the bucket of social programs that his government has emptied.
Over the same 12 months some Liberals felt no shame about-


I am sorry, but the hon. member's time has expired.


Madam Speaker, the government's bill to privatize airports weakens the government's committed policy on bilingualism.
In 1988, Parliament passed a new Official Languages Act which applied bilingualism to airport