Mr. Speaker, I am rising today to implore the federal government to implement at least one of the recommendations of Canada's Auditor General. The government should immediately start giving taxpayers a score card on how we are doing in working to eliminate the deficit. Telling Canadians what our financial position is just once a year in a budget is not good enough. People paying high income taxes, business taxes, sales taxes, user fees, payroll taxes and surtaxes deserve a monthly or at least quarterly accounting. The government has to give us some hope that there is light at the end of the tunnel, that the deficit will be reduced to zero in so many months.
The Auditor General is right on this one and the Minister of Finance would do well to listen and then to take action.


Mr. Speaker, unemployment keeps rising in Quebec. In the riding of Chambly, Aliments Terra has closed its doors, resulting in 200 lay-offs. On January 3, Angus will close down in east Montreal, which means another 3,000 jobs lost. Joint action by governments is urgently needed to breathe new life into the economy of Montreal.
Last week's announcement, a pitiful $32 million per year for five years, is nowhere near being the kind of serious joint program we need to help the economy in Quebec.
The government must realize it has a duty to get involved in the recovery of Quebec's economy. I would ask all members of this House to do their homework before they get involved in this kind of discussion so they can make a constructive contribution to the debate. This is not patronage. It is a matter of elementary justice and common sense.


Mr. Speaker, I want to speak today about Canada's most important industry, northwestern Ontario's most important industry and Thunder Bay's most important industry.
Forestry is this country's single largest industry. It generates over $40 billion a year in sales. It accounts for about $20 billion yearly in export sales, all in U.S. funds. More than 800,000 Canadians are employed directly by this industry and 8,000 large and small businesses are directly involved in the forestry industry.
This industry is in serious difficulty today and government intervention is needed badly. What we need is a de-inking and recycling of facilities throughout this country. The future of Canada's industry and northwestern Ontario depends on being able to supply recycled products to all of our customers.
This government must act now before Canada's major industry is all but shut down.


Recently the Sisters of the Assumption celebrated 100 years of dedicated service to the people of the Four Nations of Hobbema in my constituency and also in western Canada.

I quote in part from a poem of thanks by Linda Cutknife:
- these Sisters have watched the community of Hobbema grow From rags to riches
They have shared our happiness and our pain.
They were with us when we buried our people in tragic times,
They offered us prayer and goodness
when we thought the world had gone insane. . .
We will never forget these Sisters
Who were sometimes our mothers, our friends, our teachers or whatever we wanted them to be.
They taught us how to pray to God,
How to talk to Jesus as a friend,
And they told us the story of how Jesus died so that we could be free-
In the spirit of national unity, I ask this House to join me and all my constituents in thanking the Sisters of the Assumption for all they have done to build a great nation.


Mr. Speaker, I am appalled to hear reports that the federal Department of Transport is considering the withdrawal of air traffic controllers from Charlottetown and 12 other airports across the county.
The reports suggest that the controllers may be withdrawn as early as February of next year.
Some 30,000 flights a year use the Charlottetown airport, and those people are entitled to the same level of service as enjoyed in the rest of the country.
The continual erosion of services in the outlying areas of this country shows us that this government is trying to fight its deficit problems on the backs of the poorest people and in the poorest regions of the country.
I call on the Minister of Transport to reject this recommendation and to assure Canadians in smaller centres that the level of service will remain the same for them as for other Canadians.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a matter of importance to a number of constituents in the Cambridge area.
The Canadian horse is a national breed and is now endangered. There are approximately 1,100 in existence and of these 700 are 100 per cent pure. The Canadian horse is part of our heritage and was proclaimed the national breed by Parliament on March 17, 1909.
To promote the Canadian breed, to commemorate its place in our history and to remind Canadians of our natural heritage, the constituents of Cambridge would like to see a stamp series produced to honour the breed of horse known as the Canadian.
I ask that serious consideration be given to having the Canadian horse breed honoured by a stamp.


Mr. Speaker, "The Situation in Croatia", a report prepared by 11 of the 12 monitoring delegations, has overwhelmingly substantiated the charges that have been levelled against the Yugoslav army: targeting the sick, killing children, bulldozing villages.
Innocent civilians are clearly being confronted by an army run amok. How much longer is the international community going to stand aside? Where is the new world order that was supposed to be dawning but a short time ago?
The question is: Are we doomed forever to replay history? The answer must be no. The United Nations must take action. There must be a military interposition between the Yugoslav army and those who are being brutalized.
There must be a massive transfer of humanitarian assistance. The international community must rise to the challenge before it and Canada, if we are to be true to ourselves, must take the lead.
December 4, 1991	COMMONS


Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Canadian Parliamentary Friendship Group for Syrian Jewry was formed. Our group has Conservative, Liberal and New Democrat representatives who are deeply concerned about the plight of Jews in Syria.
Today I want to bring this grave situation to the attention of my colleagues in the House and all Canadians.
There are 4,500 Jews in Syria who are being denied the right to leave oppressive Syrian rule.

Jews living in Syria have been deprived of their basic rights. They cannot emigrate. They cannot travel freely and they cannot vote. They are jailed and tortured. Their correspondence and telephone conversations are censored, and their activities are watched very closely.

We must work together to ensure for all Syrian Jews that fundamental human rights are guaranteed, including their safe departure from Syrian oppression to freedom.


Mr. Speaker, fish plants in Glace Bay and Louisbourg are vital to our local economy.
The federal government should explain why it decided to increase cod quotas around Cape Breton Island for the French metropolitan fleet from St. Malo, France, in the past year and to cut cod quotas for Canadians.
The federal government should also withdraw a commitment given to France that it can catch 60 per cent of its entire year's cod quota around Cape Breton Island in the first three months of 1992.
Not only have the cod quotas been increased for France around Cape Breton Island, but foreign nations like Bulgaria and Poland have been given so-called

experimental licences to catch mackerel, with 30 per cent by-catch of capelin in the Sydney Bight in the past year.
The federal government has systematically destroyed the cod fishery around Cape Breton Island and in the gulf by issuing licences to Cuba to catch squid along the Nova Scotia coast and the U.S.S.R. to catch capelin. Both species are the food supply of the gulf cod stock.
Not one tonne of fish should be taken from Canadian quotas while Canada gives one ounce of quota to foreign nations around our coast.


Mr. Bill Attewell (Markham-Whitchurch-StoufF-
ville): Mr. Speaker, in a special report signed by 11 out of 12 European community members monitoring delegations, the Yugoslavian army is accused of deliberately targeting civilians, hospitals and schools in Croatia.
The report states these acts are brutal and have proven effective in terrorizing the people of Croatia. The report of last week entitled "The Situation in Croatia" condemns the Serb dominated Yugoslav force as a "cowardly army fighting no recognizable principle, but largely, instinctively for its own status and survival".
The report recommends that the 12-nation European community intervene militarily and punish the Yugoslav federal army. I believe we should go one step further. We must announce to these self-serving Communist officers of the Yugoslav army that a war tribunal will be set up to try the officers of either army who have committed war crimes.
The barbaric attacks and bloodshed against Croatians must end.
Mr. Speaker, last night I joined the Ukrainian Canadian community on the steps of Parliament in celebrating the independence of Ukraine. Today on those same steps over 2,000 Croatian Canadians were asking their government why Canada and the world continue to refuse to recognize the independence of Croatia after 94 per cent of the people of Croatia and Slovenia voted for freedom and nationhood earlier this year.

December 4, 1991
A European community report just released accuses the Yugoslav army of targeting civilians, hospitals, and schools in Croatia in an effort to terrorize the population.
While Croatia must of course fully respect the rights of the Serbian minority, it is those of the Croatian majority who are being brutally denied. Canada must urge the United Nations to immediately intervene to stop the bloodshed. Canada must provide desperately needed humanitarian aid directly to the people of Croatia, and Canada must end its silence and ensure that the will of the people of Croatia and Slovenia for freedom, democracy and independence is realized at last.


Mr. Speaker, on December 1 the world watched a remarkable event unfold in Ukraine: the decision by a freedom loving people through a democratic process to join the world community as an independent nation.
Our Prime Minister realized the importance of this moment immediately and recognized the birth of the new republic of Ukraine.
The London Ukrainian community joins the chorus of millions around the world congratulating the Prime Minister and Canada. Congratulations, Prime Minister, for again demonstrating the kind of leadership Canada is renowned for throughout the world.
Will the Prime Minister exercise his bold leadership once again and now recognize the republic of Croatia?


Mr. Speaker, last week the federal government announced it would give Quebec $160 million over a period of five years. This means $32 million per year, or $5 per person per year in Quebec. It is not enough, considering the damage done to Quebec's economy by federal policies.
Furthermore, the critical comments of the New Democrats and Liberals were biased and inappropriate. Did Quebecers criticize the fact that the government sent $800 million to Western Canada? No, Mr. Speaker. Quebec merely wants its fair share of the taxes it pays to Ottawa. It does not want handouts and it only wishes it could keep all its tax money and spend it according to its own priorities.


Mr. Speaker, I am happy to inform the House today of developments this week at a meeting of the Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development, the OECD, in Paris.
The Minister of State for the Environment, led the Canadian delegation, was vice-chair of the meeting. The theme of this important meeting of environment and development ministers of the 24 member countries of the OECD was a partnership for sustainable development.
On Monday the Minister urged her colleagues from the OECD countries to work to develop new global partnerships to achieve sustainable development.
Canada is well positioned to lead in partnerships with private sector organizations, business, industry, labour, educators and institutions.
The central position and prominence of the OECD as an institution and of its member countries will cast it in a number of key roles leading up to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development and beyond. Canada will continue to be active and committed to these initiatives.


I wonder if I could have the attention of the House for a moment.
As some hon. members know, for many weeks now on Wednesdays I have been coming in early so that prayers could be taken in time to begin Statements by Members exactly on the hour.
I cannot go ahead unless we have a quorum. I have sent messages. I am asking all hon. members to ensure that there is a quorum a few minutes in advance so that no hon. member is deprived of his or her wish to make a statement during the 15 minutes of statements and I really do need the co-operation of all hon. members.
December 4, 1991


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. Yesterday the Prime Minister met the premier of British Columbia who became the fifth provincial premier to call for a first ministers' conference on the economy. We also heard that Premier Bourassa of Quebec said he would be willing to attend such a conference, if it were likely to produce positive results.
As we see now that provincial premiers representing the three main political parties in Canada are ready right now to meet the Prime Minister to discuss economic problems, why does the government refuse to hold such a conference which might find a way to get out of this unending recession?


Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister will not refuse a meeting with the premiers. He already met with some premiers last week and other meetings are scheduled for the coming days. A meeting with the premiers to consider the economy is possible.

The Prime Minister said yesterday that he would be reflecting on the advice of the finance minister who will be meeting with the provincial finance ministers on December 11 and 12. He will be reflecting on the views that have been expressed to him by the premiers with whom he has been meeting.
The Minister of Finance said in the scrum yesterday: "If he thinks a meeting would be beneficial, I would be happy to call it".


Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask a question of the minister again. Yesterday the Prime Minister made a speech in Vancouver and he said, among other things, that "Canadians are going to have to fish or cut bait" about the future of Canada.
Oral Questions
I agree entirely with the Prime Minister. But if the Prime Minister really believes, as I do, that all Canadians must have the chance to say yes to Quebec and to say yes to Canada, why has he pulled the plug on the proposal that I made in good faith to have a national referendum where all the people of Canada can vote on the future of this country?


Mr. Speaker, according to Canadian Press, the Prime Minister said in Vancouver yesterday that the Speech from the Throne promised consultation with Canadians. The Speech from the Throne does not say what form that consultation will take. We are still looking at the various options. We have not ruled any out. But we are honouring that promise made in the Speech from the Throne.

Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition missed the response yesterday by my colleague, the Minister responsible for Constitutional Affairs, to the member for Annapolis Valley-Hants, but he made it abundantly clear, as has the Prime Minister, that all options remain open.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to put a question to the minister who is replacing the Minister responsible for Constitutional Affairs. Would the government not be prepared right now to clarify the situation and to make people understand that what we want is a double majority referendum, where every region of Canada- the Atlantic, Quebec, Ontario and the west-could say yes to Quebec and yes to Canada at the same time? Why does the government not propose such a solution immediately since no one knows exactly what the government wants to do, which is creating confusion, and since it is high time to find a positive solution to save this country?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. Leader of the Opposition points out, he and his party have locked themselves into the position that there must be a referendum on a particular formula. What the Prime Minister and the Minister responsible for Constitutional Affairs have indicated is that we favour the broadest possible constructive consultation with Canadians. I put the emphasis upon constructive, in that any action that we take must be one that helps to unite Canadians and not to divide them or to polarize them.

December 4, 1991
Oral Questions
It is incumbent on all of us on all sides of this House to do what we can to bring Canadians into the process, to solicit their participation and to do what we can to unite Canadians, not to put barriers between them.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Acting Prime Minister.
The minister will know that Canada Post employees in London, Ontario are routinely asked to use someone else's name and social insurance number to do contract work for the post office after working hours.
Given that this action by Canada Post contravenes the Canada Labour Code, the collective agreement, the Income Tax Act and probably many other statutes of Canada, when did the minister find out about this practice and what has he done to stop it?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member should know that Revenue Canada, through its matching programs, will identify any such potential problems or inequities that exist. We found out about those in recent days. We are currently investigating the matter to the best of our ability.
Upon the conclusion of the investigation, appropriate action will be taken. Every step to protect the individual is being taken at this present time.


Mr. Speaker, the culprit here is not the employees in question. They were counselled by Canada Post and Canada Post has admitted to this publicly.
I have in hand here a cheque which was given to Mr. Mike Bellemy and the cheque is made to his mother, Audrey Bellemy, a senior citizen.

I want to ask the minister opposite what action the government will take not to punish employees but to reassure Canadians that Canada Post obeys the law?


Mr. Speaker, first of all, if the hon. member or any other member has any additional evidence to give to us, we would be happy to receive it and include it in the ongoing investigation.
I repeat to the hon. member and to Canadians who are affected by this situation that a matching program after the fact does take place and appropriate action will be taken. In any event, if the hon. member has any additional information I would be very happy to look at it.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Acting Prime Minister.
The Leader of the Opposition continues to talk about a referendum on the Constitution and the Prime Minister speaks of public consultation. But the country's future is not just the Constitution. You need only listen to people. The real problems are finding work and the economy.
This government's economic record is a complete failure. When will this government hold the only national referendum that really counts; when will the government call an election?


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, in due course.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
The previous minister spoke about the broadest possible consultation. There is one form of broad consultation and every indication says that this government has failed in every part of this country and especially on the economy. When the government stood up in the past and said it was on the right track, we have to ask who it is speaking for: the banks that had a billion dollar profit or the $27 billion in corporate taxes that were not paid?
December 4, 1991

Who is the minister listening to because he is certainly not speaking for those Canadians who want full participation through an election? When will the government call an election for that full participation?


Mr. Speaker, this type of political game does not amuse Canadians. What Canadians are looking for is consultation about the economy and that is precisely what we are engaged in with the prosperity initiative that is having meetings in communities.
I had a meeting in my hon. friend's community and I would say to her that it was a very successful meeting. People came out to that meeting, gave their views on how we should deal with international markets, how we should deal with training, how we should deal with technology and how we get investment to produce jobs in communities such as hers. It is that type of dialogue among Canadians that is going to generate the change of attitude that is necessary within the country.


I think we should move on.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question.
What Canadians want is action. Canadians are not getting action on the economy and they are not finding jobs. Today Statistics Canada reported that the number of jobs available has not changed from last month and in the last year the number of jobs available across this country has gone down from 12 per cent to 26 per cent. It means fewer jobs are available for Canadians.
The kind of action Canadians want is action on the economy and they want this government to do something. Every indication is that this government will not take-


I wonder if the hon. member would put her question, please.
Oral Questions


The government will take the action and so I say to the minister responsible: Will the government call an election and stand up and ask the people for their real opinion?


Mr. Speaker, I think the fact that interest rates have come down over 6 percentage points since May of last year indicates action on the part of the government.
My hon. friend talks about the need to create jobs. There have been 101,000 jobs created since February of this year. So jobs are being created.
My hon. friend talks about what is happening in the economy. Housing starts have been above 150,000 now for six or seven months. They reached 200,000 one month during the summer. So things are changing.


I think we are going to have to move on.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to raise two very compelling international matters with the Secretary of State for External Affairs.
First, the European community monitoring group has reported that violence against Croatians persists and that measures taken to stop the random terrorism of the Yugoslav army have failed.
I want to ask the Secretary of State for External Affairs, on behalf of Canada: Will she call for an immediate emergency meeting of the security council to ensure the UN force will be sent right away to protect the lives of Croatian civilians?
Second, will she personally meet with foreign ministers of the European community to discuss the intention and the timing of their recognition of Croatia and Slovenia?


Mr. Speaker, first of all it is very important that we all recognize the horror of what is going on in Croatia and in other parts of Yugoslavia.
I have been in touch with our ambassador at the United Nations. I was in touch with him this morning. There is a security council meeting to receive a report from Cyrus Vance on his return from Yugoslavia. He is expected to be in New York tomorrow. He is spending another day in the region in a further attempt to ensure that the cease-fire holds. He and his number two man are in Croatia, in Zagreb.

Oral Questions
I have also spoken to our own ambassador in Yugoslavia and instructed him to seek permission from the Croatian authorities to visit Croatia himself and report directly back to me. I should say that no foreign ambassador located in Belgrade has visited Croatia, partly at the request of the Croatian authorities. Therefore, I have made this a personal message from myself to the Croatian authorities via the ambassador and I want a report back from him directly.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps the minister should consider sending a special delegation to Croatia to examine the situation.
I also want to ask this question. On both sides of this House and throughout the country we all welcome the release of western hostages with one exception. A Canadian, Mrs. Henriette Haddad, is still being held hostage after six years of detention without much hope of being released.
I want to ask the minister why she personally has kept silent on this issue. Why has the Canadian government not had Mrs. Haddad put on the list of UN hostages that are being negotiated? Will she take action immediately, while there is still time, to have Mrs. Haddad become part of a deal involving western hostages who are to be freed this week?


Mr. Speaker, we have discussed Mrs. Haddad with the United Nations. My chief of staff has met with Mrs. Haddad's family. I should say that Mrs. Haddad's son visited a member of Parliament in 1985 about his mother's disappearance and then again in 1987. He was not in touch with us again until this year, even though we had searched for Mrs. Haddad through all our known connections, including terrorist organizations.
No organization in Syria or in Lebanon or in any other part of the region has come forward and said that it is holding Mrs. Haddad despite our efforts to locate her and to discuss-


Put her on the list.


I sometimes wonder if the hon. member really does care about this.
We have followed this up with the United Nations. We have followed this up with all of our contacts through Syria and Lebanon and indeed through the groups that are known to hold hostages. There is absolutely no trace of Mrs. Haddad that we can find and we are continuing to pursue it.
 * *


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Associate Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development in the absence of the minister.
The Auditor General's report states that this government has never increased funding for aboriginal housing despite an increase in the aboriginal population three times the national average.
Will the ministers quit avoiding and neglecting their responsibilities and will they act by providing now the funding so desperately needed for aboriginal housing?


Mr. Speaker, I was asked a similar question yesterday by a member of the NDP, and it will of course be a pleasure to give the hon. member the requisite information. We realize that aboriginal communities have tremendous needs in terms of housing. Our investment in this area has already been very substantial, and yesterday I quoted some rather impressive figures which reflect this government's commitment to helping improve aboriginal housing. The government has spent between $120 and $140 million annually, and so far 3,000 new houses have been built. Funds have also been made available for the renovation of another 3,000 to 4,000 houses.
December 4, 1991

Oral Questions
That being said, we realize that we are scarcely meeting the demand. As the hon. member probably knows, we are involved in discussions. A report was produced by the department, and aboriginal communities are now examining the report. We are developing a new policy with these communities so as to respond more effectively to their very urgent needs.


Mr. Speaker, before I continue with my supplementary I should say that whatever way we cut it, there is a 10,000 housing shortfall for the aboriginal people and that is from Auditor General, not me.
My supplementary question is for the associate minister of Indian and northern affairs. Education, as she well knows, is fundamental to the future of aboriginal Canadians. The federal government is obligated to meet the educational needs of all aboriginal students.
How can the minister justify capping the funding on post-secondary education to aboriginal people and how can the government refuse 5,000 students by creating a waiting list of those 5,000 students who have made it through high school, despite great adversity and through a very high drop-out list? How can the government justify this capping of funds?


Mr. Speaker, I believe this government has recognized how important education is to aboriginal communities. Although the hon. member may not be aware of the fact, I am pleased to say that we have tripled the amounts provided since 1984-85, and we have almost tripled the number of students who now reach post-secondary level. We have increased our funding, and this year the budget for this category is $190 million and will increase to $242 million in 1995-96. We are also reviewing the problem that although all class I and class II spaces have been filled we realize that some students may have been left out. We will try to deal with this problem as soon as possible.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Transport.
Media reports in Winnipeg suggest that the government's own CN has a plan to ship grain and potash, bypassing Thunder Bay and the seaway, through Fort Frances and Windsor through U.S. rail links. This plan, if adopted and allowed to go ahead, will mean the beginning of the end of the port at Thunder Bay, the seaway and a number of ports in the province of Quebec.
I want to ask the Minister of State for Transport: Will she instruct CN to cease and desist?


Mr. Speaker, I share my hon. friend's concern about this, but I want to reassure him that there is no plan to ship grain through the U.S.
As he says, it was speculation. It is not true that there is no shipping of grain through those ports. It will continue to flow through Thunder Bay.


I have a supplementary question for the same minister, Mr. Speaker. I know that CN denies the existence of this plan, but it has denied the existence of other plans that have come true in the past.
As the holder of the shares in this Crown corporation the Government of Canada has the right to instruct CN not to develop any plans to bypass any Canadian ports in the movement of grain, potash or any other commodities. Is the minister prepared to take the responsibility on behalf of the people of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, I take my responsibility to the people of Canada very sincerely. CN has already advised the port officials at Thunder Bay that it has no plans to do this so there is no need for me to order it.

Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State, but in his absence I would like to direct it to the responsible minister. The Auditor General of Canada was very critical of the process of contracting out translation in his department. It seems that 42 per cent of current translation requests are contracted out, and that by 1994 this percentage could be as high as 50 per cent.
The quality of translation is also criticized by the Auditor General, who says that the ability of the Department of the Secretary of State to manage its human resources is poor. My question is very straightforward. Does the government intend to take action as soon as possible to deal with the problems raised by the Auditor General? Will it set clear and precise management objectives for the practice of contracting out translation? Or, is it about to dismantle the Translation Bureau and sacrifice it on the altar of privatization? That is my question.


No, Mr. Speaker. We intend to keep this essential service, and it is an excellent one. Yes, we have started to take action, and I can say quite frankly that the department has accepted the recommendations and is quite pleased with them. It has already set up a task force that is to start on a complete and comprehensive review of the operations of the Translation Bureau. I am told that by next spring there will be a new plan on the basis of which a comprehensive strategy will be implemented for this service.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker.
The Auditor General has said that the contracting of translation services are badly managed. That is a serious accusation. He says that the government has lost a lot of talented employees, that the work climate is not good, that the morale is very low, and that there is a drop in the over-all quality of translations.
Canada with two official languages must have quality translation. As the percentage of translation done by the private sector is expected to rise to 50 per cent by 1994, what measures will the Secretary of State undertake to solve these problems of subcontracting translation services to people outside the Public Service of Canada?


Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the minister who is away on government business today, I indicated that the department agrees with the recommendations of the Auditor General. I also indicated that it has already undertaken a number of very positive measures that will definitely propose new ways of delivering the service.
As far as the morale, I think it is a group that has performed brilliantly. It has given excellent service. It does translation service in perhaps 60 languages, from what I remember in my stay with that ministry.
I think this new little team that has been doing its analysis and work has been very well seen by those members. We certainly will do everything we can to protect the service that has been in place for 57 years.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport.
Six and a half years ago the Minister of Transport stated in this House: "This government has no intention of downgrading the role of Winnipeg as a transportation centre and as an important part of the CNR".
Since that commitment was made-I use the word "commitment" loosely in this case-Manitobans have lost approximately 2,000 jobs, most of which were lost at the Transcona shops in Symington Yards.
With further reports that there could be as many as 1,300 other jobs cut throughout Canada, many which will be in Manitoba, when will CN management and this government stop bludgeoning the Manitoba rail worker?


Mr. Speaker, CN does have a mandate to act fiscally responsible and build a railroad that will continue to serve the people across this country. It has to make certain decisions in putting its fiscal plan together.
December 4, 1991

The article in the Winnipeg newspaper at this time is speculative and I do not think we should comment on it any further at this time.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the same minister.
Four years ago the government made another commitment, this time to maintain Winnipeg as a rail transportation hub. No wonder people are nervous: all these commitments.
Since then we have seen approximately 250 rail jobs that have been lost, quite apart from the 2,000 CN jobs that I just mentioned. Some 1,000 of those jobs were lost during the last three years.
What is the whole agenda here? Why the secrecy? Why a little bit at a time? When will we know the total plan? When will the rail workers know where they stand?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member should be a bit careful when he talks about Winnipeg as a rail hub, because it is.
Manitoba has the largest number of CN employees outside Quebec of any other region of the country, which is where CN is headquartered. Manitoba originates 8 per cent of the rail traffic and has 44 per cent of the employees.
In criticizing CN, they had better be careful that they do not leave the impression that CN is not welcome in Manitoba, because it is a very important part of Manitoba. It has the largest switching yard, the Transco-na shops, and the train locomotives at Gimli. It is and will continue to be a very important employment generator for Manitoba.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct my question to the minister responsible for native affairs or whoever is representing him today.
Oral Questions
In 1991 various departments spent an estimated $4 billion on basic services to the native community. According to the recent Auditor General's report, the Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development does not have assurances that these moneys are used for the purpose intended or managed with maximum efficiency. The same is true in the Department of Agriculture.
What course of action is this government pursuing in order to ensure that aboriginal people, farmers of Canada, are receiving the highest quality and most cost efficient services available?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member refers to the Auditor General's report which put forward some questions about the expenditures, over $11 billion expended by the government on behalf of taxpayers to assist farmers.
I say to her that I know the policy of the party she represents: that farmers will have to do with less, that farmers will have to be part of the 15 per cent of the over-all reduction in government expenditures that her leader is putting forward, and that her leader has put forward a statement that the Government of Canada should trade off the interest of western grain exporters against the interests of those who operate supply managed industries in central Canada, Ontario and Quebec.
I say to her that this government represents all of agriculture. If the member really wants to know whether the expenditures that have been made have been efficient, she should ask the producers who received them.


Mr. Speaker, we are not talking about dollars and cents here. We are talking about the efficiency of programs that are in place and what long-term goals in terms of accountability this government has.


I turn to another subject now and ask the transport minister a question.
It has come to my attention that the Minister of Transport will be announcing a $2.7 million to $3.5 million grant to the trucking industry before this Friday.

Oral Questions
I have been informed that many decisions involving this grant have been made without consultation from important members of the trucking community.
We are talking about handing out grants to the trucking industry when so many, the Alberta Construction Trucking Association for example, state that these moneys would be better served to pay down the debt.


am sorry, Mr. Speaker. I really did not hear a question at the end of that statement, but I can tell the hon. member that we have been working with all representatives of the trucking industry for over a year now to come to plans that will indeed strengthen the industry and make it more competitive in the future, and we are continuing to work on those plans.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the President of the Treasury Board.
Yesterday the Auditor General criticized the government for the way that it used public sector pension funds to finance the deficit. He estimated in fact that the loss to public sector pension funds was a billion dollars per year.
I want to ask the minister if he will guarantee in the legislation he is talking about bringing forward that public servants will not be asked to make higher contributions or accept lower benefits as a result of the billions that the government has taken from their pension assets over the last 30 years.


Mr. Speaker, I do not know if the hon. member has been sleeping all these years but the integration of this fund with Treasury has been there since 1954. He wakes up because the Auditor General said that if we had invested the money on the market we probably would have got a little more money. But we would have to borrow the equivalent amount outside thereby increasing the interest and costing Canadian taxpayers more money.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the minister answering for the Royal Canadian Mint where public service workers have been on strike for almost seven weeks now.
In the past the Minister of Labour has been asked in this House to appoint a mediator and he said that he could not do that without a request. The fact is that under the law he can appoint a mediator, and I am asking the government now to make the commitment that the Minister of Labour will appoint a mediator so that the people can get back to the bargaining table in this dispute and the strike in Winnipeg can come to an end.


Mr. Speaker, it was unfortunate that last year the workers of the PSAC union turned down a 5.5 per cent offer. This year with times changed they have not accepted any of the offers and they have been going on a very slow strike, a few going out at a time.
At the present time there is no reason for the Minister of Labour to appoint a mediator unless at least one of the sides indicates it has an interest in that.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Industry, Science and Technology.
Recently the Quebec provincial government announced an action plan to revitalize its current economic situation by setting targets toward economic renewal. There were no public consultations.
This minister and the Minister of Employment and Immigration announced a prosperity initiative with consultants fanning out across the country, visiting towns and asking local groups to sponsor these community discussions.
Recently Michael Porter released a report, Canada at the Crossroads, and told Canadians what to do.
Why is this minister continuing with this exercise? What does he expect to hear that he has not heard before? Why does this minister not just introduce his new policy platform on competitiveness?
December 4, 1991


Mr. Speaker, I think one thing that Canadians have told us very clearly is that it is important for us to consult on these issues in order to seek out their views on the range of matters that affect our competitive position.
What we are seeking here is not just a list of things for government to do or all governments to do, but a list of proposals for all stakeholders, all participants in the Canadian economy, whether it is government, management, labour, educators or scientists.
What we are hoping to do through these consultations is generate a broader understanding of the issues involved here, and through that broader understanding seek a change in attitude that will be supportive of the broad range of measures that will be needed in order to support science and technology, training, retraining, investment, how we do in domestic markets, and how we succeed in penetrating international markets.


A supplementary, if there is such a thing in this House. There certainly should be a supplementary to a government question.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the feisty minister of employment. I am sure he will want to acknowledge that the Atlantic fisheries aid package is being run in a very unfair way. For example, people who because of the disastrous fishing season were obliged to reactivate their old UI claims are being excluded from the aid package even though their claims are now running out.
I wonder if the minister would indicate what steps he is prepared to take, in the interests of fairness, to correct this very unfair situation?


Mr. Speaker, I think the minister of fisheries indicated earlier this week that the program which was announced was being administered according to the rules that were laid down. He also indicated that
Oral Questions
there were some problems with some people with a long attachment to the fishery who were not qualifying.
The question of the hon. member does not allow me to know exactly what he is talking about. If he is talking about the plight of fishermen, it is difficult. That is why we have come up with this $57 million support program for fishermen. If the hon. member would care to be more specific, maybe I could help him.


Mr. Speaker, I thought I had been very specific with the minister. People who are on claims which are now running out are being prevented on a technicality from qualifying under the program. I ask if he will take that under advisement to see if something can be done.
I have a supplementary question. Many people who have demonstrated a clear connection over the long term to the fishery are also being denied access to the program despite the utterances of his colleague, the minister of fisheries. They are being denied because they do not happen in this year to have sufficient insurable weeks.
Will he undertake to review the program's guidelines so that the people who really need this assistance this winter get it while there is still time?


Mr. Speaker, I can indicate to the hon. member that I will be pleased to look at the question of those claims he mentioned. I will look at it personally.
As for the other issue, whether to revisit the guidelines, I am surely capable of doing that but I do not want to raise false expectations in Newfoundland. I will do as the hon. member asks.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Agriculture.
Farmers in Ontario have repeatedly asked for clarification of the federal policy and for market entry support for grain based ethanol. They have been waiting for years.
Can the minister assure me and the Canadian farmers that the wait is over?

Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member's ongoing interest in this important issue is to be recognized.
I answered a question of a colleague in the House last week talking about ethanol and the reasons why Canada supported ethanol and the production of that product. It helps us in the environment. It also helps us use a renewable comment in the grains and oilseeds sector.
As the hon. member is aware, there is one commercial ethanol production plant in Ontario at this time. Some provinces have put forward initiatives which would help the establishment of plants to produce ethanol. I hope that we are able to work co-operatively as we have in the past federally and provincially to continue with this important project.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question which is supplementary to the very penetrating question from the member for Cambridge and is to the Minister of Industry, Science and Technology.
I quite agree that consultations with representative and responsible people are very interesting. Can the minister please explain to this House and the Canadian people how this public consultation of 150 consultations in communities across the country- the first was a trial experiment in my riding when the two questions were "Your wish" and "How to"- is going to contribute to international competitiveness after two and a half hours of dialogue on those interesting two general questions?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his not quite so penetrating question.
I know that my hon. friend supports the approach that we are taking to consult with Canadians. I think the meeting in his riding was a good meeting.
What we are trying to achieve here is, as I said in previous answers, to get Canadians talking about this
range of issues that are out in the consultation papers that my hon. friend, the Minister of Employment and Immigration, and I have put out on behalf of the government.
If the member had attended the workshops that were a part of that meeting, he we would have seen that there was good dialogue-


I think we will have to move on.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Transport.
Today a very serious conflict exists in the lobster fishery in southern Nova Scotia. One of the concerns of the lobster fishermen is that they feel they are not getting fair access to air cargo space for transport to the lucrative Christmas European lobster market.
I ask the minister if she will immediately look into this matter to make sure that air cargo space is available on the east coast for all the lobsters to go to the European market that can be shipped.


Yes, Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is to the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Fisheries in the absence of the Minister of Fisheries.
A report in one of the newspapers in southwestern Nova Scotia is that the quotas for 1992 in the Scotia-Fundy region in the groundfishery will be increased.
As the fishermen in the area need to know immediately before they are forced to transfer more quotas to companies, will the parliamentary secretary look into whether or not these quotas will be increased and tell the people in the Scotia-Fundy area if they will be?


Mr. Speaker, I can tell the hon. member opposite, yes, we will look at that immediately.
December 4, 1991


Mr. Speaker, I was starting to get worried. My question is for the Minister of the Environment.
Canadians have waited patiently through four years of federal delay for comprehensive national standards to clean up Canada's biggest polluter, the pulp and paper industry, and today learned that the Minister of the Environment has offered the industiy exactly what it wanted: a six-year toxic dumping holiday in all cases until December 1995 for special cases and no target or timetable for phase-out of organo-chlorines despite the support of his own department for such action.
Will the minister at least admit to Canadians that the over-all level of toxic organo-chlorines will continue to rise in our environment, in our water, in our fish and in our ecology as a result of the minister's decision to not decrease?


Mr. Speaker, that is false. Let me start with the member's assertion that we have offered some sort of a toxic holiday for a period of six years. I do not know where he takes those numbers from. In fact, we are bringing forward regulations under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act for dioxins and furans that will come into effect for mills constructed before 1990 in January of 1994 and for mills constructed after 1990 immediately.
Those regulations will have the effect of reducing the amount of organo-chlorides to below two kilograms per tonne, a net reduction of 600,000 tonnes of organo-chlorides at 1980 levels for the year 1993. That is a result of our regulation which, by the way, compares very, very well to any similar regulations that the hon. member will find anywhere around the world.


A very, very, short supplemental.


My supplementary, Mr. Speaker, is for the same minister.
Yesterday the Auditor General identified misleading information and overstatement of penalties as being
Privilege
serious problems in environmental protection