Mr. Speaker, I wish to bring a matter of privilege to the attention of the House.
It is my contention that my privileges and those of the House have been breached and that the actions of another person are in contempt of Parliament. I will deviate from the House to a committee for only a very brief moment. With the indulgence of Mr. Speaker, I will demonstrate how the issue affects the House as a whole.
In November of this year, in my capacity as a member of Parliament, I requested that the clerk of the sub-committee on justice reviewing the Criminal Code, Mr. Richard Dupuis, invite Mrs. Sheryl Eckstein of Vancouver to testify before the committee. Mrs. Eckstein did testify before that committee on November 24, I believe it was. It is about that issue I now wish to speak.
After her testimony, Mrs. Eckstein was intimidated by a person at the employ of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. The individual in question, Mrs. Kelly Crichton of the CBC, contacted Mrs. Eckstein yesterday to inform her that the issue of her testimony had been referred to the legal department of the CBC to be looked into. The implication was that there would be a lawsuit or a threat of a lawsuit against the individual for her testimony before the committee.
I do not wish to discuss the merits of the testimony of the individual although of course I could. That is not at
issue here. The issue is whether or not this Parliament has a right to listen to any witness without the intimidation of anyone else. I do believe that right is ours.
I will make my summation brief because the bill before us today is one on which many of my colleagues wish to speak, but I do want to remind the Speaker of a few citations. Erskine May's 20th edition, page 116, states:
- all witnesses summoned to attend before either House of Parliament, or before parliamentary committees, and to others in personal attendance upon the business of Parliament, in coming, staying, and returning -
-to the House enjoy the same privileges as members of the House of Commons. In other words, they cannot be sued for anything they say or bring to the attention of the committee.
I also want to mention two other definitions. One of them involves Mr. Maingot's Parliamentary Privilege in Canada. That has to do with obstructing or interfering with a person other than a member, a person who wants to testify before either a committee or the House. I quote:
All persons who have business with the House of Commons receive the temporary protection of the House during the time they are en route to the House of Commons or to the place of the parliamentary proceedings with which they have business, while they are involved and taking part in the parliamentary proceeding and while they are returning from the parliamentary proceeding. This includes witnesses who appear before committees, whether summoned or invited, counsel to witnesses, petitioners delivering petitions to members of Parliament, and persons involved in advancing the cause of a private bill to be discussed.
I cite the following as well:
For example, whether contempt of the House had been committed by tampering with a witness would depend on the facts in each case.
In other words, Mr. Maingot says that there are, in fact, cases where this can be deemed to be contempt of the House.

December 4, 1992
Privilege
Mr. Speaker, I want to remind you as well of Beau-chesne's citation 853:
Every witness appearing before the House or any committee thereof may claim the protection of the House-
-not the committee, of the House-
- in respect to the evidence to be given.
Citation 865 says that:
To tamper with a witness in regard to the evidence to be given before the House or any committee or to endeavour, directly or indirectly, to deter or hinder any person from appearing or giving evidence is a breach of privilege.
Mr. Speaker, the case I bring before you is quite clear. For someone to have contacted a witness who appeared before a parliamentary committee and to have threatened that witness is not an offence to be brought strictly before the committee. It is an offence against the House because of course the allegation or the threat was not made in committee. It was made completely outside of the House of Commons but in relation to the proceedings of a committee of this House.
Furthermore, I want to present the argument that were such threats to go on unchallenged, they can and would undoubtedly be repeated, that individuals from now on would no longer enjoy the security they have had from time immemorial to testify before Parliament without the threat of being sued or intimidated by anyone. That, Mr. Speaker, is far more important than anything else.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I wish to bring to your attention in the unlikely event that you would be tempted to rule that this matter should be dealt with at committee, that in fact the committees are in the process of winding down for the Christmas period.
This evidence was brought before a sub-committee which has terminated its proceedings for the next few months. Therefore, the evidence on this could only be heard before committee in a number of months from now at the earliest, if at all, in the event of a prorogation of Parliament later. Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I submit to you and to all my colleagues in the House that we must address this issue as an institution.
I wish also to indicate to you, Mr. Speaker, that were you to find that there is a prima facie case of privilege, as I claim there is, I am prepared to move the appropriate motion in order that this most important issue of the testimony of and the threat against Mrs. Sheryl Eckstein be referred to the parliamentary committee on procedure, privileges and elections.
Mr. Speaker, in closing I want to indicate to you that the CBC individual in question has confirmed her phone call with Mrs. Eckstein before the media in an article today by Mr. Peter Stockland of the Sun chain of newspapers. In fact she has confirmed having made the communication to Mrs. Eckstein. I submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that there is independent verification of the fact the communication actually took place.
I wish to thank you, Mr. Speaker, and all my colleagues for listening to what I believe is an issue that could affect the privileges of all of us.
Finally, let us remember that the actions in question go far beyond our privileges. In my view, the actions of the individual are contemptuous of this great institution, and that is an issue which I hope you will address.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to join with my colleague in bringing this issue before you and before the House. I would expect it is a matter of concern to all members of the House.
In addition to the references given by the member, I would like to refer to page 132 of Erskine May's 21st edition where it seems to be very clear that it is a breach of privilege to attempt by persuasion or solicitations of any kind to induce a witness not to attend or to give false evidence.
Without repeating the arguments, I would just like to make a couple of quick points. First, it may be relevant to your consideration that the alleged offence occurred after the witness gave evidence to the committee. In my submission that does not affect the question of the privileges of this House because the affect of the threat to sue would be chilling on future witnesses before committees or before this House. It is therefore relevant that you examine whether the threat to sue in these circumstances is a prima facie breach of privilege.
The CBC has said the basis of its concern was that the material was used out of context. That of course gets to the substance of the issue, but be that as it may a threat to sue for use of CBC material surely goes far beyond an expression of some concern of the context. That issue could have and should have been raised directly with the committee.
December 4, 1992

Finally, let me say I agree with the member that this should simply referred back to the committee. It is important for this House to establish and reaffirm the privileges that it has in hearing witnesses and having them freed from a threat of suit which as the member indicated is not likely to have had any force or substance given the rules of this House.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for Glengariy-Prescott-Russell for bringing this matter to the attention of the House. I appreciate the argument that my friend from Victoria has made as well about the "after the fact" alleged threat and its possible chill effect.
I have just had handed to me by my friend from Glengarry-Prescott-Russell a copy of the Ottawa Sun article from this morning and a quick glance at it seems to suggest there may be an issue of copyright involved in this. It is not for us to judge that at this point. I think that and other issues raised by my friend from Glengarry- Prescott-Russell would properly be the subject of the committee on privileges and elections.
It seems to me there is a prima facie case here and I would support, if you should so rule, Sir, the referral of the matter to that committee.


['I do not know what the government is going to call. I am going to take a few minutes to consider the representations that have been made to me and the government can make its own decision as to whether it is calling this particular bill. I do not intend to hold up the commencement of the debate but I do want to consider my position for a few minutes.']
First of all I thank the hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell for bringing this matter to the House, the hon. member for Victoria who has made a helpful intervention, and the parliamentary secretary on behalf of the government.
Some mention has been made that this matter arose in a committee and hon. members will have heard me say many times that usually matters should be put back to committee. My own feeling is that under the circumstances which have been explained to me that is not the convenient or appropriate thing to do at this time.
I have listened carefully to what was said. I think this is an appropriate case for the Chair to rule that there is a prima facie case for privilege. I would ask the hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell to move his motion.
Point of Order


Mr. Speaker, I move:
That the matter of the threats by Miss Kelly Crichton against Miss
Sheryl Eckstein, a witness before a parliamentary committee, be
referred to the Standing Committee on House Management.


The House has heard the motion. Is the House in agreement?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order concerning Bill C-93, an omnibus bill which is to be debated under House orders in a few moments. I want to take this occasion to put some procedural arguments before the Chair.
Six sitting days ago Bill C-93 was first tabled in the House. We are here today and the government wishes to proceed with second reading, which I suggest to the Chair is the most important aspect of a bill. This is where the principles are ascertained, promoted and debated quite vigorously.
In the budget of last February the government announced that for reasons of economy it planned to fold a number of agencies into other agencies or departments doing similar work.
Bill C-93 is intended to give legislative authority to the government's announcement with regard to 10 agencies performing distinctive functions. The long title of Bill C-93, an act to implement certain government organization provisions of the budget tabled in the House of Commons on February 25, 1992, is intended to mask the real complexities of the bill.
It puts forward the fiction that the bill is merely a cost cutting measure eliminating a bunch of redundant or archaic agencies. In fact an examination of the bill reveals that while it does not wind up some agencies thereby saving some money, it also makes major changes to public policy with regard to the role of government. The bill amends or repeals no fewer than 27 existing statutes and enacts one completely new statute.

December 4, 1992
Point of Order
If properly drafted the long title would indicate its purpose of terminating specific agencies by name. This would of course uncover the real purpose of the bill in the guise of cutting costs and eliminating some redundant bodies to eliminate a number of government agencies that in the course of effectively carrying out their responsibilities have become thorns in the government's side.
Superficially the principle of the bill, the government purports, is to reduce the cost of government. In reality, however, it raises the principles of maintaining-


Just a moment, the hon. parliamentary secretary is rising.


Mr. Speaker, I listened with care to what my hon. friend was saying. It seems to me that if there is a point of order to be made it ought to be made with expedition.
What my friend is doing is anticipating debate under Government Orders and we have not got to that yet. He is in fact beginning a debate that has not yet been called.


I thank the hon. parliamentary secretary for his intervention.
I am listening very carefully to the hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond. I think he is reaching his point and I know that he,will be as concise as he always is.


Mr. Speaker, I am happy for the intervention of the parliamentary secretary. Perhaps I might be able to facilitate the process whereby Bill C-93 in its present form would not come forward.
I wish to remind the House of Beauchesne's 6th edition dealing with this particular matter in the following citation 634:
Speakers have expressed deep concern about the use of omnibus bills, and have suggested that there must be "a point where we go beyond what is acceptable from a strictly parliamentary standpoint". Nevertheless, the practice of using one bill to demand one decision on a number of quite different, although related subjects, while a matter of concern, is an issue on which the Speaker will not intervene to divide the bill.
Citation 635 states:
In the case of an omnibus bill, the Speaker has encouraged the use of motions to delete a clause at the report stage, pursuant to Standing Order 76(2) to permit the House to decide a specific issue contained in
an omnibus bill, even though the motion might offend the principle of the bill.
In support of my argument I would like to quote from Hansard of March 1, 1982 when the hon. member for Calgary Centre said in the House, as reported at page 15479, with regard to an energy bill which had been tabled at that time:
That is the title of an omnibus bill with a capital O and a capital B. Indeed, I would argue that it would be more accurately described as an "omnifarious bill", meaning of all sorts, or perhaps an "omnific" bill, meaning all-creating. Certainly there has never before in the history of Parliament been included in one proposed bill such an incredible hodge-podge and mish-mash of such disparate items.
Furthermore, in the final quote given to the Chair, the same hon. member went on to quote from the Hon. Lucien Lamoureux, as reported in the House of Commons Journals for January 26, 1971, at page 284:
However, where do we stop? Where is the point of no return? The honourable member for Winnipeg North Centre, and I believe the honourable member for Edmonton West, said that we might reach the point where we would have only one bill, a bill at the start of the session for the improvement of the quality of life in Canada which would include every single proposed piece of legislation for the session. That would be an omnibus bill with a capital O and a capital B. But would it be acceptable legislation? There must be a point where we go beyond what is acceptable from a strictly parliamentary standpoint.
I suggest in conclusion that this particular bill because of its width, because of the various agencies that it affects, because of the way in which it changes public policy in this country, ought to be sent back to the drafters and divided accordingly and then brought back to this House.
As Bill C-93 stands as an omnibus bill, I hope the Chair would take my arguments into consideration and send this bill back to the drafters.
I raise this point now, in response to the parliamentary secretary, because there were indications that we would be proceeding with second reading today. Maybe that is not the case. If that is not the case, that indeed gives further comfort and further ease to the government to take the bill back to the drafters and do so appropriately.


Mr. Speaker, I have a sense of having been here before. I think this whole argument has been gone through as recently as March 30 of this year. The budget of course was approved last March 11 and an issue was raised by other members, I think the member
December 4, 1992

for Kamloops and the member for North Island-Powell River. Indeed it was triggered by our friend from Cape Breton-East Richmond on March 30.
The arguments made by my predecessor, the hon. member for Peace River, ought to guide us in looking at the point of the member for Cape Breton-East Richmond in this particular case.
The umbrella of this particular legislation was made very clear in the budget. It indicated very clearly that the government planned to dissolve or terminate a number of corporations and other bodies for a central theme. That is the ability to cut government expenditures and, therefore, as much as possible relieve the burden on the Canadian taxpayer and to reduce the stress and pressure of this very difficult debt situation we are faced with in this country. That, said my colleague, the member for Peace River, is the umbrella. The term umbrella was used advisedly because it is found in Beauchesne's sixth edition, page 192, citation 626:
(1) Although there is no specific set of rules or guidelines governing the content of a bill, there should be a theme of relevancy amongst the contents of a bill. They must be relevant to and subject to the umbrella which is raised by the terminology of the long title of the bill.
We might refer in this particular case to the debates of June 8, 1988, page 16255 of Hansard. The Chair at that time agreed with the best definition. You, Sir, agreed with the hon. member for Windsor West in his quotation from page 15880 of Hansard for May 30, 1988:
The essential defence of an omnibus procedure is that the Bill in question, although it may seek to create or to amend many disparate statutes, in effect has one basic principle or purpose which ties together all the proposed enactments and thereby renders the Bill intelligible for parliamentary purposes.
You, Sir, at that time said that the Chair was grateful to the member for Windsor West for those words and that they had assisted you greatly in arriving at your decision. I would submit that the facts of the point my friend has raised are virtually four square with the points raised on June 8, 1988 and again in the point of order raised by this same member on March 30, 1992 and that it should not be difficult for you to make the same decision on this occasion so that the business of the House might proceed.
Government Orders


I do not know what the government is going to call. I am going to take a few minutes to consider the representations that have been made to me and the government can make its own decision as to whether it is calling this particular bill. I do not intend to hold up the commencement of the debate but I do want to consider my position for a few minutes.


that Bill C-93, an act to implement certain government organization provisions of the budget tabled in the House of Commons on February 25, 1992, be read the second time and referred to a legislative committee in the Economics envelope.


Madam Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I think you would find it appropriate to move the adjournment of the House. The appropriate ministers are not here.


The hon. member should know that he cannot move the adjournment of the House under a point of order.


Madam Speaker, I am pleased to begin debate on Bill C-93, an act that will help restructure and streamline the operations of government in order to improve both efficiency and service to Canadians.
Part of the reason I am pleased to begin this debate is that certainly one of my concerns prior to my election to Parliament back in 1988 was the whole business of how government delivered service and programs and how did we best provide to the people of Canada the things that were of value to them. I believe that this bill goes a long way in that direction.
As proposed in the February 1992 budget, passage of legislation before us today will allow for a number of government operations to be consolidated or merged with other operations of government. The 1992 budget reflected the advice received by the Minister of Finance

December 4, 1992
Government Orders
during his extensive pre-budget consultations with Canadians from all walks of life and from all regions of the country. While he heard many differing views on how best to meet the economic challenges faced by Canada, he heard one particular view over and over again. Put simply, it was that the structure of government did not yet reflect the realities of the new global economy.
We are reminded on a daily basis that the world economy has changed dramatically in the past decade, in particular accelerating technological advancements have extended competition beyond national boundaries. In the process international markets and customers we once considered secure are now up for grabs. To be competitive and preserve our markets, Canadian firms have had to be more efficient. They have had to face the challenge of cutting costs without sacrificing quality in order to provide superior goods and services at lower prices than our competitors.
Despite the hardships of an international economic slowdown, there are indications that Canadian businesses and their employees are succeeding. An array of recent statistics points to the fact that the international competitiveness of Canadian industry is on the rise. For example, the growth in unit labour costs in Canada has dropped from about 8 per cent in early 1991 to 1.5 per cent in the first half of this year. Only the U.S. has a better 1992 record among the G-7 countries. Not coincidentally, Canadian exports rose 9.5 per cent in the first half, reaching a record of $13 billion in August. Certainly in my constituency I can confirm that businesses are saying it is still continuing so there is good news there.
However, the need to restructure to increase our international competitiveness is not exclusive to the private sector. Government must also become leaner, more efficient and more productive. Where services are duplicated they must be merged. Where programs are obsolete they must be eliminated. Where savings can be achieved, particularly in administrative overhead, they must be realised.
In effect, governments must continue to serve their constituents effectively but they must do so with less resources. In so doing, governments will be taking the kind of actions that the private sector is having to take and has been taking for quite some time. They will
demonstrate to Canadians that they are not insulated from the real world and that they are responding to the same competitive pressures that are buffeting the private sector.
On a practical level, reducing expenditures will help to control the deficit and the national debt which in turn will lead to lower interest rates and a reduced tax burden for Canadians and Canadian businesses.
We on this side of the House have worked to reduce the size and cost of the federal government. We have restrained federal spending, including public sector wages. On Wednesday of this week there were some additional actions announced that were most important in that direction. We have implemented the Spending Control Act and the Debt Servicing and Reduction Account to ensure that fiscal responsibility is a matter of law. By privatizing over 20 Crown corporations we have reduced the public payroll by some 50,000 employees.
Nevertheless we realize, as do Canadians, that the task of streamlining the federal government and making it more efficient is not yet complete. Bill C-93 is another step in that direction.
The budget implementation government organizations bill is the second of a series of omnibus bills designed to give effect to the government's streamlining measures announced in the 1992 budget. The purpose of the bill is to reduce government overhead and to provide services to Canadians more efficiently.
The bill includes the necessary amendments required to give full effect to the budget decisions affecting 15 different organizations. I want to consider now the specific organizations addressed in Bill C-93.
I would note that any pulic servants affected by the reorganizations in this bill will be covered by the government's work force adjustment policy. The policy provides for notice of layoff, opportunities for alterntive employment and arrangements for termination of employment.
The legislation provides for the winding up of the Agricultural Products Board. Over the years the board has provided an important service in stabilizing markets for agricultural commodities. However, the function can be exercised more efficiently on the basis of an amended
December 4, 1992

Agricultural Products Co-operative Marketing Act with the support of the Department of Agriculture.
Along similar lines, the positive features of Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation will be retained after the corporation is folded into the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. In particular, financial assistance will continue to be available for new and existing businesses that are likely to make a substantial contribution to industrial development and employment opportunities in Cape Breton Island outside of the coal producing and steel industries. ACOA's new statutory powers will be restricted to Cape Breton Island and a portion of mainland Nova Scotia around the town of Mulgrave.
Dissolving the ECBC and carrying over its specific statutory powers to ACOA will eliminate a duplication in program delivery and the administrative overlap which that duplication entails. For example, the post-merger staff complement of ACOA's Cape Breton office is projected to be reduced by 23 person-years from 72 to 40. ACOA clients in Cape Breton will be the beneficiaries of increased efficiency in promotion, financial assistance and development of industry on the island.
Passage of Bill C-93 will result in the creation of a new, single cultural agency by combining the Canada Council and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council. I want to emphasize that despite fiscal pressures, our government has continued to provide significant levels of funding for the arts and the humanities. We believe that Canadian culture has a vital role in fostering a vigorous and unified nation.
The new agency will deal with a full range of cultural matters, including international cultural programs and international academic relations currently under the auspices of the Department of External Affairs. Under the provisions of the act, the new council will be required to take Canada's foreign policy into account in fulfilling its mandate.
The merger will result in increased efficiency in the delivery of programs and services such as grants to artists, promotion of the arts and the provision of scholarships in the social sciences and humanities. As a result, we will enhance our capacity to project our
Government Orders
national personality and the expression of our culture abroad.
To realize savings in administrative overhead, the government proposes to fold the Canadian Commercial Corporation into the Department of Supply and Services. However, given the nature of the CCC's function, its dissolution will be phased in. Nevertheless, administrative savings of $1 million have already been identified from the corporation's 1992-93 appropriation of $14.9 million.
The CCC facilitates exports by Canadian suppliers, particularly defence products to foreign governments. Last year, the total value of orders obtained by the corporation on behalf of some 500 Canadian suppliers totalled $678 million. Moreover, the CCC's business involves more than 2,000 ongoing contracts in a least 50 countries. Therefore, we propose a gradual dissolution of the CCC until the Minister of Supply and Services is satisfied that there will be no detrimental effects on our exports and our trade relations with other countries. In the interim, the CCC will remain a corporate entity.
The government also proposes that Emergency Preparedness Canada be folded back into the Department of National Defence. This is an appropriate action given that Emergency Preparedness Canada was housed within the Department of National Defence prior to 1988 and still reports to the Minister of National Defence.
The budget papers did note that EPC's functions in relation to planning and co-ordinating civil emergency preparedness remain essential. However, its separate organizational status is not necessary for the effective fulfilment of that mandate. Moreover, folding EPC back into the Department of National Defence will allow for its functions to be continued at a lower cost in administrative overhead.
Bill C-93 additionally provides for the amalgamation of the RCMP External Review Committee and the RCMP Public Complaints Commission into a single body entitled the Independent Review Commission for the RCMP.
As was the case with the agencies being replaced, the new body will be independent from the RCMP. It will deal with public complaints concerning the conduct of RCMP officers and review appeals and grievances for members of the RCMP.

December 4, 1992
Government Orders
Consolidating these two similar agencies will achieve savings in administrative overhead, eliminate duplication of services and allow for increased efficiency and program delivery. This action will result in the reduction of seven person-years and one Governor in Council appointment and annual saving of about $1 million.
Efficiency gains will also be realized by merging the Copyright Board, the Trade Marks Opposition Board and the Patent Appeal Board to form the new intellectual property tribunal. Its duties will include the fixing of royalties which the performing rights societies may collect in return for granting licences for the performance of dramatic or musical works. The tribunal will also decide on how royalties should be divided, including those generated by the retransmission of television and radio signals. The intellectual property tribunal will arbitrate dispute on copyright royalties and decide opposition and cancellation procedures arising under the Trade Marks Act.
As recommended by an independent report, the tribunal will bring together an expanded wealth of intellectual property law and expertise into one organization. Industry sectors involved in the use of intellectual property will benefit through improved service and greater expertise among board members. Given that the tribunal at times will rule on government decisions it will be independent of the government.
The legislation also provides for the merger of the Procurement Review Board and the Canadian International Trade Tribunal. Following the merger, the new organization will be named the international trade and procurement tribunal and report to Parliament through the Minister of Finance.
Amalgamating the PRB and the Cll 1 is a logical course of action. As members will know, these two entities provide similar services pertaining to complaints from Canadian and American suppliers about unfair trading practices. While the PRB's authority is limited to government procurement decisions within the scope of the free trade agreement, both bodies conduct investigations, hold hearings, uphold or dismiss complaints and if necessary determine remedies.
The new entity will provide increased administrative efficiencies from the sharing of personnel and overhead. For those who fear that the expertise accumulated by the PRB will be lost in the merger, I want to assure them this is not the case. As the new name implies, the international trade and procurement tribunal will have a separate division that will deal solely with matters of government procurement.
The government also intends to wind up the Petroleum Monitoring Agency. Its functions will be assumed in the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources. For those who are unfamiliar with the PMA, the agency publishes semi-annual and annual ownership surveys of the petroleum industry as well as other specific reports as requested by the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources to whom the PMA currently reports.
This streamlining action builds upon the efficiency gains that the PMA has achieved over the years which have already allowed for a steady decline of its size and budget. It also reflects the fact that administratively an independent agency with 10 person-years and a parttime chairman is not the most effective manner in which to perform the monitoring function. Monitoring the petroleum industry within EMR will result in annual savings of $300,000 over the PMA's 1991-92 budget and will require two less person-years.
Finally, the Veteran's Land Administration will be wound up and its function and responsibility will be transferred directly to the Department of Veterans Affairs. This merging of VLA operations with those of the department will allow greater economies while ensuring that the interests of veterans are fully protected.
I want to emphasize that the VLA program is not being abolished. Rather, the legislation merely reflects the fact the program is in its final phase. Established during the Second World War, the VLA program provides loans and other assistance to veterans purchasing property for farms and homes. However, no new loans have been made since 1977 and as of April 1, 1992 there were 10,603 loans outstanding as opposed to 144,000, 20 years ago. Given the declining VLA workload, it is appropriate that its separate agency status be terminated.
December 4, 1992

As I have described, Bill C-93 will result in significant administrative savings and increased efficiency in the delivery of government programs and services to Canadians.
It reflects the government's commitment to ensure that tax dollars are not wasted on funding duplicated services or excessive administration. The bill makes sensible changes in a reasonable way while ensuring that the national interest is served. Accordingly I would urge my hon. colleagues to ensure speedy passage of this most important piece of legislation.


Madam Speaker, I want to participate in this debate. I am anticipating that the Chair will rule in favour of my suggestion that the bill ought to be sent back to the drafters in order that it be brought back in its appropriate form.
Nevertheless, I wish to direct my comments to one aspect of Bill C-93 and that has to do with the amendments to the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. In this particular bill, as has been referred to by the hon. member opposite, the Government of Canada will be shutting down Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation. This was an agency put in place to facilitate and enhance economic development on the island of Cape Breton. That was part and parcel of Bill C-103 which was introduced back in 1987.
For the benefit of the House and those who are viewing our proceedings, I wish to share with the hon. members opposite as well as other members in the Chamber the historical significance that individuals in Cape Breton believe Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation could play now and in the future.
Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation was supposed to assume the role and responsibilities of the industrial development division of the Cape Breton Development Corporation. History is important, for in studying history we can learn what we have done well and what we have done not so well.
In 1967 the Government of Canada at the behest of the then member for Cape Breton-Highlands-Canso, who now sits in the other place, presented a piece of legislation before the House of Commons to create the Cape Breton Development Corporation. At that time the coal industry was in massive difficulty. Unemployment was rampant on the island. Economic opportunities were practically non-existent.
Government Orders
As a measure of goodwill and to try to enhance real opportunities the government of the day and particularly that member who was a minister of the Crown introduced the Cape Breton Development Corporation. It had two divisions. One was the coal division, the second was the industrial development division.
The purpose of the bill I would like to read into the record. At that time it was succinctly defined by the hon. Allan J. MacEachen in the House of Commons when he spoke on the motion introducing the corporation's enabling legislation: "To acquire, reorganize and rehabilitate certain coal mining works and undertakings on Cape Breton Island, to conduct coal mining operations in the Sydney coal fields and to promote and assist the development of industry on Cape Breton Island to provide employment outside the coal producing industry and to broaden the base of the island's economy".
It had two divisions with its own president, its own board of directors and its own mandate. It is important to remember this for the purposes of debate. Devco has had some successes and it has had some failures. I do not think anyone in this Chamber would doubt that. Having the two divisions enabled those individuals who are involved in the coal mining sector to have some sense of security for their future and some hope as to where we might go.
Since we are specifically talking about industrial development, I want to share with members what my colleague, Senator Graham, said in the upper House on May 26, 1988 from the Hansard of the Senate, page 3500. He talks about the industrial development division:
The industrial development division continues to fulfil its mandate by doing what the coal division cannot do in many of those communities whose history and economy are deeply rooted in coal. Among other things, the industrial development division provides urban and industrial infrastructure, supports the entrepreneurial development programs and supports local self help organization. We must underline and emphasize that the corporation is not two separate divisions with two mutually exclusive mandates; in reality, the mandate and the direction are the same, to modernize and diversify the Cape Breton economy.
The corporate mandate may be protected in legislation, but it is corporate policy that determines the results. The Cape Breton

Development Corporation has, through the policy decision, chosen to be socially responsible to the people of Cape Breton Island.
That was the essence of the corporation and that was in essence the work of the Industrial Developoment Division. The former chairman of the board of the Cape Breton Development Corporation, Dr. Theresa Mac-Neil, said in part:
The social conscience of the Cape Breton Development Corporation has long been possible by the work it assigned to the Industrial Development Division. It is possible through program retention to duplicate the current activities of the Industrial Development Division. That is not a problem. However, in doing so, the essence of the Cape Breton Development Corporation is being lost.
I share that with members of the House because historically we had the Cape Breton Development Corporation which was to do a number of things, as I have indicated, and the government comes along in October of 1986 and creates the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. That is in part I of the bill. In part II of the bill it did away with the Industrial Development Division and created what we now have, Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation, which the government now wishes to do away with.
In the Speech from the Throne on October 1, 1986 the Conservative government announced its intention to establish the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency in order to "facilitate and co-ordinate all federal development initiatives in that area".
That was October 1, 1986. This announcement was made by the Prime Minister on June 6, 1987 in Saint John with unbelievable fanfare. There was a huge press conference, a big news release, and a big reception. So vital was this new program that a mere six months later, a mere 14 months after the original announcement in the Speech from the Throne, the implementing legislation was finally introduced in the House of Commons in December of 1987.
The government's hypocrisy is rather breathtaking. It tells Atlantic Canadians that they are the real decision makers behind ACOA, which we know is not correct, and then warns them that they will be held culpable if ACOA fails.
The Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency was given a budget of $1.05 billion. All the wonderful press people
and the writers in The Globe and Mail and The Toronto Star and The Montreal Gazette and The Vancouver Sun used to say my goodness, what an unbelievable amount of money for Atlantic Canada.
I know my time is coming to an end, but I just want to close with this and then I can continue the debate afterwards.
That was $1.05 billion over five years, roughly $200 million a year for four individual provinces. It amounted roughly to $86.96 per person. That is what the announcement then made with regard to ACOA.
I see my time is up, but I hope to continue the debate after Routine Proceedings.


It being 11 o'clock, the House will now proceed to statements pursuant to Standing Order 31.


Madam Speaker, today La Presse reported the following, and I quote:
Minister of Defence Marcel Masse has decided to take concrete steps to ensure that francophones are able to work and advance within the armed forces in their own mother tongue.
"The Chief of Staff and the Minister of Defence have decided it is imperative that all courses (basic occupational) shall be offered in French starting September 1993", the minister announced when he appeared yesterday before parliament's official languages committee.
In doing so, Mr. Masse wants to remedy a major deficiency in the department and the Armed Forces which was pointed out by a departmental official languages committee.
According to a report published on November 15 this year, 41 per cent of the basic courses for various occupations are still not available in French. Basic technical training for officers is given in French in only 10 per cent of the cases.
"This is a situation we cannot tolerate, and changes must be made as soon as possible", said Mr. Masse. He added that in five years' time, all basic technical training courses should be available in both languages, for all branches of the service and all occupations.
December 4, 1992


Mr. Francis G. LeBlanc (Cape Breton Highlands-
Canso): Madam Speaker, a David and Goliath battle is shaping up in eastern Nova Scotia.
David is the town of Mulgrave, population of 951. Incorporated in 1923, Mulgrave is a proud town with a proud past. In recent years it has struggled against difficult odds to attract jobs for its residents. Unemployment in the town is between 23 per cent and upwards of 50 per cent depending on the measure one uses.
Goliath is the Royal Bank of Canada, the country's largest bank with assets of $132 billion and profits of $983 million in fiscal 1991.
The Royal Bank has decided to close its branch in Mulgrave which has been there for 81 years and consolidate its operations across the Strait of Canso in Port Hawkesbury. As a result, Mulgrave residents will lose the only bank in their community. They will have to travel a minimum of 28 kilometres round trip to obtain basic banking services.
This may be a small matter to the Royal Bank of Canada more accustomed to handling big accounts like Olympia and York, but it is no small matter to the residents of Mulgrave.
I am sorry but the hon. member's time has expired. The hon. member for Elgin-Norfolk.


Madam Speaker, corn and soybean producers in Ontario have suffered a devastating harvest.
A cold, wet growing season has produced one of the worst harvests in memory. As well, continued wet conditions this fall have prevented many farmers from harvesting their crops. Moisture levels in the crops that have been harvested are incredibly high.
Farmers are spending precious funds to dry corn that may only be suitable for animal feed. Many producers are finding that corn and soybean standing in the fields
are moulding and will be unsuitable even for animal feed.
I am pleased the Minister of Agriculture is providing assistance to these producers who are unable to harvest their crops. Farmers are devastated by this crop loss. I appreciate the Minister of Agriculture responding so quickly to the needs of the producers in Ontario.


Madam Speaker, once again the NDP is showing that its pretence to be the conscience of the nation and the protector of the disadvantaged vanishes the minute it holds power and has its hands on the purse-strings.
In a cruel blow without warning, the NDP government in Ontario cut $5 million from sheltered workshops for mentally disabled individuals. Further cuts of up to $1 billion in social services may mean the complete elimination of sheltered workshops. In this region alone 200 individuals are on the waiting list and 200 more may soon be out on the streets.
Yesterday, on the International Day of the Disabled, 700 participants, parents, care workers and volunteers, rallied to protest the inhumanity of the NDP government.
I plead with the NDP members in this House. Talk to your colleagues in Toronto. Tell them to stop harassing, punishing and depriving our most vulnerable citizens.


Madam Speaker, a constituent in my riding left her job in a home for mentally handicapped persons because of the mistreatment of the residents. She reported the information to the licensing board and the mental health officials and applied for UI. She was disqualified from UI for 12 weeks for quitting her job.
Now, a year later, the licensing body having investigated the home has cancelled its licence and removed the residents.

December 4, 1992
Under the government's new proposals, not only would she have been disqualified for 12 weeks but she would also have been denied any UI.
We should be congratulating this woman for standing up for the rights of the disadvantaged, not punishing her by denying her unemployment insurance.
With the threat of no unemployment insurance, others may not be so courageous putting the health and safety of group home residents at risk.


Madam Speaker, I rise to applaud the small business employment and investment package announced on Wednesday.
To encourage small business to expand and hire new employees, UI premium costs will be capped at 1992 levels. New enterprises will have a UI premium holiday for 1993.
Rules on investments in small business by RRSPs and labour-sponsored venture capital funds will be simplified and financing options expanded.
As well, a one year 10 per cent investment tax credit will be available for purchases of new machinery and equipment by small business in farming, fishing, mining, oil and gas, manufacturing, construction and long-haul transportation.
These measures will help those 800,000 private sector small business enterprises which are the engine of economic growth and the major source of job creation in this country.


Madam Speaker, in an attempt to reduce costs, the Department of National Defence is considering relocating the historic Vimy Band currently stationed at CFB Kingston to CFB Borden.
Moving the Vimy Band would require the transfer of 35 military personnel at an estimated cost of $409,500. By
comparison, relocating to Kingston the CFB Borden staff would require the expected transfer of eight personnel at a total cost of $96,300. This makes no sense.
Since its founding in 1952, the Vimy Band has been stationed in Kingston. Its ties with the community are very important for Kingston area residents and for the members of this great group of musicians.
If the department is serious about cost savings, look elsewhere. This scheme is ill-founded, ill-conceived and a major upset to the lives of 35 talented and competent musical soldiers.
I urge the department to re-examine this issue very carefully.


Madam Speaker, when the government was bringing in free trade, the opposition parties declared their full support for GATT, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. They said that we should enhance trade through multilateral negotiations.
The Liberal and NDP love GATT except when politics intervene. When it comes to complying with GATT on patent protection for brand name pharmaceuticals bringing our patent protection to the international standard of 20 years, then the opposition is against GATT.
Are the Liberals and the NDP in favour of GATT or not? How would they negotiate complex trade agreements? Will they be for or against GATT next spring when it concludes?
I look forward to learning of their positions.


Madam Speaker, on Sunday, November 6, the National Day of Remembrance and Action on Violence Against Women, we will remember the Montreal massacre and I will remember the many women in my riding who have been murdered on the streets and officially forgotten.
December 4, 1992

What action has the government taken for women facing violence? The mini budget provided no job creation, no shelters, and no child care to help women escape violent situations.
Instead, it victimized women with punitive new unemployment insurance restrictions. It announced a 10 per cent cut per year in funds for organizations fighting violence. It cut $136 million from native communities dealing with the pain of violence. These escalating c