That, in the opinion of this House, the government is incapable of providing leadership and direction in the economic and social affairs of the nation and has lost the confidence of this House and of the Canadian people and that, therefore, an election should be called forthwith, in accordance with the Canadian custom, practice and tradition of holding a general election at least every four years.
He said: Madam Speaker, I welcome the opportunity today to address this very important subject. I am sure all Canadians will listen carefully to today's debate and will reach the same conclusion I did: this government should call an election now. That would be a great idea.
I can hear the Tories opposite heckling, although the debate has barely started. Perhaps members opposite feel uncomfortable about this motion and don't like it. Are there any Conservatives opposed to this motion? Ah, the heckling has stopped, so we can assume they support it.
I move this motion today because I feel we need an election. The government has been in power four years, and according to Canadian tradition, four years is a full term. So it is now time to call an election.
Ibmorrow will be the anniversary, not a happy occasion, of the election held on November 21,1988. Bearing
that in mind, it would be appropriate to call an election now, and there are two reasons for this: first because, as I said earlier, this government's time has run out and, second, because the government no longer enjoys the confidence of Canadians.

I have here a newspaper article which I would like to read. It is dated yesterday. This is not something I said. This comes from a totally objective source, The Toronto Star. This source quotes the Gallup organization. It states:
The Gallup organization says that the Conservative Party today
enjoys the support of 22 per cent of Canadians.
The Liberal Party enjoys the support of 47 per cent. I say to my colleagues: "What do you think of that?"
As bad as 22 per cent might seem, they had an even worse level of support some time ago. Now the end-dippers, or the New Democrats as they are sometimes called, enjoy the support of a large number of Canadians, namely 14 per cent.
I say to the cousins of Bob Rae, 14 per cent is certainly all they deserve. The deform party-the Reform Party has the support of 11 per cent of Canadians. That is about 12 per cent too many. I say to the large contingent of the deform party-the Reform Party-present in the House right now that is more support than it deserves.
I notice some members across do not think that there should be an election called right now. I can detect that from their remarks.
I want to quote Hansard of December 9, 1983. Let me read the following quote and see if we can guess who said it: "The government should honour that fundamental British tradition in this country which calls for an election not in five years but within four years so that the people can judge the action of the government".


That sounds like Brian Mulroney.

November 20, 1992
Supply


Was that not well said? As far as I am concerned, those are immortal words. They are immortal words.
December 9, 1983, let us listen to this quote now: "I tell you it does happen that a government sits too long. It does become exhausted and bankrupt of ideas". Were those not fine words?


Hear, hear.


My colleagues all think they were fine words.
Let us hear a motion that was introduced in the House on December 9, 1983, by the then member for Central Nova. The then member for Central Nova in December 1983 just happens to represent the riding of Charlevoix today, and of course he is the Prime Minister, at least temporarily.
Here is what the then member for Central Nova said in December 1983. Listen to this, Madam Speaker, and I say to my colleagues: Pay attention because we will ask questions later. "This House regrets to inform Your Excellency that the government is incapable of providing leadership and direction in the social and economic affairs of the nation and has lost the confidence of this House and of all Canadian people, and therefore requires that an election be called"-listen to this now-"in accordance with the Canadian custom, practice and tradition of having a general election at least every four years".
Was that not well said? It was a brilliant remark from the then member for Central Nova. I say that if the then member for Central Nova, today the member for Charlevoix, was right in 1983, he is still right today. I am sure he will vote for my motion.
In a television interview right about the same time, the then member for Central Nova, today the member for Manicouagan-I am sorry for Charlevoix. I apologize to the member for Manicouagan. I in no way wanted to put to him to the level of the Prime Minister right now. It probably constitutes a question of privilege for him to have been so insulted, but I apologize to the member.
In a television interview in 1983 the then member for Central Nova said: "This is a country where historically a parliamentary majority has governed for four years or
less, not more". Well said, eh? There is more. I can assure that there is more. Let me continue.
On October 1, 1988, there was an election launch statement at Rideau Hall. We all remember that day. The Prime Minister called the election and then turned it into a free trade type of referendum which he was losing in the beginning and then got all the big corporate sector to bail him out. He finally won on that, although all Canadians were disappointed and we are all suffering from the lost jobs since then.
In any case, here is what he said on October 1, 1988: "It has been a Canadian tradition to call an election after a government has completed four years of a mandate". These are not words that the Prime Minister attributed to another party. He attributed that to his own government. His own government's mandate had expired after four years. The Prime Minister said so at Rideau Hall.
I am sure the Prime Minister told us the truth, as he always does, particularly when he speaks from Rideau Hall. There you go. Times change, and the Prime Minister's opinion changes from time to time. I wanted to put this as nicely as possible. Professor Jean-Luc Pepin described this uncanny knack of the Prime Ministers in the following way some years ago. He said that the Prime Minister suffers from an acute psychological need to embellish the truth. That was put very kindly. Anyway, the Prime Minister later had a modification of his opinion. Here is what he said:

"We are one year away from an election, and we will have time to discuss it". That was October 24,1992, in an interview with the Journal de Montreal. Amazing how the Prime Minister's position has changed. On October 24, 1992 he decided that his government's term would be five years instead of four, although in 1988 he said that the government's term would end after four years.


And he was right.


Of course he was right. We supported that at the time. In 1983 the Prime Minister said the previous government's term was up after four years. If it were true in 1983 and 1988, considering that today most Canadians would like to get rid of the present government, it is still true in 1992. Why did the Prime Minister change his mind? I have no idea. I have some more quotes.
November 20, 1992



These quotes are just excellent. I am sure they will be appreciated immensely.
A former member for Mississauga North, Alex Jupp, said this on October 19, 1979. We all remember Alex Jupp, of course. I see all my colleagues nodding in the affirmative. He said: "The dates for the calling of a general election should be prescribed every four years. We should not give prime ministers the right to play games with the electorate, with political parties and the lives of those who offer themselves for public office".
Brilliant, is it not?
Here is what the then member for Simcoe South, Ron Stewart, said in 1982. We all remember him, particularly francophones like myself. I remember him fondly for his support of APEC. I remember Mr. Stewart very fondly.


Was he one of the dinosaurs?


He was a prehistoric creature, but he was not a dinosaur. He said on May 4,1983: "As long as there is an alternative time to an election, the Prime Minister is able to pick and choose the time most favourable to him. His own interests become paramount, not those of the nation. There is always the temptation for the Prime Minister to use his power to retain power or to promote party ends, even though such ends may not be in the public good".


Oh, oh.


Ron Stewart said that.
Now let us hear what the member from the other place, Lowell Murray, said. We all know Lowell. Here is what he said on February 24, 1984: "After four years, Canadians are entitled to have their say about the government. After four years, Canada is entitled to a general election. For all practical purposes, after four years the government's term has come to an end".
I cannot wait till tomorrow because it will be four years. By the time we vote on this motion on Monday, the government's term would have expired two days prior, according to Lowell and according to the Prime Minister, according to his many pronouncements, save and except of course the one that he made recently. I know on that particular day he probably was not thinking straight.
Supply
Now let us hear what Professor Peter Hogg, professor of law at Osgoode Hall, said about all this in 1985. Listen to this eminent professor of law at Osgoode Hall. He said: "It is not the practice of the Canadian federal prime ministers to allow the House of Commons to continue until the expiration of the five-year term". It is very important. A professor of law says that the usual practice is for the Prime Minister to select what he regards as a propitious time for an election and to advise the Governor General to dissolve the House in time for that election.
Clearly the professor of law says it is not supposed to be five years. The Prime Minister said it is supposed to be four years. I say let us do it. Let us do it now. Canadians cannot wait.

I would now like to comment briefly on this government's record during the past nine years. Not a happy task, but it has to be done. I would like to quote a number of Conservatives. I know it is cruel to do this first thing in the morning, Madam Speaker, and I realize that you are objectivity itself, but I am afraid that just the same you will have to listen to all this. This is what was said.
In 1988 the Minister of Finance at the time said: "In three and a half years our economic achievements have been spectacular. Our policies and initiatives have created the successful economic climate we enjoy today". I wonder whether he could say the same today.
This is what the Prime Minister said on October 27, 1988, believe it or not: "My government has worked hard to promote our national interests, and we have bolstered our national sovereignty in various ways by putting our financial house in order". Imagine, we can hardly take that seriously.
Here is what the Prime Minister said in December
1983.	Hon. members will recall that in December 1983 he called for an election because the previous government was already four years old or just about. In fact, the government had not been in power for four years at the time. The government was elected in February 1980, so its term would not have expired until two months later. However, according to the then hon. member for Cen-

November 20, 1992
Supply
tral Nova an election had to be called. I will read the quote.

Here is what the member for Central Nova said at the time: "The problem with the Government of Canada, as presently constituted, is that it has lost the confidence of the people. Confidence is very fragile and difficult to define. Once you have lost it you can never recapture it. Once you have betrayed your word or you have let people down you have an enormous problem ahead of you".
Let us call an election. Let us do it now. That is what the people want. That is what I want. That is what my constituents want. Let us do it.


Madam Speaker, I listened with interest to the member's comment about four years ago. I was wondering if he would take his mind back to the majority government led by the hon. Pierre Trudeau who was elected on July 8, 1974 and did not bother going to the country until May 22, 1979; pretty close to 4 years and 10 months later.
Then maybe he could also take his mind back to the government of the right hon. Pierre Trudeau, elected on February 18, 1980, who did not bother going to the country until September 4, 1984; a little over 4 years and 6 months.
He will appreciate the four-year period expires on November 21, 1992, but that is in the middle of the winter. Surely we must also take a look at the time of year. It would be absolutely too ridiculous to try to run a general election through the winter.
We ran one through the winter in 1980. It was a heck of a hard election to run. I won that election, but wandering through snow banks trying to put signs up in frozen ground and trying to knock on doors at that time of year was impossible.
All I have to say to the member is: surely some common sense must prevail on the other side. Surely they have some more reason to demand an election. Maybe the reason is as declared by Mr. Hurtig in The Toronto Star this morning, wherein he said that while the Liberal Party has 47 per cent in the Gallup poll, its support across the country is only one-sixteenth inch deep. It is soft, soft, soft.


Madam Speaker, those were excellent questions.
I want to say to the member that it was his leader who, on at least three occasions, said that he would call an election every four years. He even said, about his own government, that its time expired four years and about two weeks after it started; actually it was four years and 26 days the last time. That is when the election was called. The Prime Minister himself said that his mandate had expired.


So did Lowell, and he is an expert.


So did Lowell, and he is an expert. Far be it for me to contradict Lowell.
The member across the way does not think we should have an election in winter because it is inconvenient. Let us ask Canadians which they prefer: having an election in winter or keeping the Tories until spring.
I know what they want. They would gladly put up with an election in winter if it means getting rid of those people across the way.


Madam Speaker, I first of all wanted to congratulate my colleague who made a presentation that is worth looking into very closely.

It was a well researched, comprehensive, insightful address. Whether we agree or do not agree with my colleague I think we have to acknowledge that he has proven beyond doubt that if the Prime Minister and his minister and advisers were to be true to themselves they would be calling an election.
But there may be another reason why an election should be called. This week has seen an unprecedented number of government fiascos: unemployment, which is at record highs and continues to climb; interest rates that continue to climb; the deficit and the debt which are out of control, if we look at the newspapers today; the airlines crisis which we have all experienced in the last several days; and the fisheries that are on virtual brink of collapse. Canadians have lost faith in this government. They have done so for some time now and they want an election.
November 20, 1992

While I acknowledge that my colleague has proven without doubt that if the Prime Minister and his key advisers were in fact true to the statements they have made in the past they would call an election, there is another equally important reason, perhaps deeper reason. I have given some examples of a government being unable to manage any more. I wonder if the member would care to react to that.


Madam Speaker, as usual my colleague is quite right and very insightful.
He indicated quite accurately that the people want an election. That is quite true. They do not just want it because it is something neat to have. They want it because this government is unable to govern any more, if it ever was.
My colleague has given examples of this government's lack of ability. There is one that is even deeper than the ones he mentioned. To me it was the report on child poverty that we saw earlier last week that over a million children were living below the poverty level and the fact in this country we have more food banks than we have McDonald's restaurants as we are speaking today. All that reflects in the support the government has.
I enumerated the level of popularity of the government at the beginning of my remarks. The reason why the people no longer want this government is not because they are simply tired of it or they do not want to look at it any more. It is because it is unable to govern. That is why the present government has less than half the support the opposition has.
There is a reason for that. The reason, as I say, is not just because people are fed up looking at them. It is because people do not think that the Conservatives can govern, and they cannot. Furthermore, according to the Prime Minister, his term has expired anyway. Therefore, as they say, let us not wait for spring; do it now.


Madam Speaker, I think the debate today should be extremely serious. It is one that concerns each and every one of us in this House.
Supply
The first 10 minutes of the hon. member's time were specifically related to remarking on various polls and the idea of polling and elections. Why do we not get down to the specifics?
There are problems. I am one who will acknowledge there are problems with regard to the economy and social conditions. I would hope that today maybe all of us would enter into a debate where we could share ideas, look at specific problems, and how we could reallocate funding in regard to helping those people who are really in need.
If the member is calling for funding cuts in certain departments so we can help those people in need or for a boost to the economy by helping people get educated or better trained, I am willing to listen to him; but I do not think we want to spend the day shooting arrows at one another. Why do we not work together to resolve the problems?


Madam Speaker, the member might not like the fact that we are quoting the Prime Minister. Perhaps it is unfair to quote the Prime Minister using his words, or maybe she thinks it is unfair, but it is too late to repent. The mandate is up, not just according to me or according to our tradition, but more so according to the Prime Minister himself.
The mandate has expired. No death-bed repentance will do any good for the member across the way or her colleague, the minister over there, or any one else. Time is up. Call an election. That is what we need to do right now. That is what the people want.
It is clear this government no longer has the moral authority to govern, the authority according to the Prime Minister to govern, or the level of support necessary to govern. It has to call an election according to the rules it has set down for itself.


Madam Speaker, I really looked forward to participating in this debate today. It is a very serious one and one to which I want to contribute.
The member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell asserts that the government cannot provide leadership and direction in the economic and social affairs of the nation

November 20, 1992
Supply
and that there has been a loss of confidence in the House and with the Canadian people.
I find this extremely unfair and incorrect. It makes me realize more than ever that many of us in this House, indeed the hon. member and some of his colleagues on the opposite side, have lost touch with reality and what makes this country tick.
What makes this country tick has a great deal to do with revenues in and moneys out. Therefore, let me just start with regard to moneys in and moneys out. If we turn to the 1982 budget presented by the Minister of Finance we find on page 98 the budgetary expenditures. They are listed there. With regard to major transfers to persons including old age security, unemployment insurance benefits and family allowances, there is $42.3 billion.
Let us look at other major transfers to other levels of government. The EPF goes to health care and post-secondary education in the provinces, the CAP provides 50 cents on the dollar for social services in the provinces, and equalization in transfer payments help those provinces that perhaps do not have the revenues or the ability to raise funds to provide similar or basic services across the country. The federal government transfers in the area of $24.1 billion. Add those up. It comes to $66.5 billion, which is two-thirds of the amount of money we as a government will be expending in the year 1992-93. Along with that, payments are made to Crown corporations and defence, international assistance and government operations. The total spending is $119.4 billion. The public debt charges are $40.2 billion. Therefore the total spending will be $159.6 billion.
We cannot get away from servicing the debt like my friends in the NDP would like to do. At the same time we have to take a look at the money that comes in. Revenues come in from personal and corporate income tax, UI, sales and excise taxes, the goods and services tax. Those revenues go to help service the debt and pay down the deficit along with other revenues.
The budget estimate was $132.1 billion. We are in a recession, as is the rest of the world, and money is not coming in. Therefore we have a deficit, a major problem. Why do we not get to the basics of how we can reallocate funding to help those people really in need and get the economy moving in this country?
Let us start with the United Nations. The United Nations placed Canada first in the world based on factors
such as life expectancy, education levels and our purchasing power. It ranks us ahead of other nations known for economic strength, such as Japan and the United States. All of us have to recognize, especially in the year of our 125th birthday, that Canadians are really proud of our country.
I learned during the referendum debate that Canadians from coast to coast are proud to belong to this country and proud of our achievements. They all want a good future that includes ten provinces and two territories. They have confidence in this country and in this government to exercise and show the way to a brighter future. But there are no simple solutions and no magic formula. We have made very tough decisions to make sure the economy did stay strong and could provide the social services that are needed. They could be sustained but we have to improve them.
Look at what happened during the 1970s and the early 1980s. Money was borrowed to pay for programs. That was the the decision of Liberal government of the day, and rightly so. It felt it could borrow money to provide programs. It went from a surplus in 1969 which was in the area of about $300 million, to a deficit in of about $38 billion in 1984. The Liberal government was providing programs to the people of Canada on borrowed money.
When we came into power we had to turn things around. Today we do not borrow money to pay for programs. Our programs are all paid for by revenues that are taken in. In fact, we had a $29 billion turnaround. However, it is not enough mainly because servicing the debt is costing us more and more. However, we have made major decisions since 1984 to show leadership and to deal with the economy. It has not been easy.
The economic renewal agenda that was set out in 1984 has been followed consistently. We have never lost sight of the major goals of deficit reduction, helping those in need and making this country prosper.
The first thing we did was to get rid of the National Energy Program that really devastated us in the west, specifically Alberta but also Saskatchewan and British Columbia. The energy and transportation sectors were deregulated at the insistence of the people who lived in the west, who were paying unfairly. Spending restraints were put in, as was deficit reduction. TTie unemployment insurance program was reformed. Thx reform and free trade initiatives were brought forward. We also initiated
November 20, 1992

NAFTA, which is a trade agreement with the United States and Mexico.
All of these have been on our agenda for eight years. This is the kind of leadership that Canadians want. Canada cannot have strong social policies without a strong economy.
We understand that these go together. They are two sides of the same coin. The best social policy that we can have in this country is to give people the skills and the tools to go out and work and help themselves.
We have to have a population that is healthy, that is confident, that is productive and able to respond to changes, to new opportunities that are happening globally, not just here. Good social policy is not always about new programs, more programs, more money. It is about giving Canadians the tools, the knowledge to get on with the economy and in our society.
We defined our goals and we defined our policies early on in 1984-85. On the economic side we have created new opportunities. We have made regulatory changes. We have made trade arrangements. As I said, we reformed taxes and we have had some good sound fiscal management.
Let me just talk about the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement, the FTA. Everybody on the other side debated against us and fought us.


We were right.


You were wrong. You are absolutely wrong and the figures are there to prove it. We are a trading nation. I would say that 30 per cent of our revenues depend on our exports. We either export or we do not sustain the standard of living that Canadians want. We have to change with the global community in order to move on so we can not only build the better widgets, we can trade them more effectively, more efficiently and we can beat our competitors in the market. That means markets all around the world.
Our exports to the U.S. have increased by $15 billion since we brought in the FTA. That is up 9 per cent. It also translates into 200,000 jobs. The North American free trade agreement which is under debate today,
Supply
known as NAFTA, is to expand upon that and it is to secure our gains and give us even greater opportunities, not just into the United States but into Central America, South America, Australia and New Zealand.
We are going to do tax reform. I recognize that. We did bring in tax reform for greater fairness for the entrepreneurs and business. If we do not have business operating, we do not generate the wealth to support the social services and programs that we want to provide to Canadians.
We brought in the GST, which replaced the old manufacturers' sales tax. It levels the playing field so the manufacturing industries and all industries can meet the competition of our imports.
We privatized 22 Crown corporations. We downsized the government, cutting 46 boards and agencies and we have taken 92,000 people off the government payroll and put them into private enterprise.
Labour market policies have moved to increase the participation so that we all start working together. If labour, provincial governments, federal government, municipal governments, academic or educational institutions, municipalities, do not start working together as partners, instead of fighting one another, we are never going to win.
We have made many changes on the social side. We have made changes to help women and improve the employment equity programs. We have made changes for the disabled and especially those people who have physical problems as well as mental problems.
Canadians know not to throw away more money. Spend money more effectively, more efficiently so the programs can be delivered. The programs have to be examined. Many have been there for 20 or 25 years. Our world has changed. I am not saying throw them out. I am saying let us debate today and look at them.
Let us look at our health care system. We have the best health care system in the world. We have listened to the United States election debates over the past few months. The U.S. is looking at our health care system. It can be improved upon, and perhaps it can be delivered more effectively and more efficiently but that is an ongoing debate.

November 20,1992
Supply
Let us look at our infant mortality. It has declined from 27 deaths per 1,000 to 7.2 deaths today. We have the best record. Life expectancies have climbed not only for the men but for the women as well.
Canadian research is contributing to new cures. We are looking at AIDS. We are looking at cancer, muscular dystrophy, cystic fibrosis and the disabled. We live healthier lives. Canadians are now eating better, they are exercising and they are even taking precautions to avoid sexually transmitted diseases.
On the poverty front we have made progress. Let us take a look. The number of Canadians living below the poverty line has declined by 1 million since 1984. The incidence of poverty among the elderly in the last 20 years has fallen dramatically. More has to be done, and I acknowledge that. We all have to work together to achieve it.
Important steps have been taken to combat violence against women, abuse against children and the elderly. With the four-year, $136 million family violence initiative that we undertook a few years ago, we have awarded about 15 research centres. There is one in Montreal and one through Laval University. There are others through B.C. and Moncton, New Brunswick and western Ontario to look at family violence, home violence and abuse against children.
With regard to my colleague, the minister who looks after the status of women, we have a task force looking at what is going on and why more families are having problems.
How about looking at children at risk? The minister of health and welfare some months ago brought down Brighter Futures, which dedicates $500 million with regard to the prevention, the promotion, the protection of children, working in partnership with all other levels of governments and the various agencies.
We are also looking at our aboriginal colleagues who have many problems, whether we are talking about drugs or alcohol abuse or family violence. There will be funding set aside within this program to help them come to the root of their problems.
We have shown compassion, maybe not enough according to my colleagues across the aisle, but there are children at risk and all of us have to deal with it.
Let us look at the child tax benefit package that will be implemented on January 1, 1993. It combines the family allowances child credit and the refundable child tax credit. It is going to put $2.1 billion more into programs that will assist families. This is an initiative taken by our government.


It did nothing for the poorest.


I am very sorry, you are wrong. This provides extra funding for those at low income.
If you are talking about those on social services and welfare, the provinces set the levels for that. If the federal government is going to increase its tax benefits or its social aid, the provincial governments lower it.
That is not fair. What I am saying is that it is time the province of Ontario started working with the other provinces and with the federal government so we can combat these problems and work together.
I wish I had a lot longer because we have made many inroads with regard to this. We know we are suffering. We know we are suffering from a global recession that has caused problems all around the world.
Let us take a look at this. It is affecting all families, specifically here in Canada in all our communities. It is affecting the industries. This has brought home to us the real truth about globalization and the need to trade and how international competitiveness is really the root of how to resolve some of these problems. Our future prosperity can only be guaranteed by higher productivity. How are we going to get higher productivity in this country?
The Minister for International Trade, through his prosperity report which has been condemned by some of the colleagues sitting over there, went to the people all across Canada. He had over 186 meetings with various Canadians on how to improve our productivity. It has to be labour. It has to be governments and it has to be the people all working together.
Do not continue to fight. Why do we not work together? This is what we have to do to resolve the problem. People have to stress education. We have to stress job training and greater training in order that the labour force can move forward, accept the technology and the scientific advancements and move into the 21st century.
November 20, 1992

Why is there a 30 per cent drop-out rate of students in high schools? That is unacceptable. We put into place programs to keep youngsters in school. One in four in the labour force is illiterate; they cannot read the manuals or operate the machinery they are supposed to run. More has to be done. Our private enterprise is taking on more responsibility but those people out in the business world have to realize, such as Japan has done, that time has to be set aside for continuing education in order to train labour forces working with the educational institutions so that they can upgrade and teach people to go out in the world and be more competitive.
We have education, training, job retraining, trade agreements to make us more prosperous and more competitive. On the social side we are already spending 66 per cent, two-thirds of our expenditures budget. We would like to spend more but the money is not there. What we should be discussing today is how we get the economy back so we can support the social programs that we have.


Madam Speaker, we know today is opposition day and the Liberal motion is to remind us that there is a tradition to have an election every four years.
I am not quite sure what an election would do right now in the sense of changing things. I know the Liberals are thirsting for power. I know the Liberals for a long time have seen themselves at 50 per cent across Canada in the polls. They want to get into the little patronage deals that they can because they have been out of power for some time. I am sure they are going to be very effective at it. I recall when Mr. Trudeau stepped down there was an orgy of patronage and I do not think that Canadian memories are that short. They remember that as well.
Rather than condemn this government for everything and say it has done everything wrong, I would like to put in perspective what it has done because it has not done everything wrong. It has done some things right. I would like to speak on that.
First I tvould like to mention that we have two problems. We have a constitutional problem that we tried to deal with recently and we have a problem in the economic sense. Both of these problems are fairly inter-related. Looking at the constitutional problem, the
Supply
government has taken a good stab at it. The government has tried. It has made some mistakes, but when you take a look at what it has tried to do with administrative agreements with the provinces, that has been a good tradition, both with Quebec and other provinces.
Administrative agreements mean that a province can have special agreements under the Constitution with the federal government, providing a kind of flexible Constitution. The provinces are not all treated the same and some have different needs. For example, on the east coast you may have the need for the UIC to be cognizant of the fact that there is a seasonal work force which is far different in fishing than elsewhere.
In the west you will notice there is accommodation that should be made for allowing western provinces to have the RCMP as their policing force rather than the extra expense of their own policing force.
This is a good trend. The government and governments before should be complimented for having this kind of constitutional approach.
I would also like to make a point as official languages critic about the Official Languages Act. I have been very much concerned about the money we spend for the Official Languages Act in areas where the translation of documents or translation services may not be required and may not be even necessary.
I was very pleased to see the government in the committee that was formed by the Minister of National Defence, I believe, dealing with the armed forces and the translation services and the use of French there, saying essentially we should use common sense. In a case where we had the frigates that were built in eastern Canada for approximately several billion dollars, $100 million was spent just in translation of those details of what the ships contain and their engineering points.


I was wondering if the hon. member remembered that this is question and comments and he was not on debate, as the time is getting short.


I hope to conclude this comment in the next two minutes if I may. I believe it is 10 minutes for questions or comments.


The hon. member has been in the House for quite a few years and the period of question and comments is to be shared between different

November 20, 1992
members and should be about the intervention which has just been heard in the House.
Maybe we should allow the hon. member to make a comment and the hon. member can by all means rise on debate or on questions and comments later on in the day. Four minutes have gone already.


Madam Speaker, I am not too sure of the question but if I could I would like to thank my colleague with regard to the tone of his intervention. What he has done is set the stage with regard to some things we have done right, some things we can do better and maybe some things we have done wrong. We all have to acknowledge that.
What I really like about his comments is that if we do not all start working in the same direction perhaps we will not resolve the issues.
There have been constitutional problems which have faced this country for a number of years but they have been highlighted maybe since 1982. There are great difficulties that we have tried to overcome with regard to the Meech Lake accord, which failed, and with regard to the Charlottetown accord.
Canadians did have the opportunity to vote on that last October 26. To resolve some of those issues, my colleague was talking about administration agreements with the provinces. I think one area that we really have to look at has to deal with the free trade in our country and this would have great progressive advantages to making us more prosperous.
Why should we have 500 trade barriers here costing us $6.5 billion every year, hurting us, when if we all started working together we could all succeed?


After Question Period and Routine Proceedings there will be three minutes of questions and comments, following the hon. member's intervention.
It being eleven o'clock a.m., pursuant to Standing Order 35 the House will now proceed to Statements by Members pursuant to Standing Order 31.


Madam Speaker, all week we have been discussing the government's inability to manage the country, to govern not only the economy but programs for people.
Unfortunately in this debate students have often been forgotten. I need to remind people here assembled today that tuition fees have increased at unprecedented highs. GST on books is still a problem, and next week I will be reintroducing my bill to removed this tax. There is still a 3 per cent administrative fee on student loans, a tax on those who need money most. There will be six months extra interest for students to pay on their loans. There are taxes being paid on scholarships and bursaries.
There is a lamentable job situation. It was particularly bad last summer and it continues to be so. Students cannot earn money to continue their education.
All of this and much more increase student debt and student despair and prevent our young people from becoming employable in the future and contributing as fully as they could to Canada.

4-H CLUBS OF CANADA


Madam Speaker, recently the Government of Canada released Inventing Our Future-An Action Plan for Canada's Prosperity, a plan which emphasizes Canada's need for a strong learning culture.
Operating in our country for many years is an organization which has consistently promoted this same goal. I speak of the 4-H Clubs of Canada.
The 4-H Clubs work with rural young people who learn through club projects to focus on results to make learning continuous, to innovate with new technology and to be dedicated to personal development, community leadership and responsible citizenship.
November 20, 1992

Helping 4-H members acquire a positive attitude toward learning increases their knowledge and develops useful skills to equip our young people for the future.
There are 4-H Clubs across Canada, nine of which are located in my riding of St. Albert. The national 4-H organization is committed to assisting our young people to become confident and capable citizens of tomorrow.
I salute all 4-H Club members, volunteer club leaders and sponsors across this great country of Canada.


Madam Speaker, Quebec's economic development depends on developing its regions, in particular its outlying regions where its main natural resources such as wood and various industrial minerals are found.
The railway lines must be saved and integrated with the basic rail system in Quebec and Canada in the long term.
The Canadian government must maintain passenger transport to Abitibi-Temiscamingue. Crown corporations like Via Rail and CN should look more closely at regional development, by transferring the decision-making centre for our region from Montreal to Senneterre.


Madam Speaker, last night the Prime Minister tried to make a grand announcement about government money for the training of unemployed workers. His announcement at a Tory fund raising dinner in Toronto only reminded us of how terrible the government's record for training has been in Algoma this past year.
Training dollars were cut by 75 per cent, from $2.5 million to only $600,000 this year, even though a thousand workers were laid off at Denison Mines last spring.
Recently 75 training positions were approved to start next year. Then the government cancelled these until
the local community agreed to provide 25 per cent of the training costs.
The government shut down the Denison Labour Adjustment Centre in August and is closing the Community Adjustment Centre next month, even though some 3,400 people have been laid off during the last couple of years.
Shutting down these community adjustment centres is simply shameful. I call on the government to reinstate in 1993 the funding that was provided last year for training and adjustment programs.


I am sorry but the hon. member's time has expired.


Madam Speaker, I wish to commend the Minister of National Health and Welfare for releasing Canada's Food Guide to Healthy Eating. This food guide has a new name, a new look and a new approach to healthy eating.
The food guide is targeted at Canadians four years of age and older and is based on the nutrition recommendations in Canada's Guidelines for Healthy Eating released by Health and Welfare Canada in 1990.
The food guide was developed by conducting consumer research and by consulting with a broad range of stakeholders, including health professionals and their associations, universities, voluntary organizations, the private sector and governments.
For 50 years the food guide has been a popular and widely recognized resource on health eating for Canadians. We should all join Health and Welfare Canada and its partners in bringing the new healthy eating message to Canadians.


Madam Speaker, at what point will the government wake up and intervene to save the Canadian rail system from extinction?

November 20,1992
This week the CPR applied to abandon everything east of Sherbrooke, Quebec. CN is trying to sell five freight lines in Ontario and has struck a deal with Burlington Northern to have 50,000 rail cars go directly from Edmonton to Chicago, eliminating jobs in Winnipeg and other points along Canadian lines. Not so long ago we were protesting CP Rail by-passing Winnipeg with potash shipments. What is next? What is so efficient about the growing marginalization of parts of the Canadian system at the expense of cities like Winnipeg and the people who live and work in such cities?
If we add to this the ongoing Tory conspiracy against Churchill, and the way that Liberal and Toty deregulation has put so many airline jobs at risk in Winnipeg, one wonders just what has to happen before the government wakes up to the fact that there is nothing efficient about destroying the economic base of places like Winnipeg.
Efficiency is for the sake of people. People do not exist for the sake of efficiency.


Madam Speaker, every year in Canada there are more than 5,000 deaths from breast cancer and approximately 15,000 new cases of breast cancer are diagnosed. Breast cancer is the most frequent cancer among women. It is a killer.
This week the Royal Bank of Canada contributed $500,000 to the corporate fund for breast cancer research. I want to applaud its generous donation and to congratulate the Royal Bank on taking the initiative in this matter. I would encourage other corporations to join with the Royal Bank and with all other individual Canadians who want to meet the challenge and conquer this disease.


Madam Speaker, last night the Prime Minister began his election campaign by making new promises on the economy. Just as in 1988, the Conservatives will promise the world but will do nothing to improve the everyday situation.

Canadians have heard this same old song before and they just do not believe the Prime Minister any more.
Four years ago he said that his government would be fiscally responsible, yet our deficit is projected to be $34 billion. He promised adjustment programs for workers displaced by free trade, yet nothing has been put in place and 1.5 million people are out of work.

Canadians have had quite enough of the Prime Minister's promises, and they will let him know that during the next election by electing a party that can keep its promises, the Liberal Party.


Madam Speaker, I would like to thank and congratulate the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Canadian Armed Forces for keeping 3,000 kilograms of cocaine off Canadian streets.
The day before yesterday, in a high altitude drama, two Canadian CF-18s intercepted a drug laden aircraft in Canadian air space. RCMP detachments in Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, joined by Canadian Forces officials, tracked the plane as it flew over New Brunswick.
The suspects fled the aircraft after it landed but were soon rounded up by a thorough search by police and soldiers. The suspects are currently guests of Her Majesty in Trois-Rivieres, Quebec.
On behalf of a grateful nation I want to thank the Canadian Armed Forces and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police for sending a very loud and clear message to foreign drug dealers: "Stay out of Canada".


Madam Speaker, Sam Ifijeka, a Canadian of African origin, this week resigned as a commissioner of the refugee division of the Immigration and Refugee Board, publicly accusing the management of being racist and of pressuring commissioners to reject more and more refugees. He is not the first former commissioner to make such accusations.
*

November 20, 1992

In fact during the past three years while the Canadian government has reduced the number of refugees selected overseas, the refugee division has also been steadily reducing the rate at which it accepts claimants in Canada as refugees.
Five months ago Mr. Ifijeka wrote a 20-page letter to the Prime Minister and the Clerk of the Privy Council detailing his accusations and documenting them. Obviously this government has ignored these concerns. This morning I have delivered a copy of that material to the minister's office.
I now call on the minister in co-operation with the Prime Minister to order immediately an independent and impartial investigation of Mr. Ifijeka's accusations.


Madam Speaker, a large number of Canadian companies find it easier to conduct business with American companies as opposed to those in our own country.
While we have reduced barriers between ourselves and our major trading partners, interprovincial trade barriers still haunt us. This means consumers pay more in higher taxes and higher prices. Business has suffered as well for the same reasons.
The Minister for International Trade will be meeting with his provincial counterparts in a few weeks with the hope of successfully lowering these barriers. If the minister succeeds Canadians will benefit greatly as we will be able to increase business and pass on the savings to the consumer.
Let us hope that success will result from their efforts.


Madam Speaker, last week the Prime Minister disgraced Canada again by refusing to meet with Nobel Peace Prize winner, Rigob-erta Menchu.
Several international leaders, including the Secretary General of the U.N. and the Pope, have shown her the
respect she deserves by speaking with her personally about human rights in her native Guatemala.
Now we learn the government has denied a visa to Mr. Jorge Soto and two academics who are coming to Canada on behalf of an umbrella group currently negotiating a peace accord with the Guatemalan government.
They were to meet with the House of Commons subcommittee on human rights to brief us on the negotiations and to seek advice on the principal point at which the negotiations are stuck, human rights.
Ironically Mr. Soto visited Canada only two years ago at the request of the Canadian government. Why the duplicity? The minister of immigration's office says the decision to deny the men a visa was made at the em