That this House condemns the government for its negligence toward the worst social and economic difficulties faced by residents of Ontario in modern times.
He said: Mr. Speaker, I am delighted to have an opportunity in this House to debate an issue that is of great concern to all residents of the great province of Ontario.
The issues touch on national interests, of course, but the residents of Ontario have particular reasons now to fear for their futures and to question the attempt of the government to manage their economy and their social planning, the infrastructure of the economy. They have very real fears.
In an effort to ensure as full a debate from the Liberal opposition side today in this relatively short day, we will be asking that we split our times.
I want to make reference to the motion itself. It says: That this House condemns the government for its negligence toward the worst social and economic difficulties faced by residents of Ontario in modern times.
Anyone who doubts the seriousness of the economic crisis has only to visit the streets of Toronto, of Sudbury, of Thunder Bay and look at those who are unemployed, who are losing all they have built around them over the last many years of prosperity and to see the fear in their eyes.
As we speak today, we are reviewing the new monthly unemployment statistics. These days, this is a bad news item every month. But Statistics Canada tells us that the unemployment rate in Ontario is 10.9 per cent. It is a double digit figure for the first time in a long, long time.
We are not the only province with double digit unemployment. Ontario has been the engine of the national economy, assisted by all the other regions. The engine of the national economy has now struck double digit unemployment with apparently no end in sight. There is no light at the end of the tunnel because this government is not doing anything. This government is taking the hands-off approach of letting the private sector solve our problems and it is not working.
The unemployment rate in Toronto is 11.2 per cent. Promises over the last few years of jobs, jobs, jobs and sacred trusts are simply not believable any more. There has been a reneging by the Prime Minister on those promises. Ontario, Toronto, and our national economy are paying a very high price.
There are two specific issues I want to address relative to metropolitan Toronto. They relate to the economic and social planning envelopes. One of them is urban crime and the other has to do with federal non-funding of immigration and refugee settlement.
On the urban crime issue, in our metropolitan area in Toronto we are seeing a decaying of neighbourhoods. For the first time, we are seeing what I would call a criminal block-busting of neighbourhoods. The criminal blockbusting relates to the crack house phenomenon. That is the situation where there is no landlord and the criminals and drug pushers move in and take over a house. That brings prostitution, more drug pushers, drug purchasers and petty thieves who want to finance their drug habit to the neighbourhood.
That is decaying and destroying neighbourhoods in which people just like all the members in this House of Commons live in. Ordinary neighbourhoods are falling victims to this criminal block-busting.

June 5, 1992
Supply
Prostitution in Scarborough is up 95 per cent over the last year. That is a doubling of prostitution crimes. Drug offences are up 22 per cent.
These are figures that residents and many neighbourhoods in metropolitan Toronto are struggling to cope with. They look to their elected representatives. They look to government and they see nothing happening. The cancer of the crack house continues to grow. They ask for the government to react, to do something about it.
In the meantime, the government watches while the powers of police to investigate and prosecute are restrained. They look at a Criminal Code that is 100 years old and does not address the phenomenon of the modem crack house. The government is simply not addressing the phenomenon of the urban crack house with either legislation or policies. It has not provided any alternatives.
To put the icing on the cake, there is legislation that permits the seizure of proceeds of crime. Usually those proceeds are seized as a result of drug criminal activity. Even when the municipality bears the cost of the drug investigation, which in many cases in a metropolitan area like Toronto amounts to many millions of dollars, the federal government is not giving back to the metropolitan police the money that was spent to investigate the crime in the first place. That is negligence. That is an abandonment of the federal government's very important role in this area. The government is deaf to the issue of urban crime.
The second area I want to bring to the attention of the House has to do with federal non-funding of refugee and immigrant settlement.
In the one area of refugee settlement, the region of metropolitan Toronto and Peel will spend approximately $430 million in the settlement of refugees. That includes welfare costs. That money comes from the pockets of municipal taxpayers. The federal government has capped its funding of all of this and has not responded to this funding imperative.
If the federal government and federal legislation is going to accommodate the refugees, then it damn well better start funding the settlement initiative. Municipal taxpayers are becoming fed up with having to carry more
than their share of the burden when they do not manage the laws and the borders.


That does not happen in New Brunswick.


Well it happens in southern Ontario.
The other area has to do with the field of education. We have a lot of great new immigrants in this country. They are populating principally our larger cities and we are glad and proud to have them.
A difficulty arises when they come in large numbers to particular municipalities. The school boards are forced to absorb the second language training for these new Canadians. When they come in large numbers it creates significant distortions for school boards.
I have a list of schools here that have anywhere from 43 per cent to 27 per cent of students who must be educated in a second language. English is the second language.
The cost of integrating and adjusting goes on for several years, the school-boards estimate about four years, and the federal government is not assisting. The federal government is happy to have the new immigrants, happy to have the family-class immigrants and the business-investor immigrants and Canadians are too. But the federal government has abandoned to the municipal taxpayers the cost of funding the education integration.
There is a cost because if the costs are not paid, the school itself and the quality of education in the school suffers. The full student body is not able to absorb all of their education training in the English language or in the French language in Quebec or other parts of the country.
This is an abandonment in these areas: urban crime, they are asleep at the switch; and in federal funding of immigrant and refugee settlement, they have abandoned it to municipal taxpayers.
These taxpayers and their elected representatives on a municipal and regional level are very angry. They are waiting, I am waiting, and my constituents are waiting to see what this government is going to put forward as a solution to that ridiculous abandonment in that field.
I will close now and invite this government to address its negligence before it is too late.
June 5, 1992


Mr. Speaker, we have listened to the lead-off speaker today from the Liberal Party, a member from the Scarborough area of metropolitan Toronto. He stood here and talked about a litany of problems we are facing in the province of Ontario, but once again the Liberals have no solutions.
They stand and its more money: maybe we should throw more money at this problem and more money at that problem. They do not say where the money comes from. They do not say we will raise the deficit. They do not say we will borrow more money, we will raise taxes or whatever it may be. They do not say any of those things.
The hon. member talks about the job creation. I can tell him that we have come through a very difficult recession. Of course our unemployment rate is unacceptably high right now. I can tell him that we saw the fastest job creation in the industrialized world between 1984 and 1990 when 1.6 million new jobs were created, of which 1.4 million still exist. We must understand that. It must be understood by the Canadian people that 1.4 million of those jobs still exist. Entrance into the labour market and the unemployment rate because of the recession we have gone through have increased.
He talks about the decaying of neighbourhoods and the drug problem. I remember very well-and I am going to remind him of this because I think it is very important-a speech that the Prime Minister of this country gave. I believe it was in 1987.1 could be wrong. I sat here in the House and listened to the hon. member for Hamilton East. She stood and ridiculed the Prime Minister on his speech. The Prime Minister said that we had a drug problem in this country. He put more money and more effort with the RCMP to fight drugs. The RCMP has been somewhat successful but not successful enough because we have not seen the elimination of the drug problem.
The Liberal Party, led by the hon. member for Hamilton East, tore the Prime Minister apart saying that he was exaggerating, that he was saying things were way out of control, that he should not be talking that way, and that that was not accurate.
Today we see Liberal members stand and all of a sudden express concern about crack houses and about
Supply
drug problems in this country. The Prime Minister warned about this problem and the government did something. The hon. member says it did not. It has done something about it and it is continuing to work on it, in co-operation, I might say, with local police forces and police forces around the world. It is very important.
He talks about immigration and immigration levels. The hon. member should know the system. The system was in place long before we became the government. The government through the Minister of Employment and Immigration would contact the provinces in a consultative mode and ask: "What can you absorb in immigrants each year?" Those recommendations come in and that is how the levels are determined.
The hon. member is saying that it is all the federal government's fault for bringing too many immigrants to this country and not funding them. For heaven's sake, education has always been a responsibility of the provinces. If he is saying that we should start funding elementary and secondary education from the federal government then he should stand and say it.
Is that Liberal policy? Is it Liberal policy to fund elementary and secondary education? If it is then let us have it as a policy and let us see them fight that one out in a constitutional way. I mean the provinces will take the money.


I believe that was a comment but the member has a minute to answer.


Mr. Speaker, that was a long comment with a question wedged in at the end.
I did not say it was the federal government's fault there is immigration to this country. I said it was the federal government's responsibility to ensure that immigrant settlement took place properly.
I am not saying the government should throw money at this. I am saying the government should use its brains, its leadership and its jurisdiction.
The member opposite complains because a member on this side critically challenged an initiative of the government at one point in time. It is our job to challenge critically from time to time, but it is the government's job to exercise leadership. It is the federal government's responsibility to address these things.

June 5, 1992
Supply


Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate the member for Scarborough-Rouge River on his excellent presentation this morning. He outlined some of the key concerns we as Canadians face in metro Toronto and in the province of Ontario. I would also like to take this opportunity to speak to the issue in a more global sense.
In the past two decades major economic changes have forced Canada to confront rapidly shifting international, political and economic relationships. The pressures of the GATT, the free trade agreement, and the structural deterioration of our economy demand that Canadians find innovative solutions to international competition.
Unfortunately Canada stands extraordinarily exposed to the challenges of an increasingly global economy. This federal government has adopted a hands-off approach to economic management, leaving Canada open to the free play of international forces.
The situation is now so serious that commentators are beginning to speak of a window of opportunity within which Canada might still be able to recover control over its economy.
The legacy of this government's mismanagement of the economy is staggering. One and a half million Canadians unemployed, of which 400,000 are young people.
Since 1989 more than 300,000 manufacturing jobs have vanished, many never to return. We have seen record personal and corporate bankruptcies. Taxation levels are higher than ever even as the federal government plans are drawn up to abdicate its responsibilities further. We are paying more for less.
I have spoken in this Chamber before on the need for a new contract, a new set of arrangements among Canadians. The federal government should play a key role in defining the economic and social relationships within our society.
Historically relationships among Canadians have been marked by confrontation instead of co-operation. The consequences of this history is lack of focus on goals and a total absence of a national vision on the part of this government.
The reasons for this are not difficult to uncover. Although this government speaks of creating an innovative economy, its own policies are more appropriate to bygone days. Its thinking is obsolete.
As many studies have shown the federal government does not understand the dimensions of global change. The evidence for this is everywhere. The federal government, committed to cost cutting, is unwavering even as the entire economy crashes to the ground.
To this government numbers matter more than people. They matter more than jobs. They matter more than the future of our youth. They matter more than the sacred trust of health care of our seniors and of those who have fallen out of the work force. In the messages Canadians have sent to this government there is a palpable sense of betrayal and breach of trust.
The implications of this public distress of the federal government are extensive. As elected representatives we need to communicate with the people as opposed to talking at them.
But prospects for success in this regard are grounded in the perceptions Canadians have of governments. This government has confused the reluctance of Canadians to subscribe to Tory policies with an unwillingness of Canadians to act.
Canadians are ready to act. Canadians continue to believe that they are the makers of their own future. This is a powerful asset. This asset provides a solid foundation for presenting Canadians with choices about how to upgrade their schools and how to ensure Canadians have world-class skills and motivation.
Canadians can understand and want to understand what needs to be done. However Canadians have become lost in the maze of conflicting messages sent by this government. What people hear are statements of concern from this government, but these statements are coming precisely at the same time that this government is ignoring those concerns. It is yet another example of this government pulling back from its responsibility.
There is a widely shared consensus among business leaders that action to upgrade the skills of the work force is needed now. It is vital that the knowledge and skills of those already in the work force be kept current and competitive. The rapid pace of scientific and technologi-
June 5, 1992

cal advance is shortening the useful life of knowledge gained through formal education or training.
The requirement for continued learning throughout an individual's working life must be recognized as a binding priority. In this important area this government has reduced its commitment and has clearly been left behind by its competitors.
Priority attention is being paid to developing human resources in Japan, Germany, Mexico, United States, and virtually all our major competitors. In this highly competitive age the economic performance of firms depends more than ever on a well trained work force.
The Liberal Party believes that training is not a cost but an investment. Education is an economic development. If we are to compete successfully with Japan, Germany, Mexico and the United States, federal government policies must encourage appropriate levels and types of vocational development within industry. Government support for training must be more actively focused. However, national industrial training programs are not making a significant contribution toward encouraging the employer sponsored training new technologies demand.
Employees in the most competitive firms increasingly require high flexibility skills which are essentially strong learning abilities, a willingness to change and an ability to work in teams.
But these flexibility skills are meaningless if young people do not stay in school. Over 30 per cent of students drop out before completing high school. Since unemployment affects the youth population in particular, this indicates an urgent need to deal with school drop-out.
I am not advocating that the federal government assume jurisdiction over the provincial responsibility of education, but what I am advocating is that the federal government must assume its own responsibility of its role to foster a Canadian controlled economic base. The role must be strong enough to secure Canada's place on the global stage. This requires the government's full participation.
There is little evidence of government commitment to Canadians today. The gulf between the rich and the poor is steadily widening. Record numbers are on welfare and
Supply
unemployment insurance. Over 700,000 children need food banks. The future for young people in this country is bleak. As tuition fees increase and debt loads mount, many despair at finding work at all.
In my riding of York North the effects of less than full participation by government are pervasive and insidious. Government should be a vehicle of opportunity. Instead the citizens of the greater Toronto area feel victimized by this government's policies. Whole communities are at risk.
According to a study by the York Region Service Needs Committee, youth services have been placed on hold as provincial and municipal governments in turn feel the effects of the government's insensitive fiscal stringency.
Funding for counselling young people has evaporated. Unemployment among youth is increasing steadily as retraining courses and job placement programs are unable to achieve results. And this government believes it is doing enough.
The legacy of this belief is the failure of government incentives to improve sustainably the competitiveness of firms anywhere and everywhere in Canada. The focus should not be whether enough is being spent on training. The focus should be on whether Canadians are getting an efficient and innovative training system that spells results.
Clearly the more high wage good jobs Canada has, the better. Accordingly the most important set of policies this government could bring forward would be those that increase the capacity of innovative firms to expand. This expansion would be assisted most effectively through partnerships among all participants.
People are the key to making our economy work. To compete we must have a pool of Canadians skilled in the emerging technologies. We must have communities that attract and can retain these people. We need people committed to pulling together.
Canadians need to believe that they can make a difference. It remains to this government to show Canadians that it is willing to make a difference.


Mr. Speaker, I certainly appreciate the opportunity to participate in this debate today.

June 5, 1992
Supply
I listened very carefully to my hon. friend's comments. His number one concern seemed to be competition, as well as a well-trained work force and education. I do not believe anybody in this Chamber would argue with that, but I do have a couple of questions.
Over the past few months I have received over 6,000 responses to a survey from the people who live in my riding. Their number one concern is deficit reduction and they want the government to start working on the debt.
With regard to competition, this involves all of us. The hon. member said that people are the key to the issue. It involves not only all levels of government but the agencies, the work force, educational institutions, research and development, and science and technology.
We should be talking to each other with the keen interest of coming out with some resolutions and ideas so that we can move forward together. As we go through the peaks and valleys there is no doubt that Ontario is suffering, but there are other places in Canada that are suffering too.
Competition is the number one priority. We do need a well-educated and well-trained population, but how are we going to go about that?
I chaired the Standing Committee on Industry, Science and Technology and we came forward with a report, I believe in 1988. The government in 1988 was spending just over $5 billion on research and development and science and technology in all federal departments. We also introduced scholarships for science and technology in centres of excellence. That is addressing the problem in one area.
We also made amendments to the UI bill to put money into training for people who were unemployed. I believe the figure is $3 billion or $3.8 billion this year. I think the member is saying that is not enough.
There is only one taxpayer, whether he is paying federal, provincial or municipal taxes. We must deal with raising the funds so that we are able to follow up the resolutions that the hon. member is putting out today. No one is going to disagree that we need a well-educated population. We spend more per capita than other countries with the exception of Sweden. We have to spend more efficiently and effectively.
I would like the member to tell the House exactly who is going to pay, or indeed how we can redirect funding to obtain the goals that he has outlined.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the hon. member for her question. However, it is quite evident that this government speaks a different language than the rest of Canadians.
Canadians need jobs. This government has been abdicating its responsibility towards that duty. If we examine the master plan that the government has presented it does not speak at all to the future. As a matter of fact, a close analysis of the budget would probably show that a very small percentage of the budget is dedicated to areas that speak to the future: namely research and development, education and training for young Canadians.
I personally do not understand how this government plans to lead Canada into the future when Canadians are telling it that we need more commitment to education. They are telling it that if we want to build a high-wage, highly skilled society we need commitments. It cannot simply be words.
The time has come for Canadians to realize, and particularly this government, that we need a new contract, a new set of arrangements between the individual, the community and the government. To that end, I can tell the member opposite that the government's plan is simply not working. Its message is not getting through.
We on this side of the House clearly understand that research and development and education and training are part of our economic development plan. We certainly do not think that we can compete when 30 per cent of our high school students drop out. We know that.
What one must do, as I am sure the member does as a responsible member of Parliament, is do some inner analysis and look within for answers.
This government's policy has failed. The member must admit that. We still have over 400,000 young people who are unemployed. This summer there will be young people who will not be able to continue their education. At the end of the day we must make sure that we give the necessary prerequisites to Canadians.
June 5, 1992


Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to rise and participate in this debate, particularly as the member for the riding of Ontario. The debate is about the province of Ontario and the economic policies of the federal government as they impact on Ontario.
I have listened to two previous speakers from Ontario, one from a riding immediately adjacent to mine and one not too far removed from mine. We are operating in very similar economic environments, and there are some problems.
The member for Scarborough-Rouge River talked about some problems as though they were the problems of the federal government, such as municipal taxes. He said that the tax rates are going up because of the policies of the federal government. I would suggest that municipal taxes go up because provincial or municipal governments increase their spending. That is the reason they go up. When large salary increases are extended to teachers in the school board system, which has nothing to do with the federal government, the money must be found somewhere.
When we have an inflation rate of 1.7 per cent and they hand out salary increases of 6 or 7 per cent they must raise municipal taxes to find the money to do so. We at the federal level have recognized the problem of dealing with salaries. Although it was a very unpopular and very difficult thing to do we were able to accomplish some goals so that in the last budget it was possible not only to avoid tax increases but to have some tax decreases.
When the members opposite from Toronto area ridings complain about municipal taxes I would encourage them to talk to their municipal colleagues, and to put the blame where it belongs.
It is the same for provincial responsibility. Two members from the Liberal Party got up and spoke about the problems of southern Ontario as if those problems had absolutely nothing to do with the fact that Ontario has the highest spending government in Canada. Year over year it increases spending far more than anywhere else in Canada, including places like Alberta.
All I can say is that when we are talking about problems in Ontario in many instances they are directly related to the provincial government.
Supply
The members talk about welfare costs. Yes, there are more people on welfare and I am sorry to hear that. We did not force the provincial government to increase the payout to those receiving welfare over the last two years by 28 per cent. It chose to increase that amount and simply assumed we would write a blank cheque for whatever money it wanted. We did not force it to add all these day care centres on to the schools being built in my riding. It did that and presumed we would write a blank cheque to pay for them.
Those costs are strictly provincial, municipal, and school board responsibilities. To blame them on the federal government, as the two members opposite have done, does a total disservice.
On the other hand, as we in Toronto are impacted by high real estate costs, I did not hear these members say that because of the policies of the federal government we can now get mortgage rates substantially below anything they could ever get in their entire house-buying days, not just in their house-buying days but in mine as well. Mortgage rates are lower.
I come from a constituency that has a lot of new housing under construction. People are either getting their first mortgage or a renewed mortgage and they are all able to get one at a much lower rate than they have ever been able to in the past, unless they happen to be over 50 or 55 years of age and can remember those days when mortgage rates were low and very attractive. We are back down to those levels and there are projections that they may drop even further.
The members talk about the problems young people are facing.
It is funny that the member did not talk at all about the fact that the federal government introduced this 5 per cent down payment policy for Canada Mortgage and Housing. Young people are able to buy housing and take advantage of the very attractive house prices in the Toronto area right now. They can take advantage of very attractive mortgage rates and get into their homes, which is something that I thought the members opposite would say was a good policy.
However, I do not recall hearing them mention that at all. The impact of that housing policy allows for house construction and it creates construction jobs. When people build houses they put things inside those houses

June 5, 1992
Supply
which are manufactured, such as carpeting, appliances, furniture, lighting, electrical equipment and so on.
They have to buy lawn mowers to cut the grass and other products to maintain the place, and certainly most, if not all, of those products are manufactured in Canada. Guess what? That creates manufacturing jobs. Is it working? I would say that it is.
Not only I say that it is. A recent article in The Financial Post says: "Longer work week may signal an upturn. Manufacturing employees spent more hours on the job in March than they did in the same month last year". That is a good sign.
Are we out of the woods? No, but it is a good sign. It is a sign that things are happening the way that they should happen.
Another member spoke about training funds. One of our members from Calgary got up and made some very legitimate points in response to that request for more training funds. However, what was not mentioned in the debate by the member from the Liberal Party is that since 1990 we have tripled the amount of money going into training funds.
Over $3 billion a year is now spent on training. Much of that is for those who are on the unemployment rolls. Much of that is for those who are unable to find jobs because the skills they have do not match the required skill for the jobs that exist. That is a positive step.
Is it enough? We can always say it is not enough, but can the taxpayers afford it? We must understand that in many instances in order to fund unemployment insurance training programs we must increase the deduction for unemployment insurance. Those who are working will therefore have less to spend because of that problem.
It is a fine balance, but I would say that in the last three budgets we have moved the numbers in the right direction, I think very successfully. Is that all we have done? No, not at all.
In this budget we have recognized the problems that Ontario is facing. We have recognized that there is a need to assist the manufacturing sector to make it more competitive. Therefore we introduced a reduction in the
tax that must be paid by manufacturing because we have increased the capital cost allowance.
That is a very direct benefit to the manufacturing industry of Canada, particularly the manufacturing industry of Ontario. If the provincial government has done nothing else right in Ontario over the last year and a half it has been in office, it did follow the lead that we provided on that capital cost allowance. It has also made a similar move in its budget.
About the only good thing in its budget was that move. The net result was that Ontario based manufacturing is better able to invest in new technology and new ideas. Therefore Ontario based industry can be more competitive. That is positive.
Not only did we do that, but we have made it possible for consumers across Canada to have a little bit more money to spend. I do not want anyone to believe that they are going to be able to buy a Rolls Royce with the tax cut that we put in place, but we did put in place a tax cut for all personal taxpayers in Canada. It helps them pay less tax and therefore they have more to spend.
It comes into effect on July 1 and there will be more to follow early next year. Those were very positive steps. We have recognized the need that exists in Ontario and we have very clearly tried to do something about it.
More than that, we have made some very major steps for small business. We have increased small business loans, which means that small businesses can borrow up to $200,000 guaranteed by the federal government to invest in new technology and new capital equipment. We have also put in place additional small business loan programs. All of those programs have been to provide help in a very difficult time in southern Ontario.
This difficult time we are talking about is not all doom and gloom, as the members opposite are saying. We have done a number of other things to assist not just Ontario business but all of Canada. For example, we spent extensive time in a committee chaired by the member for Mississauga South dealing with financial reforms.
We have now changed the method in which financial institutions operate in this country so that all Canadians, particularly business, can access the trust companies, insurance companies, and credit unions. They have a

whole new pool of revenue and funds that they can access. That is a vety positive move for Canada and Ontario, particularly southern Ontario.
We have seen improvements in house sales this year. We have seen a tremendous improvement in the bank rate. I have talked about the bank rate as it applies to mortgages for individual consumers in this country, but it is not just those people who benefit by this improvement. A low bank rate helps businesses in this country borrow money, and borrow it on a much better basis.
I should add that there are some very good things going on in Canada. One of the problems we have in this country is that we do not have the courage of our convictions, and that is certainly evidenced by all those on the other side of the House. I would like to give a few examples.
Free trade was supposed to be a terrible thing, at least according to some of the comments made by those in opposition. Yet we are into the third year of the agreement and in March a headline in one of the local papers stated: "Trade figures surge in March as exports hit a record high". A record high is positive.
If we examine those numbers we find that the percentage of manufacturing exports as a part of that total was larger than ever before. In fact, we had a record trade surplus with the United States and record exports to the United States in March.
I do not know where all the doom and gloom that the members opposite are talking about is. Those numbers are very positive and they are very positive for Ontario. Manufacturing was part of that.
It goes even further. Another headline states: "Economy shows modest growth for third month". Another states: "We are moving in the right direction as hard hit manufacturing perks up". Manufacturing in Ontario is starting to see real benefits from what has been done.
They say there are no good signs, but there are many of them. In the Algoma region an article about a company called Great Lakes said: "Great Lakes enjoys a healthy year". The article says that the company is doing all right.
Supply
There is a company in Cambridge that found that Canadians were not prepared to accept its products. Jane Martin went into the manufacturing business and found she had to export up to two-thirds of her products to the United States in order to make the business grow. She was able to do it. She was able to do it very successfully because she stood by her convictions and said: "There is a way to do it and the way to do it is to get on with the job. If Canadians do not want to get on with the job, I will sell my products somewhere else". She did and it worked and the company is very successful. That is one example.
We heard how the textile industry in Canada would be devastated by the free trade agreement, at least that is what those opposite said. A textile manufacturer in Cambridge, a city in Ontario, said: "I agree with the free trade agreement. I think it will be good for my business". Canadians said: "You're wrong, the textile industry will be decimated". What did he do? The chap's name is George Hancock and he put in place new technology and new manufacturing ideas. Lo and behold 1991 was his best year ever. He has increased his exports. He is now selling in the United States, which he did not do before. Twenty-five per cent of the company's $7 million revenue in 1991 was generated out of exports to the United States.
There are people who are prepared to be very positive, who know how to do it and who are prepared to get off their duff and get it done. That is what we need in this country.
Members may argue that is not constructive. At least that is what the members opposite try to argue. What are the general benefits of this? I happen to have an article from The International Herald Tribune on Monday, May 25. It is a U.S. publication distributed world-wide. Its headline is: "Canada sets an example". It is the editorial. I would like to read one paragraph of the editorial because it says exactly what we in this party and government have been saying.
Both Mr. Mulroney and Mr. Bush are conservatives and both resist raising taxes. Mr. Mulroney has attacked his deficit mostly by curbing spending. Canadians have complained loudly and bitterly but they re-elected him in 1988. He has kept the squeeze on, although he will have to run again next year.
There have been real costs-
-and we have all identified them.

Unemployment is much higher than in the United States but inflation is only half as high. With the end of the recession the chances for a strong recovery are better in Canada than in the United States.
Mr. Mulroney makes jokes about his low popularity ratings. According to opinion polls only 20 per cent of Canadians like him. A politician's popularity is capital and he has spent his capital well on economic benefits that will come to Canada for many years, regardless of who is Prime Minister.
A foreign magazine, a foreign publication is talking about the strength of the Canadian economy and about how we in this country are going to reap benefits for many years to come. I have no doubt about that in the least.
In conclusion, I would like to point out to the members opposite that there are some problems in Ontario. However, I am convinced that the problems have been addressed and the initiatives we have taken will lead us to future economic prosperity. We are starting to see some of that already.


Mr. Speaker, I listened attentively to the member for Ontario. I share the community that he represents.
First, I want to say that he said many things in his speech that I agree with. I do not want Canadians to think that we are all doom and gloomers over here because that is not the case. He spoke of low interest rates and we recognize that fact. He also spoke of low inflation rates and we recognize that fact as well.
We are not elected to this House of Commons just to talk for those who are advantaged or doing well. We are also elected to this Chamber to speak for those in our community who are going through difficult times. In your community, my community-and let us forget the number 11.2 per cent because it is a misleading number-right now we have over a half million people not working in the greater Toronto region and area.
In this House it is our responsibility to try to find work for them. The comment saying: "Let us not give a blank cheque to those who are on welfare" might have been a bit cruel. I do not think anyone was suggesting that we give a blank cheque to anyone.
There are a lot of Canadians who understand and realize that there are abuses in the welfare system and abuses in the unemployment insurance system. None of us would support ignoring those abuses. What people are crying for-


I regret to interrupt the hon. member. It being eleven o'clock I must go to statements. The hon. member will have an opportunity after Question Period.
It being eleven o'clock, pursuant to Standing Order 30(5) the House will now proceed to Statements by Members pursuant to Standing Order 31.


Mr. Speaker, in October 1990, roughly 20 months ago, the Prime Minister and then Minister of Finance promised at that particular time a review of the goods and services tax on books and reading materials.
It is now time for that particular review to take place.
Most Canadians would realize and acknowledge that the goods and services tax on books has reduced reading in Canada and has driven Canadians to shop for books and magazines outside Canada. It has also harmed our writers, our publishers, our book stores and our libraries. It has also affected students in a very negative kind of way.
Continuing this tax will reduce our literacy, our competitiveness, our productivity and our prosperity. It has also contributed to a loss of jobs. This has been documented.
The GST is a tax on literacy. It is a tax on knowledge. It is a tax on learning.
The Economic Council of Canada has pointed out that there will be another one million illiterate Canadians, functionally illiterate Canadians, out there in the work force by the year 2000.


I regret the hon. member's time has expired.


Mr. Speaker, when the announcement was made earlier this year that the General Motors foundry in St. Catharines would close in 1995, the city council reacted by calling on the federal
June 5, 1992

and provincial governments to establish a program to encourage our citizens to buy products domestically.
I am glad to say that the federal government has responded to this resolution and has listened to similar suggestions made during the Community Thlks meetings across the country.
Last month the government launched the "Canada- Buy Into It" program. It is a campaign designed to ask Canadians to take a fresh look at the quality and range of products we produce in Canada.
This is an important initiative. Our manufacturers are responding to competitive pressures to improve the quality of their products, and this program highlights that fact.
I am confident that this initiative will be very helpful in promoting the idea of supporting wherever possible the businesses of neighbours and friends.


Mr. Speaker, on April 3 a prominent human rights activist, Ajit Singh Bains, was arrested in India.
This retired judge and current chairperson of the Punjab Human Rights Organization has been thrown in prison and denied the right to a full and legitimate trial under the rule of law.
Further, the police confiscated valuable documents relating to his human rights work.
This incident has summoned condemnation from the international community. Prior to his arrest three Canadian members of Parliament from all three parties met with Mr. Bains in January in India. It is an insult to this Canadian Parliament that this man was then arrested.
The World Sikh Organization's genuine concern for the human rights of all peoples cannot be ignored. The carnage continues in the Punjab, in China and in many other areas of the world.
I urge the Secretary of State for External Affairs to voice Canada's disapproval in the strongest possible terms to the Indian government about the continuing
violations of human rights and to call for the immediate release-


The hon. member for Don Valley East.


Mr. Speaker, most jobs are created by small business but most small businesses cannot get bank loans.
If we really want the banks, the trust companies or the life insurance companies for that matter, to provide small businesses with lines of credit and loans for inventory rather than just fully secured asset loans then the government must be prepared to lead by example.
Unfortunately the lending policies of the Federal Business Development Bank are exactly the same as those presently employed by the chartered banks.
We cannot expect the banks, the trust companies or the life insurance companies to lend to small business if the government's own lender of last resort, the Federal Business Development Bank, will not.
At present the FBDB's aid to small business seems to be based on the theory that if we hold their head under water long enough they will develop better lung control.


Mr. Speaker, this year marks the 50th anniversary of the Dieppe raid on August 19,1942. In April I was honoured to be among those who visited the Canadian cemetery at Dieppe while in France for the 75th anniversary of Vimy Ridge.
Today I would encourage the government to consider the following request made by the Dieppe veterans.
First, the commemorative stamp for the 50th anniversary should be issued prior to August 19 rather than in November as now planned.
Second, POW veterans from Dieppe should be made eligible for the veterans independence program.
Third, post-traumatic stress disorder should be recognized as a pensionable disability.

And last but not least, Dieppe veterans should finally receive an appropriate medal for their part in the raid.
Meeting these requests would be a fine way to mark the 50th anniversary of this tragic chapter in Canadian history.


Mr. Speaker, world leaders are meeting in Rio de Janeiro to discuss our global environment. The nations of the world must work together to preserve and protect our global heritage: the environment.

The government should do everything in its power to lead by example on issues such as biodiversity and global warming. We must help companies develop new technologies that will take pollution out of the production process.
Canada must take this opportunity at the world summit to be a global leader. The government must urge all nations to fight stratospheric ozone depletion, pollution of our oceans and global deforestation. It is our common heritage and we must protect it.


Mr. Speaker, World Environment Day is an opportunity for us to demonstrate our determination to preserve our environment. We expressed that determination in Canada's green plan, to which all Canadians contributed. Published in December 1990, the green plan is our action plan for meeting the challenges of sustainable development.
More than ever before in our history, we are focusing our attention and efforts on the environment. We know that our economic prosperity depends on a healthy environment. We know too that our success depends on working together, here in Canada and with the other nations of this world.
While our country is celebrating Canadian Environment Week, more than 150 heads of state are meeting in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, also known as the earth summit. This conference will be a major step toward achieving our common objective to make sustainable development a reality for this generation and generations to come.


Mr. Speaker, I want the House to hear about a young constituent of mine, 17-year old Nick Iozzo, who has just learned a lesson about the Mulroney government.
Last winter Nick saw an ad for a summer job with the Department of National Defence to get musical and military training in the reserves. He is a musician and he wants a career in music so this was right up his alley.
He applied for the job. Lengthy auditions were held, and he and 34 other youngsters were hired for this job. He and his family were very happy and he assumed he would be doing it for the summer.
However, a few days before he was supposed to report for work he was telephoned and told the job was cancelled because of Department of National Defence budget cuts.
Nick wrote to me and asked me to help him now that it is too late to get another job. He wonders how anyone can trust this government, and frankly so do I.


Mr. Speaker, in April I sent a survey to the constituents of Calgary Southwest asking them for their views and their concerns, and to rate in order of priority the most important issues.
I want to thank the 6,000 plus people who took the time to return the survey. Eliminating the deficit is the number one issue. Close behind the people of Calgary Southwest believe both health and education must be a majority for all levels of government.
June 5, 1992

Property rights should be entrenched in the Constitution. The Senate must be reformed. Elected, yes, many want an equal number of senators from each province but abolition has strong support.
One constituent said:
I fully support free trade, GST, deficit reduction, and economic
restructuring but you had better frame this card because I doubt you
will get many like it.


Mr. Speaker, this week Canadians learned about the existence of a Tory family caucus which has taken credit for the influencing of the many negative cabinet decisions on policies affecting families.
The reality for families today is that in the 1950s it took an average of 45 hours a week of paid work to support a family. Now it takes an average of 65 to 80 hours. Today two-parent families make up the largest group of families living in poverty. Poverty rates among two-parent families would more than double without the incomes of wives.
New Democrats know that Canadians want a government not rooted in the past but one which will recognize and accept the transition families are going through and seek to provide policies which address the new roles of families; a government which is committed to full employment and which provides training and other necessary support programs; a government committed to improving access to non-profit, universal, quality, affordable child care.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to draw the attention of the House to th