Mr. Speaker, I welcome the announcement by the Minister of Veterans Affairs that veterans now living at the Rideau Veterans Home in Ottawa will be moving into new premises late next year.
The Rideau Veterans Home has been of great service to veterans in the national capital area but as can be expected of a facility built at the end of the Second World War, it is past its best.
Our government has been going all out to reach agreement with the provinces and increase the number of beds available to veterans across the country.
Last Thursday's announcement is another step in the right direction. The agreement with the province of Ontario means veterans will have access to 250 beds in the Perley Rideau Veterans Health Centre.


Mr. Speaker, during the past several days the world and Canadians have watched in horror as unarmed demonstrators in Thailand have been shot down in cold blood by the Thai military.
In February last year the democratically elected government in Thailand was overthrown. A new undemocratic constitution came into force. In March of this year
the elections which took place resulted in the appointment of the chief of the armed forces as prime minister of Thailand.
Shortly before those elections the very respected opposition party leader Chamlong Srimuang stated that going against the will of the people could cause them to resist and this will turn into an uprising. The soldiers must understand if they do this they will have confrontation.
As a Canadian I have to ask: Where was our government? Why has our government increased the level of bilateral aid, direct government to government aid from Canada to Thailand? Why have we not announced an arms embargo on Thailand? Why is it that the Canadian foreign minister has said that Canada supports the movement toward increased democratization of Thailand?


Mr. Speaker, I want to take this opportunity to express my support for Bill C-78, the omnibus bill tabled by the minister responsible for the status of the disabled. I would be very pleased to see the provisions of this bill implemented, since this legislation is one more step toward eliminating the barriers that prevent the disabled from becoming full-fledged members of our society.
The bill, and related policies and regulations were prepared in consultation with the disabled. With the Secretary of State and many of those who worked on this bill, I am convinced that the proposed amendments will enhance the well-being of 3.3 million disabled Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, this omnibus bill is tangible proof that the Government of Canada intends to pursue its policies for the the disabled, with their co-operation.

May 20, 1992


Mr. Speaker, graduation time is upon us and I would like to take this opportunity to commend the laudable actions of many students across Canada for their participation in the Safe Grad program.
This year, students throughout the country, including Manitoba, will once again take part in the Safe Grad programs. Safe Grad combines students' graduation celebrations with realistic measures to prevent accidents and other problems which could be associated with drinking and driving.
The aim of the program is to enable graduates to have their graduation parties but to ensure others look after their transportation afterward. Safe Grad is a student run program with much assistance from parents, teachers and police too. Safe Grad is geared toward the needs and wishes of individual schools and their students.
I am most impressed with the students of our country and their support of Safe Grad. I would like to take this opportunity to commend them for their actions.
On behalf of this House and my colleagues I wish all students a happy and safe graduation.

Have fun, but take care.


The medical profession in my home province of British Columbia is being blind-sided by two pieces of provincial legislation brought down by the NDP government. Bills C-13 and C-14 attempt to cap the earnings of and eliminate the pension contributions for physicians in B.C.
This unilateral action by the government threatens to limit the access of British Columbians to quality health care, alienates the medical profession, creates longer waiting lists and forces doctors out of B.C.
It is obviously unjust to require specialists such as a radiologist who purchases high tech, high-priced equipment for one's practice to come under the same earning limits as the low overhead physician.
The province has not consulted with the BCMA and refuses to negotiate a more equitable settlement even now. This unilateral action jeopardizes the historically co-operative relationship between the medical profession and the government.
I call on the federal government to take whatever action is necessary under the Canada Health Act to force the B.C. government to resume meaningful negotiations with the doctors of British Columbia.


Mr. Speaker, on April 23,1 wrote to the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans urging the federal government to maintain the Department of Fisheries and Oceans' laboratory in Charlottetown in its current state.
I am disappointed that the minister continues to hold fast to the plan to phase out the bacteriological portion of the Charlottetown facility.
Producers have relied upon regular monitoring of shellfish to ensure that the environmental conditions have not adversely affected their product. According to some industry members, the proposed change could make some operators less inclined to monitor their products as strictly.
The reduced testing could jeopardize the industry if a bad lot makes it through the system. In addition, this type of testing demands stringent and complex handling procedures. One mishandled sample could cost a producer thousands of dollars in lost product.
Therefore, I renew my call to maintain the DFO lab in Charlottetown in its present state.


Mr. Speaker, on May 1 this year, it was my privilege to attend the launching of a national Active Living pilot project in
May 20, 1992

Dieppe, New Brunswick. Active Living is a new philosophy of life which stresses the integration of all kinds of physical activity into our daily lives.
The pilot project in Dieppe is one of five projects across Canada being used to test this new concept. The federal government is pleased to have been able to contribute to this initiative, especially since the municipality is celebrating its 40th anniversary this year. Since Canada is celebrating its 125th birthday, we have another reason to applaud this stimulating and laudable initiative.
On behalf of the Minister of State for Youth and on my own behalf as well, I encourage members of this House to emulate the positive approach to Active Living shown in Dieppe today in their own communities.


Mr. Speaker, on April 3, prominent human rights activist, Ajit Singh Bains, a retired judge and current chairperson of the Punjab Human Rights Organization, was arrested in India.
To the surprise of his relatives living in metro Toronto, the 71-year old justice has been thrown in prison and denied the right to a full and legitimate trial under the rule of law.
In addition, more than 300 police personnel took over his residence and, without any warrants, entered and confiscated documents relating to the human rights organization he heads.
The manner in which Justice Bains was arrested, the forced entry into his home, and the lack of any due legal process has evoked condemnation around the world.
I urge our government to voice Canada's strongest disapproval of the violation of Mr. Bains' fundamental human rights. I urge our Secretary of State for External Affairs to communicate this dissatisfaction immediately in the most forceful and concise terms to her counterpart in the Indian government.


Mr. Speaker, a few minutes ago, the Prime Minister and the President of the United States held a news conference in Washington. The Prime Minister has travelled to the U.S. to deal first-hand wi th some of the trade irritants which have arisen out of the latest round of American protectionism.
Right now, a lot of Canadians are wondering about the future of free trade, given the disputes over softwood lumber, Honda cars, and so on. So it was reassuring to hear President Bush a few moments ago say that since the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement was signed in 1988, the trade between the two countries has grown by over $30 billion. That is thirty thousand million dollars of additional trade since free trade and that translates into more jobs on both sides of the border. Those are the facts.
The economic recession which has bedevilled both countries would likely have been a lot deeper if it had not been for those $30 billion.
Of course problems remain. The trade deal can be improved. Americans' attitudes can be improved. If there is one person who can do it, he is in Washington today.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak of a grave situation that has arisen in my riding, one that could affect elected representatives across this country.
MacMillan Bloedel, the forestry megacompany with a virtual stranglehold on my home province of B.C., has launched a lawsuit against the elected local representatives of Galiano Island, among others.
These island trustees, in fulfilling their responsibilities toward their electorate, passed a ruling on land use that MacMillan Bloedel did not like. It was simply that: MacMillan Bloedel did not like it. Hence, it is suing the island's trustees personally.
I trust even my colleagues in this House who condone the appalling rapid destruction of the remaining old

May 20, 1992
growth forests in Canada would agree that this is an unacceptable price to pay while fulfilling one's role as an elected representative.
I plan to do everything in my power to ensure that Canadians hear and understand the ramifications of this suit, an American invention called the Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation, or SLAPP. With this kind of threat, megacompanies could ensure that no elected representatives feel free to do the job they were elected to do, namely, representing the voters who elected them who have the unassailable right to do local planning and decision-making.
This is a threat to the very basis of our democratic system. It is a threat I hope the members of this House and all elected representatives in Canada will resist to the utmost of their ability.


Mr. Speaker, the Minister Responsible for Constitutional Affairs has warned that the silence of concerned Canadians could threaten our future.
That future affects us all, but it belongs to the youth and I find it encouraging to know that there are young people in Canada who are not going to sit back silently and allow the forces of negativism to destroy their nation.
The city of Red Deer has more French immersion students per capita than any other English-speaking city in Canada. Last week, 33 of these students from Central School in Red Deer were here in Ottawa. They were en route home following a visit to Cap de la Madeleine where they delivered a message of national unity to the mayor and people of Red Deer's twin city in Quebec.
We met briefly with the Prime Minister where they were able to share the same message they had taken to the mayor of Cap de la Madeleine. Their message was straightforward. They want their country united and their Canada includes Quebec.
I commend these students and their teachers. We have some serious constitutional challenges, but we will
succeed because of people like them and the fact that they are willing to take a stand.


Mr. Speaker, on the night of September 29, 1991, the army in Haiti staged a bloody coup d'etat, ending the democratic process begun with the election of Father Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Since then, the Haitian nation has lived in terror. On February 23, 1992, a memorandum of agreement was signed by President Aristide and the Speakers of the two Houses of the Haitian Parliament. Unfortunately, because the army controls the government now in place, the agreement was never discussed in that Parliament.
I believe that it is important for the Canadian government to demand the restoration of the constitutional system and to encourage democratic countries to respect the OAS embargo.


Mr. Speaker, Canadian business is suffering from excessive government regulations that are costly and burdensome for management and undermine our global competitiveness.
This was a message of a recent survey completed by the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the chamber stated that its members believed they were being tramped on by our regulatoiy processes which are driving up the costs of conducting business in Canada.
Three out of ten responses indicated they had experienced negative effects from the lack of harmonization or duplication of regulations. Thirty per cent of respondents said they had run into duplication in payments to governments. The most frequently sighted overlap was in the tax system. Clearly the lunacy of maintaining two separate sales tax systems creates a heavy compliance burden as does the frequent conflict between federal and provincial regulations.
May 20, 1992

The message is clear. Governments at both the federal and provincial levels have to put aside entrenched considerations and work toward creating an environment that will foster, not hinder, economic growth in this country.


Mr. Speaker, negotiations on the international treaty to slow down the loss of plant and animal species have been gutted by the United States this week.
Biologists have warned that unless international action is taken to curb the destruction of species and their habitat, a mass extinction will occur over the next few decades.
Despite the awesome warnings of the best informed scientists on earth, the Bush administration believes that protecting wild plants and animals would interfere with the profits of private companies involved in the manipulation and patenting of life forms.
There should no longer be any illusions about the role of politically powerful vested interests in relation to the key conventions for the earth summit. They are hellbent on destroying international consensus and co-operation. They stand for profits ahead of survival, for business as usual ahead of sustainable development, for their imperial control over the planet's living resources.
This is a call to all thinking people to get involved and pay attention to the earth summit. Twenty thousand species will become extinct this year. If we fail on biodiversity we will soon be one of the listed statistics of extinction.
Canada has been silent on the attempted U.S. murder of the biodiversity convention and for this we stand shamed before the world.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Deputy Prime Minister.
Oral Questions
The Westray coal mine was made possible and was only possible because of the $85 million in federal loan guarantees and over $8 million in interest buy-downs. It also received close to $700,000 in research and development moneys from supply and services.
I want to ask the Deputy Prime Minister if he will provide the House of Commons and thereby the general public copies of the agreements which have been consummated between the Government of Canada and Mr. Frame as well as the memorandum of understanding signed by the Government of Canada and the Minister of Supply and Services.


Mr. Speaker, if I may I would like to express my condolences regarding this terrible accident. I would, with the hon. member having just posed the question, extend my deep thanks to the draggermen from Devco. There were six teams from the hon. member's riding who were there to help, together with very brave draggermen from Westray as well who did all they could to help mitigate the severity of this terrible tragedy.
As to his question, the hon. member is right. The federal government provided assistance, principally in the form of a loan guarantee of 85 per cent of the $100 million term loan connected with this project.
That was the federal government's involvement. What we will do, of course, is bring forward all the appropriate information as soon as possible, and this we are preparing. There are thousands of pages of documents relevant to this question. The government is preparing those and will bring them forward shortly.


Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hon. minister for his kind comments with regard to those draggermen who worked to try to expedite, if you will, a rescue.
But I want to say to the minister, through you, Mr. Speaker, that more than a week ago I had written a letter to the government House leader requesting co-operation with regard to securing and obtaining the necessary documents which would shed light on this particular incident.
I ask the minister again if he is prepared today to table in this House copies of an agreement which provided a contractor the amount of $85 million in loan guarantees, interest buy-downs in excess of $8 million, research and

May 20, 1992
Oral Questions
development moneys in excess of $700,000. Will he provide those documents, those agreements, and that memorandum of understanding?


Mr. Speaker, I do not know whether the hon. member knows this, but there are, I think, three or four requests now under access to information for information of that sort. We are readying those documents to comply with that request.


Mr. Speaker, this is the House of Commons. This is where the government is accountable for the expenditures that it makes on behalf of the people of Canada.


Hear, hear.


I want to remind the House that a senior member of this House, a senior minister, said the following: "A member of Parliament I submit has a right and a duty to pursue investigations and ask questions on behalf of his constituents and the general public and any interference or obstructions in this respect must be undertaken very carefully and supported by citations and precedents of the greatest weight and substance".
This statement was made by the hon. member for Central Nova, the Minister of Public Works.
I ask the minister again, will he now table in the House of Commons the agreement which was consummated with Mr. Frame as well as the copy of the memorandum of understanding?


Mr. Speaker, among the documents which are being brought forward there are thousands of pages and many hours of cataloguing to be done. We hope to get this out as soon as possible.
In there is included, of course, the agreement between the Bank of Nova Scotia, Mr. Frame of the Westray mine. Under this loan, the Bank of Nova Scotia was guaranteed 85 per cent by the federal government. As a result of that we had to comply, as would be expected, with the regime put in place by the Government of Nova Scotia for safety and for health in the mine. The loan by the Bank of Nova Scotia could not flow unless there was
that compliance. We could not put our guarantee in place unless there was compliance with the health and safety requirements of the two departments which were going to administer it for the Government of Nova Scotia.
That particular reality was there. We are very pleased that these documents are coming together very quickly. I hope that we will be able to get them before the public shortly.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the same minister.
When Suncor, the previous owner of the leases, decided in 1987 that it wanted to sell these leases and sell them in a hurry, it was not only Curragh Resources that was interested. Esso Resources was also interested. In fact, it did not want millions of dollars as Curragh did. It just wanted six months to be able to study the whole project, the geography and the topography involved.
Other than the fact that there was an election coming up, why would the government not wait to allow Esso Resources to complete its study? Why was the government in such a hurry before it gave millions of dollars to Curragh Resources?


Mr. Speaker, in fact this is quite a myth. The over-all project took over three years to put together and to hammer out. There are thousands of pages of contractual agreements that had to be put in place between the principals, the banks and the various governments and also to make sure that all health and safety requirements were complied with.
Three years is not rushing a project into completion. It was quite a lengthy process.


Mr. Speaker, it seems the government had plenty of time to read the reports of the Bank of Montreal, the lawyers and the consultants involved but it did not take any time to read the reports of Suncor and Esso Resources.
Why did the government not read these reports? If it did read these reports, surely it must have seen the dangers involved. Will the government admit that it did not adhere to these reports and will it make these reports public?
May 20, 1992


Mr. Speaker, my hon. friend knows a judicial inquiry has been established. Nova Scotia will inquire into those matters.
Let me respond from the federal government's point of view. The particular studies done by various groups which have looked at this are well known to our government. The concerns we had originally with West-ray were basically business and economic. Originally the safety concerns had to be answered through the province putting in place a very strict regime. It is that regime which is going to be inquired into by the judicial inquiry. That regime was the responsibility of the province. In fact, that regime was being complied with regularly in all its particulars by the mine and confirmed by the Bank of Nova Scotia which regularly monitored it month by month through independent mining consultants.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Deputy Prime Minister and is on the same subject.
It is clear that there were a number of studies done on the Westray mine site to which the federal government was privy. One of those studies, for example, states and I quote: "As a result of such difficulties it seems"-referring to the Westray mine site-"have given off large volumes of gas and proven extremely liable to spontaneous combustion".
I understand that the government's role was, as the minister has just said, in one sense economic and business, but surely the federal government also has a role when it sees these reports to make some response to this and perhaps to receive some assurances from the company that these safety concerns will be addressed before loan guarantees are given.
Can the minister, given the concerns raised in these reports, tell the House what actions were asked of the company regarding these safety concerns before loan guarantees were agreed to?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is rightly pointing out where the regulatory authority lay in this particular case, which was the province. She is asking whether we received assurances that the mine was complying with the regulatory regime put in place by the province.
Oral Questions
We did better than that. In fact, the Bank of Nova Scotia would not give the loan unless it assured itself in every particular, with certifications at each step, that the safety regime was being complied with in its entirety. Otherwise its $100 million would be at risk. We, guaranteeing 85 per cent of that loan, also undertook the same due diligence to make sure that in every particular we had certification that the health and safety requirements as laid down by the province of Nova Scotia were being followed.
All of this was done, was followed, and we still had the tragedy. I have to remind my hon. friend, the leader of the NDP, of what Gerry Finfinger, head of Research and Ground and Methane Controls at the U.S. Bureau of Mines said: "In general we should be able to produce coal from an underground coal seam, no matter how gassy the coal seam is, without an explosion. It is very doable and it is done around the world every day. Part of the hazards of so many mines around the world is methane".
That is why there is a strict regime put in place. Unfortunately, in this case something happened, but it was not a failure on the part of the federal government or the Bank of Nova Scotia to comply with the regulations.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary. I would like to say to the minister that no one is accusing anyone of anything. I am simply asking the minister if he can assure this House and, therefore, table with this House how exactly the federal government, not the Bank of Nova Scotia, ensured that the safety concerns would be addressed. The minister has said he was assured of it. I am simply asking that he table with this House how his government arrived at those conclusions and on the basis of what information and will he table that information and how those conclusions were arrived at?


Mr. Speaker, it is very important that all the relevant information be put before this House and be made public. That is what the government is assembling, cataloguing, cross referencing so members can understand it and get the answers to the questions they are asking.
In this particular instance, the nature of the contract will be in the public domain. She will be able to see what the contract says. The monthly compliance with the regulations was not only adhered to but certified by the

May 20, 1992
Oral Questions
independent mining engineers on behalf of the Bank of Nova Scotia. That too, I am sure, will be made available.


A final supplementary. As the minister mentioned, the Government of Nova Scotia is going to hold a full inquiry into this disaster. I would like to ask the minister if, on behalf of his government, he is prepared to give assurances in this House that his government will fully co-operate with that inquiry if asked, allow witnesses to be there, if asked, and to table all of the documents with that inquiry if asked. Is the federal government, in other words, prepared to be open with this House and also act as a full participant when requested in the inquiry in Nova Scotia so that everyone can know the full facts and have the full benefit of the information that the federal government has as well as any provincial authorities.


Of course the government will, Mr. Speaker,


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Deputy Prime Minister and it is on the same subject matter.
On May 12 the minister of energy said: "We the cabinet were all aware of the mine having high methane deposits and with the new technology that there would have to be a learning curve."
I ask the Deputy Prime Minister if the cabinet's discussions on the so-called learning curve included the real possibility of spontaneous combustion and explosion in the Foord seam and, if so, how they possibly could have funded this project?


Mr. Speaker, the government was aware, and every government everywhere I would hope is aware, that coal mining is a dangerous undertaking. In this area, all of Nova Scotia's coal mines, including Cape Breton and the mainland and so on, have had their share of problems in the past. They have all had problems with
methane and they have virtually all had problems with methane explosions.
It was our job to make sure that when we gave the government loan insurance, we gave the government a guarantee that Curragh was in full compliance with provincial regulatory standards on health and safety and indeed they were.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary is again for the Deputy Prime Minister.
The minister of energy indicated that officials of the department of industry expressed serious concerns about methane at the Westray project. Given the fact that the Foord seam has a history of fatal explosions that has cost the lives of 264 miners, what was the reason and what was the compelling information that the government had that led it to ignore its own department, to ignore history and fund this project?


Mr. Speaker, if we take ourselves back to the period when this was all being assessed, the primary questions being asked publicly within the legislature and here in Ottawa by those analysing it, were primarily business and economic questions. There were a few safety questions but they occurred very infrequently. As a matter of fact, Teresa MacNeil of the Devco board said that her memory was that the questions being discussed were questions of economics, not safety. To quote her: "We would all like to think today that we were all preaching safety. Safety was a factor but it was mentioned very infrequently."
In fact, even though that was the case, we put in place steps to make sure that the regime set down by the province for health and safety were complied with in every particular by the company and that it was monitored by independent mining consultants on a regular basis.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Deputy Prime Minister.
In a project overview by Westray in January 1990 the section on mining calls the risk of spontaneous combustion not clearly defined.
My question is for the Deputy Prime Minister. Did the government, in assessing the decision to fund the West-
May 20, 1992

ray project, accept Westray's evaluation of the risks of spontaneous combustion as not clearly defined, or did it seek an independent evaluation of these risks before deciding to fund this project? If so, will the minister make this assessment public?


Mr. Speaker, can you imagine a bank putting forward $100 million and not taking any interest at all in whether the whole future of the mine could be put into doubt by a spontaneous explosion?
Therefore, due diligence and very careful research would have to be done to make sure that the methane problems that exist in almost all mines were being properly regulated and that in fact is ensured by provincial authorities.
The provincial authorities have their health and safety regulations. Those had to be complied with. The Bank of Nova Scotia made sure they were complied with. Of course we, giving a guarantee for a portion of that loan, also made sure on a regular basis, through independent mining consultants, that those regulations were being complied with.


Mr. Speaker, in point of fact the risks of spontaneous combustion were clearly defined and well known to the government before its decision to fund the Westray project. On December 7,1987 the government's own Crown corporation, Devco, warned in a memorandum that the Foord seam gives off large volumes of gas and has proven to be extremely liable to spontaneous combustion.
In the face of this clear warning, why did the government choose to provide $85 million in loan guarantees to the Westray project?


Mr. Speaker, the truth is this. The Devco mine in Glace Bay, for example, not far from the hon. member's riding, has methane gas problems too. It had a tragedy in 1979. These things happen. It does not mean that you do not go ahead and see, under a proper regulatory environment that is constantly being monitored by independent mining consultants, that you do not make the investment.
This is what in fact happened. The investment went ahead. It was carefully monitored and accidents still happened. The judicial inquiry in Nova Scotia will help us to uncover that.
Oral Questions
In so far as the hon. member is saying that methane gas problems do not exist in all mines, he knows that is not true. They exist in most mines. We have to make sure that the regulatory system put in place is complied with. We assured ourselves of that. How the accident occurred now will be the subject of that provincial inquiry.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources or the other minister that is answering for the government regarding the Westray disaster.
I want to state as a preface that I recognize the appropriate jurisdiction in matters of safety and health and so does my party.
However, considering the government's major investment, both financial and in terms of the government's credibility, which the government made in Curragh Resources, especially considering the Prime Minister's and other ministers' unusually active intervention in support of the Westray proposal, did the minister or his or other officials of the federal government directly or indirectly conduct any ongoing surveillance of safety conditions and operations at the Westray mine or was this treated in the same way as any other industrial operation?


Mr. Speaker, I may have misunderstood the question. Did he say did members of Parliament or members of cabinet do the surveillance? This has to be done by experts, by independent mining experts.
In this particular contract, the Bank of Nova Scotia, wanting to protect its investment, made sure this was done on a monthly basis. It was done and we also ensured that it would be done because our guarantee was there.


Mr. Speaker, I must say with all respect that the answer was a little picky. There is more than one way of conducting surveillance. One is to be in some close touch with provincial authorities whose job it is to investigate ongoing safety operations in the operation.
Did the federal Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources or other officials of the government undertake any ongoing contact or surveillance-never mind the exact term-with the appropriate provincial officials or with the provincial government to ensure that appropriate safety measures were being taken at this operation,

May 20, 1992
Oral Questions
in light of this government's unusually active involvement in promoting this specific promoter?


Mr. Speaker, we of course relied on the surveillance primarily carried out by the independent mining consultants. I will try to find out if more surveillance was put in place besides that.
The hon. member is asking if there were members of Parliament, parliamentarians-


No, no.


-parliamentarians from that region who supported this project. The answer of course is yes. There was a regional economic development need in that part of Nova Scotia.
There were mayors, there were city councillors, there were all sorts of public leaders who very much supported this investment. This is not unnatural. This government supports regional economic development and just dozens and dozens of public people in that region supported this investment.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Prime Minister, my question is for the Deputy Prime Minister.
Since the Prime Minister is in Washington today-I hope that it is not just to report to head office-in his absence, I would like the Deputy Prime Minister to tell me whether the Prime Minister told the President of the United States during lunch that the great majority of Canadians want to renegotiate the free trade agreement, or was he satisfied just with crumbs from the table?


Mr. Speaker, no.
The Prime Minister met with the President of the United States to talk about a number of outstanding issues, particularly trade irritants. The Prime Minister was very forceful and forthcoming over what we consider
to be harassment by the United States concerning softwood lumber, Honda and other issues.
The hon. Leader of the Opposition should be pleased with the fact that the President has undertaken to personally become involved in these particular issues, and as well to use whatever influence he has with respect to Congress.
I should also remind the hon. Leader of the Opposition that the Prime Minister will be meeting with the heads of the Senate and the House of Representatives as well to talk about the respective trade issues that affect Canada and the United States, particularly our bilateral trading relationship.


Mr. Speaker, unfortunately we noted at the press conference that Murphy Brown got more attention than the Prime Minister for his representation to the President.
In the Saturday last Toronto Star a prominent member of the government said: "The Prime Minister recognizes that changes have to be made and we are in the process of making them before the next election".
I want to ask the Deputy Prime Minister if the government is changing the policy at long last and agreeing with the Canadian public that the free trade deal needs renegotiation, or was the Prime Minister just reporting to the President of the United States as a subsidiary reports to the head office?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member knows very well that there are always things that can be improved in a trading agreement.
One of the reasons, of course, that we are in the North American free trade agreement discussions is that we believe through that vehicle we can make some changes that will be beneficial to Canada in the free trade agreement with the United States.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Deputy Prime Minister.
Today the Conference Board of Canada released its latest outlook for the Canadian economy. It concluded: "The current situation in Canada is grim-We are on the verge of recession". This means that this government's
May 20, 1992

economic policies, especially the last budget, have been a failure.
The Minister of Finance has already said that his budget has been wrong on growth, wrong on jobs and yesterday his department said that the numbers for the deficit for last year have also been wrong.
Why will the minister not admit that his budget has been a failure and bring in new policies that this time focus on economic growth and jobs before it is too late and before this country falls back into recession?


Mr. Speaker, the forecast provided by the Conference Board of Canada is overly pessimistic.
There are a number of indicators that would prove otherwise. For example, real exports were up 3.7 per cent in the first quarter. The results flow from a strong increase in imports of 7.8 per cent in March, which indicates that there is a great deal of purchasing in the area of machinery and equipment, and this is a very positive indicator. Housing starts went up by 7 per cent; 14 per cent for single detached dwellings.
It is also important to point out, as Mr. Frank indicated in his report through the Conference Board of Canada, that "the central problem lies with declining real disposable income in Canada due to falling employment and rising taxes in many provincial budgets".
Obviously what has happened is that the stimulus we have provided in our February budget has been usurped and eroded by the actions of many provincial government budgets which have increased taxes, and that is something we did not do.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Deputy Prime Minister.
Today Patti Croft, an economist at Bums Fiy Limited, said speaking about these export-import numbers: "I don't think it is indicative of an economic turnaround".
I do not see why the Minister of Finance tries to put the blame on the provinces for offloading on them the effects of his own cutbacks.
Oral Questions
The Conference Board said: "We can put aside the hope that lower interest rates and inflation will rouse the consumer. Jobs are all that matter-With unemployment falling 110,000 in March and April, we cannot see much prospect for improvement over the short term".
Why will the Minister of Finance not recognize that this is a valid and damning indictment of his policies and bring in new policies that focus on growth and jobs and give Canadians hope and give Canadians confidence?
What is he waiting for? Surely he does not want another recession.


Mr. Speaker, I was not trying to blame anybody else. I was simply quoting for the record the comments of Mr. James Frank when he said: "the central problem lies with the declining real disposable income in Canada due to falling employment and rising taxes by many provincial budgets".
Did the hon. member not read The Globe and Mail of Monday where the headline says: "Maz giveth and the provinces taketh away"? That is the problem.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Prime Minister, my question is for the acting Prime Minister.
The government is obviously determined to spread confusion on the constitutional issue. On one hand, the minister responsible boasts about the progress made at the negotiating table, and on the other, his colleague, the minister of health, says that there is nothing on the table for Quebec, "absolutely nothing for Quebec" are his exact words and that no transfer of powers has yet been discussed. An obvious question arises: Who is telling the truth, the minister of health or his colleague?


Mr. Speaker, the meeting is now going on in Montreal and another meeting will take place next week, with a known agenda. Of course, some questions take more time than others, but the whole agenda will be followed and the timetable will be respected.

May 20, 1992
Oral Questions


But, Mr. Speaker, the agenda is not known. It is the big unknown in Canada at this time.
The response indicates that the government does not know where it is going. First it suggests there is an agreement, then it threatens to hold a referendum as a stick. When will this government make up its mind? Are we to understand that May 31, the date mentioned yesterday, is the deadline for the effort now under way?


Mr. Speaker, he says the agenda is not known, but I have in my notes here that they will discuss Senate reform and aboriginal issues on Wednesday and spend Thursday on the division of powers. Friday will be spent on all the points discussed and Senate reform as well.


Mr. Speaker, since the Minister of Finance quoted from the Conference Board's discussion of why there were problems in our economy, why the situation was grim, why did he not concentrate on the key point that Mr. Frank makes, the falling employment which exists in this country? In fact declining interest rates, as this report makes clear, have not spurred consumer spending. Business investment is going to be lower and unemployment is going to stay at 11 per cent until the end of 1992.
Does the Minister of Finance not recognize that it is time to bring in a new budget which shifts spending and puts spending behind an expansion of jobs in this country to get people back to work?


Mr. Speaker, the report points out it is somewhat counterproductive if, on the one hand, the federal government moves to provide some tax relief, to provide some slack so that individual Canadians have
more disposable income and to see on the other hand, that is taken up and in fact exceeded, particularly by the three NDP governments. They are the ones that have been the most guilty in this particular area. They not only sapped the tax breaks that we provided Canadians. They imposed further taxes, and that is the point he is making.
I am very concerned about the level of unemployment and the lack of employment. The budget did take some very major steps in trying to provide a more competitive environment in the manufacturing and processing sector, that particular sector which has been most hard hit. We have provided additional resources for training so that we can upgrade skills and improve the capability of our work force to meet the new demands that are out there. All these things are part and parcel of the budgetary provisions.
I recognize and I acknowledge, even in the budget, that the fourth quarter was slower than we expected and that could carry over into the first quarter. That is certainly not reason to abandon ship and start to do what the NDP wants to do: print money and hope the problem will go away.


Mr. Speaker, we have seen a government which on January first of this year increased taxes on Canadians $1.8 billion and then talked in the House of Commons about trying to reduce taxes. The unemployment insurance increases this government put through in terms of increased fees have done as much damage as anything across this country in terms of reducing consumer demand.
What is the Minister of Finance going to do in the face of this forecast that economic growth will only be one per cent when his budget was based on a forecast of 2.7 per cent, almost three times as much? That is what is causing the unemployment in this country; that is what the minister has to respond to.


Mr. Speaker, again not to belabour the point, the report clearly cites on at least three different occasions on two pages the impact of the provincial budgets, the impact of the increased taxes provided by provincial budgets. I am not making that up.
May 20, 1992

If the hon. member wants to accept this report, why does he not accept that element of it?
I indicated to him that I believe his forecasts of one per cent GDP for 1992 were overly pessimistic. I also indicated that because of the slowness in the fourth quarter and the extension into the first quarter of 1992 our target of 2.7 per cent may not be met. As a matter of fact, with Statistics Canada adjusting the figures for 1991 downward by .4 per cent, that immediately throws the 2.7 per cent figure out of kilter because it then becomes 2.3 per cent. We are looking at growth that will be less than that.
I have acknowledged that publicly and I acknowledge it here, but that is no reason to start out on a new policy course. The course that we are following is sound. There has been continuing monetary ease. There have been provisions for the manufacturing sector. There have been inducements-


I think we are going to have to move on.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of National Revenue.
As we know, tourism is one of our major economic generators. This last weekend there were long lineups at the American border with many of our tourists being held up there.
Could the minister tell us what is being done to expedite the access of American tourists to Canada? This has been widely reported in the American press. What can we do to tell them that Canada is a good place to visit?


Mr. Speaker, it may come as a surprise to this House, because it is good news and that is very seldom reported, that cross-border shopping has decreased two consecutive months in a row. Between January and March there were 300,000 fewer one-day trips. I am not jumping up and down with joy yet, but if the trend continues I think we will see positive results.
As far as the specific question from the hon. member is concerned, we have not only brought greater efficiency to the border with new technology and systems to speed up the process. We in fact have opened up some
Oral Questions
nine special tourist lanes in nine locations nationally, three of them in British Columbia, which have increased tourism over the last few months.
Tourism is increasing. Cross-border shopping is decreasing. This is good news, and I hope the parliamentary press gallery will write about it one day.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. Yesterday I urged the Canadian government to support the people of Thailand in their struggle for democracy. I am pleased to see that today the government has acted in response to our recommendations to cancel arms exports. However, that is not enough.
I want to ask the minister this: Will she clearly demonstrate her support for the democratic forces and immediately cancel direct aid and lines of credit for Thailand? Will she ask for an international inquiry into the events of the past few days?


Mr. Speaker, like all members of this House and all Canadians I am horrified by what has occurred in Thailand over the past few days.
I would like to report to the House that just in the last hour or so there have been some positive developments, including an amnesty by royal decree for all the people who have been arrested and a movement back toward democratic practices through the intervention of the king with the prime minister and with the leader of the opposition who had been on a hunger strike.
We are therefore a little more hopeful than I was even this morning, and I know that the House will be pleased to hear that.
Let me say in terms of the action we have taken that we have called in the Thai ambassador to Canada. We have asked our ambassador there to intervene with the prime minister. We are in regular touch with our ambassador and have asked for a report from him. We have called on the Thai government to institute a process of independent inquiry. We are monitoring

May 20, 1992
Oral Questions
virtually minute by minute the situation and will take further action as we think it is required.


Mr. Speaker, we certainly welcome the news from the minister about events changing, but I think there are some important questions for the minister.
This government has said constantly that it ties direct assistance to the question of human rights. Why is it that in the past year we have increased our arms exports to Thailand and we have increased our direct aid to that country when we knew it had a repressive military regime?
I also want to ask the minister: as a major signal should we not put a freeze on that direct aid until we see that there is clear movement toward the re-establishment of a democratic government in that country, not just the amelioration of some conditions but the return of democracy?


Mr. Speaker, the aid we give to Thailand is in support of democratic development. Much of it even though it is defined as government development actually is institutional. It goes to places like the Thailand Development Research Institute, an independent think tank for economic policy in support of democracy and good governance. There are projects for community development and for human resource development.
Those are very important projects in the current context. While we are prepared to take strong action on aid as it is required, we think that under these circumstances, certainly to date, these projects support the democratic process and are useful for the people of Thailand as they search for full democracy.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the chairman of the standing committee on justice which is now studying the proposed firearms regulations.
I want to be sure that I will have the opportunity to discuss with the committee some problematic regulations. One such regulation is the requirement to load guns only wher