Madam Speaker, I have the honour to present the eighth report of the Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, Social Affairs, Seniors and the Status of Women, Toward 2000, Eliminating Child Poverty relating the characteristics associated with poor households in Canada.
The committee requests that the government table a comprehensive response to the report within 150 days.


Madam Speaker, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the fifth report of the Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. Pursuant to Standing Order 109, the committee requests that the government table a comprehensive response within 150 days.
I have one or two brief comments I would like to make. Not only is this report in our two official languages but inasmuch as we are dealing with the livelihood of peoples who likely cannot read either language we have prepared the report in three other languages that are prevalent in aboriginal communities. These are Cree, Inuvialuit and Inuktitut.
We hope that through the translation, we are providing the essence of this report which was prepared and unanimously supported by the aboriginal affairs committee for submission to Parliament. We hope that our second effort at this will ensure a continued livelihood in the fur business for four of Canada's aboriginal peoples who so much depend on it for self-sufficiency.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


for leave to introduce Bill C-444, an act to provide for full employment in Canada.


Pursuant to Standing Order 68(2), the motion is deemed adopted.


Madam Speaker, I am proud to have the opportunity to introduce my private member's bill entitled an act to provide for full employment in Canada.
This legislation recognizes that high unemployment is an unacceptable waste of both human potential and economic capital. It also recognizes that full employment must be the primary goal of all economic and fiscal policies of the federal government.
This is the surest way to finally end double digit unemployment and poverty and afford Canadian women and men the chance and the dignity of making a living in all regions of the country. Canada works when Canadians work.
This bill is not merely political porturing. It also contains an implementation clause. The bill provides that the Minister of Labour shall prepare a preliminary implementation plan for full employment in Canada and table it in Parliament. The plan will be subject to an annual review, in terms of the objectives to be set for achieving full employment, and a report on the adjustments required to meet the plan's objectives will be

June 8, 1993
Routine Proceedings
prepared within six months after the end of the year and tabled in Parliament.


Ms. McLaughlin moves that the bill be now read the first time and printed.
Pursuant to Standing Order 69(1), the motion is deemed adopted.
Bill read the first time and printed.


for leave to introduce Bill C-445, an Act to provide for the collection of statistics respecting incidents investigated by police forces where those incidents manifest evidence of bias against certain identifiable groups.


Pursuant to Standing Order 68(2), the motion is deemed adopted.


Madam Speaker, I have the honour to introduce this bill that would establish a national bias crime registry. The absence of such a registry has in my view hindered our effectiveness at combating hate and bias crime.
The establishment of a hate crimes registry will shine a spotlight on this issue and enable all officials to look at how various communities have been targeted, whether by individual or organized acts of bias crime.

It is a matter of physical and mental security. Canadians have the right to know whether their government will deal with the problem of hate crimes. I believe that without the information such a registry would provide, any efforts to fight hate crimes will not be very effective. Governments must have adequate annual statistics to be able to take vigorous action.


Mrs. Maheu moves that the bill be now read the first time and printed.
Pursuant to Standing Order 69(1), the motion is deemed adopted.
Bill read the first time and printed.


for leave to introduce Bill C-446, an act to amend the Criminal Code (defamatory libel).


Pursuant to Standing Order 68(2), the motion is deemed adopted.


Madam Speaker, this is my first attempt at a private member's bill that deals with something that arose in my life prior to politics.
It is a tendency of the media from time to time to be in such a hurry to be first with a story that they ignore the responsibility side of the freedom which our society provides them.
This bill would add to section 300 of the Criminal Code the provision that everyone who publishes defamatory libel that he knows is false or, and this is the addition, with a reckless disregard for its truth is guilty of an indictable offence.
All we are asking with this legislation is that reporters and journalists, those who publish, make an honest effort to determine whether what they are publishing is true.
We have a second section in this bill which states that if they have made a mistake and then make a very vigorous and sensible effort to correct it, not simply by putting the correction on the back page somewhere but by giving it prominence and making an effort to correct what they did to cause the damage in the first place, there can be a mitigation of sentence.
I draw this to the attention of the House. In particular I draw it to the attention of those who own and publish periodicals and other media. The time has come in society where a greater effort needs to be made to publish the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.
June 8, 1993


Mr. Hawkes moves that the bill be now read the first time and printed.
Pursuant to Standing Order 69(1), the motion is deemed adopted.
Bill read the first time and printed.


Madam Speaker, I rise today under Standing Order 36 to present petitions signed by people from southwestern Ontario, from Dutton, West Lome, Fingal, Rodney, Springfield, Samia, Chatham and my own constituency and the village of Wardsville.
The petition calls on the government to the ban a board game being introduced into Canada called serial killer board game, number one edition, and the importation of serial killer cards.
Parents and grandparents strongly object to this game being allowed into Canada. The board game comes complete with a body bag, 25 babies and four serial killer figures. The object of the game is to commit murder and the person with the highest body count is the winner.
This ghoulish game is not in the best interests of children or Canadians of any age. The cards glamorize individuals who have wounded, raped and killed many people.
These petitioners humbly pray and call upon this House and Parliament to urge the Government of Canada to ban the sale of the serial killer board game and serial killer cards and any other such games, cards or materials made available in Canada in order to protect innocent children and Canadian citizens from violence.


Madam Speaker, in this first instance I have petitioners who point out that in receipted day care there are deductions for those who use that type of child care while there is no comparable deduction for those parents who choose to
Routine Proceedings
stay at home to raise their children. They feel this is an unfair situation which they would like corrected.
They also point out that there are too many programs in the taxation system that lead to real confusion and they call on the government to simplify the rules and regulations and the programs.
This second group of petitioners ask that deductions for child care be deductible from income for those families with special needs children, and especially for single parent families with special needs children.
They point out that some children require special facilities and services which are extremely costly. They believe that the current laws are unfair, insensitive and discriminatory and that they must be reviewed.


This third instance, Madam Speaker, we have petitioners who want a simplification of the language of taxation. They also believe that unemployed workers, workers who are receiving workers' compensation and others who require child care so that they can go to interviews, take training programs, et cetera, should be permitted to do so.
They ask for the elimination of the goods and services tax. They ask for the promotion of the $1,000 interest and investment income deduction to encourage Canadians to bring investment back to Canada. They want an allowance of tax deductions for individuals who work on commission who must purchase their uniforms and/or tools for their employment. They want a cessation of tax loopholes which benefit the wealthy and large corporations, notably deferrals for private family trusts, business and entertainment exemptions, et cetera.
Finally, they want implementation of tax credits which would assist individuals with no or low incomes for the purchase of pharmaceutical drugs for seniors and education expenses for students.


Madam Speaker, I am pleased to present five petitions with 167 names from Gordon Grant, Gary Lohmeier, Roy George, Gordon Wright and Jack and Mary Cardiff on behalf of a group of constituents of mine who humbly call upon Parliament to enact legislation which will allow a referendum of the people binding upon Parliament to accept

Routine Proceedings
or reject the two official languages, English and French, for the government and people of Canada.


Madam Speaker, I have two petitions to present this morning. The first I wish to present pursuant to Standing Order 36 is one in which people throughout my riding, from Grand Forks to Westbridge to Beaverdell, have expressed concern over the proposed North American free trade agreement.
They suggest that the North American free trade agreement cannot be remedied through renegotiation and they call upon the House to reject the proposed North American free trade agreement and to recommend to the government that it use the termination clause to end the U.S.-Canada free trade agreement.


Madam Speaker, it is my duty to present this petition sent to me by Mr. Donald Deprose of Penticton, British Columbia in which the petitioners call upon Parliament to enact legislation providing for a referendum of the people binding upon Parliament to accept or reject two official languages, English and French, for the government and the people of Canada.


Madam Speaker, it is my privilege on behalf of my constituents to present two petitions under Standing Order 36.
The first petition requests that the minister responsible act immediately to correct the inequity of non-custodial parents in Canada who are allowed an income tax deduction for child support payments while custodial parents are not allowed a similar deduction for their financial contributions to child rearing.
The petitioners point out that custodial parents must pay income tax on child support payments received from non-custodial parents. Therefore they request that this inequity be treated by the minister responsible to ensure
that the child support contributions of both custodial and non-custodial parents be equal for tax purposes.


Madam Speaker, my other petition is from persons who feel very strongly that the Canada Labour Code does not contain any limitations on the ability of employers to continue operating with replacement workers during a strike or lockout.
The petitioners cite the lockout of Nationair's 450 flight attendants which started in 1991 as an example of unnecessary picket line violence and confrontation taking place in the absence of such anti-scab legislation.
They therefore urge Parliament to amend the Canada Labour Code to prohibit the use of replacement workers by employers during a strike or lockout in the federal jurisdiction, as Quebec, Ontario and British Columbia have.


Madam Speaker, I have a number of petitions.
A number of people in the riding of Okanagan-Shuswap as well as people throughout British Columbia are very concerned about the intention to dam the North Thompson River at Valemount, British Columbia and the sale of that water to San Diego and other California markets.
The petitioners ask the government to state categorically that it will not permit our fresh waters to be dammed and diverted to the U.S.A. and to state that our Canadian rivers are not for sale.
On behalf of residents throughout British Columbia I submit those petitions.


Madam Speaker, this group of petitions concerns the proposed North American trade agreement.
It has resulted in even greater trade concessions being demanded of Canada. In particular, the new generic versions of brand name drugs will no longer be allowed
June 8, 1993

Routine Proceedings
on the market during the 20-year monopoly on the drug pricing for each.
The petitioners ask the House and this government to reject the proposed North American trade agreement and to recommend to the government that it use the termination clause to end the Canada-U.S. trade agreement.


Madam Speaker, my last petition is with respect to the actions of the government.
These citizens are concerned about and fear that the government has disenfranchised the people of Canada with respect to official languages.
They ask that a referendum of the people be held to accept or reject the two official languages policy that is currently in place for the Government of Canada.


Madam Speaker, it is an honour to present a group of petitions from residents of Squilax, Salmon Arm, Celista, Anglemont, Chase, Vancouver, Seymour Arm, Little Fort, Heffley Creek, Kelowna, Forest Grove, Lac des Roches, Edmonton, Kamloops and a number of other smaller communities.
They like others earlier today have indicated their opposition to any possibility of the interbasin transfer of water for export.
The petitioners urge the Government of Canada to pass the bill recently introduced in the House that would prohibit interbasin transfer of water for export purposes.


Madam Speaker, I have another petition signed by a number of residents of the Indo-Canadian community in Kamloops who point out that there have been changes to section 6 of the Immigration Act which includes the family class for immigration purposes.
They point out that this will set up barriers to family reunification, particularly for young women who traditionally remain dependent on their parents until they marry in India.
The petitioners are simply asking Parliament to re-examine that section of the Immigration Act to ensure that it does not prohibit the reunification of Indo-Canadian families, as well as others of course.


Madam Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36 I have the honour to present two petitions including the names of hundreds of people from the riding of Elk Island and elsewhere.
The first petition asks Parliament to strengthen or replace the Young Offenders Act with legislation that would be a stronger deterrent to youth crime.
These petitioners are concerned mostly with repeat violent young offenders and they recommend that there be harsher penalties including work camps. In cases dealing with theft or property damage they suggest financial repayment to the victims of crime.


Madam Speaker, the second petition that I am presenting today deals with child poverty.
A number of petitioners from Fort Saskatchewan and elsewhere ask Parliament to take the actions necessary to reaffirm its commitment to seek the elimination of poverty among children in Canada by the year 2000 and to develop a plan for the implementation of this commitment.


Madam Speaker, I have the pleasure today to present over
100,000	signatures on petitions to add to the almost two million signatures that have already been presented in the House by various members and parties.
These petitioners feel that there are still serious deficiencies in the criminal justice system of Canada. They ask that Parliament recognize that crimes of violence against the person are serious and abhorrent in our society.
These petitioners ask the government to amend the Criminal Code of Canada, the Bail Reform Act 1972, and the Parole Act accordingly.

June 8, 1993
Government Orders OFFICIAL LANGUAGES


Madam Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition that has been certified by the clerk pursuant to Standing Order 36.
This petition includes the signatures of some of my constituents in the riding of Medicine Hat. The petition calls on the Government of Canada to enact legislation providing for a referendum of the people, binding upon Parliament, to accept or reject two official languages, English and French, for the government and the people of Canada.


Madam Speaker, if Questions Nos. 496 and 509 could be made Orders for Returns, those returns would be tabled immediately.


Is it the pleasure of the House that Questions Nos. 496 and 509 be deemed to have been made Orders for Returns?


Agreed.


For each fiscal year since 1985 did the government retain the services of private law firms in Edmonton and, if so, in each case, (a) what was the name of the firm, (b) what amount was received?
Return tabled.

Question No. 509-Mr. Harvey (Edmonton East):
For each year since 1985 did the government retain the services of private law firms in Calgary and, if so, in each case, (a) what was the name of the firm (b) what amount was received?
Return tabled.


Madam Speaker, I ask that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Shall the remaining questions stand?


Madam Speaker, I move pursuant to Standing Order
78(3):
That, in relation to Bill C-62, an act respecting telecommunications, not more than one further sitting day shall be allotted to the consideration of report stage and one sitting day to the consideration of the third reading stage of the bill; and
That, 15 minutes before the expiry of the time provided for Government Orders on the day allotted to the report stage consideration and on the day allotted to the third reading stage consideration of the said bill, any proceedings before the House shall be interrupted, if required, for the purpose of this order and, in turn, every question necessary to dispose of the stage of the bill then under consideration shall be put forthwith and successively, without further debate or amendment.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the yeas have it.
And more than five members having risen:


Call in the members.


Agreed.

June 8, 1993
Bjornson	Blais
Blenkam	Bosley
Bouchard (Roberval)	Brightwell
Browes	Cadieux
Chadwick	Chart rand
Clark (Yellowhead)	Clark (Brandon-Souris)
Clifford	Cole
Corbeil	Corbett
Cote	Couture
Crosby (Halifax West)	Danis
Darling	DeBlois
de Cotret	Della Noce
Desjardins	Dobbie
Domra	Dorin
Duplessis	Epp
Fee	Feltham
Ferland	Fontaine
Friesen	Gibeau
Gray (Bonaventure-Iles-de-la-Madeleine) Greene	
Guilbault	Halliday
Harvey (Chicoutimi)	Hawkes
Hicks	Hockin
Hogue	Holtmann
Horner	Horning
Hughes	James
Jelinek	Johnson
Joncas	Jourdenais
Kempling	Koury
Landry	Langlois
Loiselle	MacDonald (Rosedale)
MacDougall (Timiskaming-French River)	MacKay
Malone	Martin (Lincoln)
Masse	Mazankowski
McCreath	McDermid
McDougall (St. Paul's)	McLean
Merrithew	Mitges
Monteith	Moore
Nicholson	Oberle
O'Kurley	Plourde
Pronovost	Redway
Reimer	Ricard
Richardson	Roy-Arcelin
Saint-Julien	Schneider
Shields	Siddon
Sobeski	Soetens
Sparrow	Stevenson
Tardif	Tetreault
Thacker	Thompson
Thorkelson	Tremblay (Quebec-Est)
Tremblay (Lotbiniere)	Himer (Halton-Peel)
Valcourt	Van De Walle
Vankoughnet	Vezina
Vien	Vincent
Wilbee Wilson (Swift Current-Maple	Winegard
Creek-Assiniboia)	Worthy-118
	NAYS
	Members
Allmand	Althouse
Assad	Baker
Belair	Bellemare
Benjamin	Berger
Black	Bouchard (Lac-Saint-Jean)
Boudria	Breaugh
Butland	Catterall
Clancy	Crawford
Duceppe	Duhamel
Ferguson	Finestone
Flis	Fontana
Foster	FUlton
Gauthier	Grey (Beaver River)
Harb	Harvard
Heap	Hovdebo
Government Orders
Jordan
Karpoff
Kindy
Langan (Mission-Coquitlam) Lee
Manley
Mifflin
Nault
Nystrom
Peterson
Proud
Riis
Speller
Tremblay (Rosemont) Whittaker
Kaplan
Keyes
Kristiansen
Langdon (Essex-Windsor)
Mac William
Marleau
Milliken
Now lan
Parker
Phinney
Rideout
Rompkey
Stewart
Wappel
Young (Acadie-Bathurst)-60


nil/aucun
I declare the motion carried.


The House resumed, from Tbesday, June 1, consideration of Bill C-62, an act respecting telecommunications, as reported (with amendments) from a subcommittee of the Standing Committee on Communications and Culture; and Motions Nos. 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11.
When the debate on Bill C-62 was suspended we were considering Motions Nos. 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11, and the hon. member for Mount Royal had up to eight minutes left to speak. The hon. member for Mount Royal has the floor.


Mr. Speaker, I was in the process of looking at the amendments to clause 7 of this telecommunications bill. This clause is basically the heart of this government's concepts and design for the telecommunications industry across this land.
I think that the members of the Liberal Party who were sitting at that committee, as well as the other opposition party, were very effective in bringing about changes to the government's legislation. I outlined at the outset that the procedure was most unique.
Although I would like to pursue the changes that are being recommended to clause 7,1 find totally unacceptable the minister's lack of candour, his laying the blame elsewhere rather than on himself, on his ministry, and on

Government Orders
the front bench of this government. The cabinet obviously did not see the same importance in the telecommunications legislation as the minister seemed to and as the industry certainly indicated.
Rather than pushing on his own House leader and rather than being candid and forthright with this industry the minister decided to make some public statements indicating that this bill was being blocked by the opposition parties in filibustering his wonderful bill that he had not even created in the first place and in which he wimped out on some very significant matters within this bill.
He walked into this House after having given a press conference and I quote what he said according to the media:
The federal government will have to strong-arm the opposition to get the bill through the House. It's clear what we're dealing with here is a filibuster. The only way for this to go through is to call time allocation which limits debate on the bill.
That is what the Minister of Communications said to the media as quoted by Jill Vardy in The Financial Post.
The reality of the situation is that this government did not pay very much attention to this bill. It certainly was never on the front burner, although in the glorious rhetoric of the Prime Minister it was one of the things that he mentioned in the 1984 Speech from the Throne.
It was the first issue that came to attention in the document and budget of the now Minister for International Trade and the then Minister of Finance. It sat on the back burner until there was a memorandum of understanding in which the then minister, Flora MacDonald, issued defining type one and type two telecommunications structure. That was in July 1987 just prior to the free trade agreement.
On February 7, 1992 after having waited nine years for this government to act on telecommunications-


A lot of years.


That is right. Nine whole years for this government to act on telecommunications.
The government finally brought in this bill at the beginning of February 1992. Then this bill sat on the back burner for another year, never even getting to the House for second reading until April 19, 1993.
It finally got reported to this House on May 28 after it had been sent to committee. It had exactly two weeks in committee, one week of which was the Easter break. The government says we are responsible for this government's poor agenda in getting it in here at that time.
Clause by clause started on May 11 and we had two sessions on that day. As I say the House then closed on May 17. We came back, we had two and one-half sitting days to address this bill and it was reported after a late Thursday night session on Friday morning to this House. We started June 1 to debate it here.
This minister has not been able to get his House leader to put it on the debating agenda. He would have had to mix the pot, get in touch with the constituents and tell them to raise a big fuss. Well thank goodness they raised a fuss because otherwise this minister would not have the bill moved past square one.
I want to say to this minister:

You are to blame. I must say to him that he is to blame as well as his government if the industry does not welcome the bill as he would like. He must go to the Senate when the debate in the House is over.

They have called closure time and time again on everything else. I think this now comes to 23 times this government has called closure. Certainly I know I have counted up to 19 or 20 times.
How do we have a normal debate? How do we have constructive changes made? With co-operation on both sides of the House, which I had presumed there was. I was prepared to say to this minister: "You really allowed a better process in committee. You did not use the legislative committee format. You used a subcommittee of the standing committee and we were able to improve this bill most significantly".
June 8, 1993

But no, he had to become a mean person, mean and lily-livered in many ways. I feel very sorry for him for the way he has conducted himself in this particular instance.


A shameful display.


The delay has been on the government side, certainly not on this side of the debating chamber, this side of the two foils which I think would have been very apt at this time.
With respect to the changes that were brought about here, I just want to touch on an amendment brought in by my colleague from the NDP which relates to the changes under privacy.
Even to getting the privacy matter right, this minister did not get his act together to put a bill together that reflects convergence and how telephony will be linked to the whole cable network, to the whole cable system, to what was happening out there to the world yesterday, never mind today and tomorrow.
We are going to need a bill that is going to bridge the broadcast bill and this telecommunications bill. On the privacy side there is very little that has been done in this bill. The government had to bring another bill in first to tinker with and make this public relations undertaking that we care about privacy.
Therefore we brought in a bill on cellular telephones which are really not telephones but radios. They should have been incorporated as part of this bill, but because there seemed to be some ministerial thought that this would have better PR focus he put it somewhere else.
I think it is important for the bill to go through. I indicated that to the industry from square one. It is unconscionable and a sad moment that the minister and his staff, along with the government and its cabinet, do not know how to take full responsibility. They love to lay the blame somewhere else: "You made us do it". How sad. I think I will get them big boxes of Kleenex.


Mr. Speaker, it is interesting the hon. member for Mount Royal says that it is important the bill go through. We share that view, but we believe very strongly that the bill should only go through if it is markedly strengthened. That is
Government Orders
the thrust behind the amendments put forward by my colleague, the hon. member for Okanagan-Shuswap.
The hon. member for Mount Royal also talked about the press report that the minister would have to bring the big hammer into the House to ensure that the bill goes through because members of Parliament on this side were filibustering. It has been a long time since the House saw a filibuster. From the time this Parliament began in 1988 it has not been possible to have a filibuster in the House.
If it looks like the debate is getting a bit feisty, a bit meaningful and a bit interesting, the government moves closure yet again so it can ram through its legislation and ensure that meaningful discussion does not take place.
To have the minister reporting to the press that he will have to use the big hammer on the opposition because we are delaying this bill or any other bill in the House is insulting at its very best. The minister could at least have respect for the House by looking a bit embarrassed by those kinds of statements.
With regard to the amendments in Motions Nos. 6, 7, 8, 10 and 11 it is important to look at the five amendments to the clause as objectives for the telecommunications industry. The first amendment would ensure that the telecommunications infrastructure is used to improve and express Canada's cultural identity.
The government failed to define the imminent convergence between telecommunications carriers and broadcasters. It has produced a visionless entrenchment of the status quo.
Cultural groups across the country are outraged that culture has been expunged from the objectives of the bill. Keith Kelly, national director of the Canadian Conference of the Arts, said: "We need to bring telecommunications into the cultural realm and to recognize its increasing importance in the production and delivery of cultural products".
There is no reference in the bill to any responsibility of the telecommunications industry to further the federal government's cultural objectives. The hon. minister is gazing at the ceiling. I might be boring him. These are important points. If the government were to take the opposition as seriously as it takes its friends in the telecommunications industry, we might end up with a good bill.

Government Orders
Multinational businesses are already exploiting telecommunications to circumvent Canadian rules intended to protect and promote culture. Sports Illustrated is publishing a Canadian edition that has little Canadian content, but because it is being beamed across the border and printed in Canada there is nothing the federal government can do or will do. Sports Illustrated is only one example in the print media.
We in Vancouver enjoy The Globe and Mail because it is beamed across the country. There is nothing to stop a whole flood of American publications being printed in Canada and claiming to be Canadian products with Canadian content.
With the bill we have rigid rules for broadcasters to promote and protect Canadian content but no rules for telecommunication industries. I wonder whether the next step will be a change in broadcast policy so they can compete with telecommunications. Pretty soon we will have no rules. We will have deregulation for the entire broadcast-telecommunications sector. Is that the slippery slope this minister is taking us on?
It is important that just around the comer is the convergence of the broadcasting and telecommunications industries. The bill is silent on the issue. If this bill were passed into law, telecommunications companies would be exempt from the rules which apply to broadcasters to promote culture, but they could well be offering the same products as broadcasters.
The small omission in the bill may have huge ramifications. Ottawa will have relinquished any ability to promote Canadian culture in the future. One might ask why there has been such an omission. Was it to satisfy the needs of Quebec nationalists who argue that the federal government should relinquish all control over culture? It is important to take a look at what that means.
The Alliance of Canada Cinemas says: "Accepting a recommendation to delete references to sovereignty, politics and culture would ignore the long-term implications of convergence. It would be bowing to a deregulation fever that may be premature. Many issues relating to the transport of information through telecommunications pipelines remain unanswered, such as access by programming services and compensation for rights contained in material distributed. Moreover, we submit that those advocating the deletion of social and cultural
clauses in this bill have a narrow view of the potential volume of information and business opportunities available. In short, they are not looking past their bottom line at the expense of the greater public interest".
We are here to be concerned about the greater public interest. We see deregulation in the industry again. The government has not learned from the deregulation of the airline industry, deregulation of the railroad industry, deregulation across the country.
Deregulation brings problems and the destruction of the Canadian milieu. It changes us into something other than what Canadians really believe we want to be, that is a united Canada, a Canada with an identity and a Canada we can all be proud of, not a 51st state.


Mr. Speaker, before I begin to speak on the amendments themselves I would like to draw the attention of the public to the fact that once again the government has used a form of closure or time allocation. It is something like the 47th time this has been used since 1988 when I was sent here by the constituents of Okanagan-Similkameen-Merritt. It has been used in a manner that is totally shameless on the part of the government.
Eveiy time there is cause for reasonable debate on a bill, every time there is something the people of Canada are interested in, every time there is something the people of Canada should be told about and there is a debate that should take place, this government has immediately marched in and cut off all meaningful debate.
The government has given little opportunity in most cases for any discussion, whether it be on the GST, the free trade agreement, the North American free trade agreement or major changes to the Unemployment Insurance Act. I could go on and on. It became so ridiculous, I recall, that two years ago the government brought in a time allocation motion on a bill that was uncontested by the opposition. It would not even talk to the opposition to know the bill it was putting before Parliament was uncontested.
Similarly we have the situation with the telecommunications bill, a bill that could substantially change the way we look into the future. With the major changes taking place in telecommunications technology it seems that

this is a time when we should be looking very carefully at a bill to take us into the 21st century.
Such a bill has been on the books for over four years and the government at the last minute brings in approximately 75 amendments at report stage. The minister will say there are only 53, but if we analyse it we see something like 75 amendments were brought in at the last minute that need careful scrutiny.
This bill was brought in and then gutted and regutted. What we are trying to do here is to include some semblance of reasonableness in the legislation before Parliament.
This particular grouping deals with the telecommunications area and the cultural industry. A semblance of reasonableness was put forward by the various groups that appeared before the legislative committee. They were concerned we were going into the 21st century looking at a changing industry and looking at technological changes that could forever harm the culture of the country. That culture has been slowly building over the past three centuries. It has been slowly building over the last 125 years of the Canadian entity. Now we see major changes occurring because of the telecommunications industry and technological changes.
The crux has to be that we must look at where we are going in the future. We have to look at the legislation before us to ensure there are safeguards for the cultural industry of Canada. We need to listen to the cultural industry within Canada to ensure we are using what it sees as the areas we should be going into and putting them into legislative changes.
After all, these groups have been fighting for their existence for a good number of years. They have been studying and living day to day with the reality that unless we move to ensure the technological industry and the telecommunications industry are looked after as they expand, they could be swept away under a barrage of new technology beaming in from other areas.
As my friend from Mission-Coquitlam has said, we are looking at a number of items. Quoting the Canadian Conference of the Arts, Keith Kelly says that we need to bring telecommunications into the cultural realm and to
Government Orders
recognize its increasing importance in the production and delivery of cultural products.
That is a telling phrase. It is essential to the whole argument of where we are going in the future. We have to ensure that within the bill there is reference and provision made for a cultural entity within the telecommunications industry. We want to ensure the Canadian cultural identity is protected and promoted. Multinational businesses are already exploiting telecommunications to circumvent Canadian rules.
Let us look at Motion No. 7 which has been put forward by my friend from Okanagan-Shuswap. The motion ensures the primacy of affordable and reliable telecommunications. The objectives as currently set out in the legislation do not ensure that the provision of affordable telephone service is seen as a more important objective than the current objective to foster increased reliance on market forces. The amendment would ensure the provision of affordable and reliable service is first and foremost.
The government's dogmatic preference for competition for competition's sake has already cost my home province of British Columbia 820 jobs. That is a direct result of competition and deregulation.
The Public Interest Advocacy Centre states:
PI AC continues to be concerned-by the apparent confusion between ends and means. Subsection 7(f) in particular, appears out of place, since it advocates a particular means of achieving the stated policy goals. If there is indeed a commitment to increase reliance on market forces for the provision of telecommunications services, then it belongs in a different category from the goals that it is intended to achieve.
I will now move on to Motion No. 8 to amend clause 7. This amendment would include a specific provision for consultation between federal and provincial governments to ensure that the national telecommunications policy promotes regional industrial development within the industry. Without this amendment there is no provision in the objectives to ensure consultation between the federal and provincial governments.
A representative of the Government of New Brunswick while appearing before the legislative committee stated:
I suggest that section 7 be amended to include:

Government Orders
1)	Consultations between the federal and provincial governments to guarantee that the national telecommunications policy promotes industrial development that will build on the strengths and potential
of each province;
2)	Requirements that the regulator be accessible and responsive to users and providers of telecommunications and services in the provinces.
The Government of New Brunswick wants and feels that there should be more consultation provincially and federally.
In wrapping up we have to look at the over-all protection, not just now but in the future, of our full cultural area within Canada and with each of the Canadian provinces and territories.


Mr. Speaker, I am certainly happy that this bill has finally come to report stage. However there is a really very bizarre set of circumstances surrounding this.
This bill has been promised by every communications minister since 1984. In other words, we are looking at a nine-year delay from when this government came into office until now when this bill is actually on the verge of being passed.
Consequently I find it-the word amusing really pales in the circumstances-passing strange to read a quote from the Minister of Communications in today's The Financial Post. He states: "It is clear that what we are dealing with here is a filibuster", referring to the actions of the New Democratic Party. The article continues: "The only way for this to go through is by time allocation, said communications minister Perrin Beatty".
Really, for nine years the government has dawdled, hung around and done very little on this bill, even on the actual introduction of this bill. It was introduced in February 1992 and second reading did not take place until April 1993. This is hardly, if we are to follow the phrase of operatio sequitur esse, an example of a government with some kind of a plan that it set out to follow with any kind of alacrity, as I know my colleague from Kingston and the Islands would agree.
Now we are being told that the members of the New Democratic Party are filibustering. This is a situation in which if it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it is probably a duck, and this duck is extremely tardy in arriving at the duck pond.
When we look at the various objectives of this bill we have to say that the government has again laboured and brought forth a mouse. While the hon. members to my left do not need me to defend them I think that in particular this group of amendments is one that the government could bear looking at and learning from, although it is difficult to know whether the government does indeed learn.
It is a tired government, full of tired policies and I think most of us are very pleased that we are at the very least winding down, as my hon. colleague from Bonavista would agree, to the proper denouement.
It is upsetting to see this action, to say the least, with regard to legislation that should be duly considered by the members of this House, the vast majority of whom have an interest in making their comments and speaking on behalf of their constituents, but in particular with regard to a bill that has allegedly been on the government's agenda for nine years.


They are slow thinkers over there.


Clearly they are extremely slow thinkers. This is a bill that has taken a year and four months to go from first reading to report stage. Now the government is hurling implications across the floor of the House of Commons and in the public press saying that the representatives of the people, whose right it is to want to debate these amendments fully and make some comment about the amendments this bill so desperately needs, are attempting to cause trouble and cause delay. There is really only one word to describe this kind of argument and obfuscation against the public. That word is silly.


No, it is not.


Yes, my hon. friend from the other side, the word is silly. Every communications minister since 1984 has promised this bill. Finally we were given this bill, a year and four months ago, and now we have this incredible haste, this incredible rush. Maybe I am suspicious, although I am sure my colleagues on this side of the House would disagree with that. Maybe I am seeing things that I should not see, although it would be a first.
It seems to me that what the government wants to do is push this through, along with other pieces of legislation. If by some chance in the limited time available to us before this House rises and before this government, led by whomever, is forced to call an election and allow the
June 8, 1993

democratic process to take its well-deserved course, then it will stand in the public and say that it promised us this sort of legislation and that sort of legislation.
The government will say that it tried its very best to see that sort of legislation would come through but those terrible members of the opposition did not care what was in the best interest of Canadians. The government will say that because the opposition members wanted to stand up and debate these questions, as their constituents elected them to do, it consequently lost the opportunity to get this through.
We on this side of the House want to make it extremely clear to the people of Canada that is not what is going on here. This is a government that had nine full years to do something about this issue. Yet here we are, in the dying days of this Parliament, being forced to rush this along with a number of other bills of great import to the Canadian people. We are being forced to do it in a slapdash and haphazard manner.
The people of Canada deserve better. Very soon the people of Canada will have better.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak to the procedural faux pas that I believe the government has committed in relation to this bill in applying time allocation at this stage on these proceedings. The minister will know that this was an entirely inappropriate move on the part of the government given the excellent co-operation that has occurred in this House for the last couple of weeks.
If he looks at the record, he will notice that yesterday four bills were passed in this House and Senate amendments to another were concurred in. The House finished its work on all those bills before the normal hour of adjournment. The minister and his cabinet colleagues received tremendous co-operation and they know it. We did so in spite of the fact that we could have spent at least a day debating every one of those bills and delaying and holding them up.
The minister has decided that more than two days of debats on this bill is too much and so the government has to silence the opposition. I know why the minister wants to silence the opposition. He does not like the arguments that are being made because we are pointing out too
Government Orders
many problems with this legislation. He and his colleagues decided the best thing to do in the circumstances, notwithstanding the co-operation on other bills, was to force this one through so they could shut the opposition up.
Really it is quite unnecessary, and the minister and his cabinet colleagues know it, unless the minister has some hidden agenda to try to shut the House down early and avoid embarrassment to the new leader of the Conservative Party who could easily be humiliated by having to answer questions in the House.
We have all seen their weaknesses as leaders and we are aware they may have that difficulty. It may take them months to get up to steam to answer questions as a Prime Minister might be expected to answer in this House. We realize that. Perhaps that is really the reason for this, but if so let us have an honest statement that the leaders are incompetent and would be incapable of dealing properly with the House and get on with it. Let us not cover it up by using time allocation at this stage of the proceedings to try to jam things through.
We know that if the minister were running for the leadership and was expected to win we would not have this problem because he is capable of answering questions in the House, unlike some of his colleagues who are in the race. I do not want to discuss that for too long. He might change his mind even at this late date.
The debate on this bill has been exceedingly short. There was considerable time left after the debate on committee stage the other day when we could have gone on to discuss various chunks of the amendments. They are grouped for debate. We could have dealt with them in a more orderly fashion. However, with time allocation it makes it difficult because if the debate on one goes on too long then the others will not get debated at all. At the end of today we may find we have to vote on a series of amendments that have never been discussed because of time allocation. That is regrettable.
Today is also an important anniversary and I thought hon. members might want to observe it. Today is the 30th time in this Parliament that time allocation has been applied to government legislation. I am not counting closure. I am only counting the times that time allocation has been applied under Standing Order 78. This is the 30th such occasion in this Parliament. That is a record.

Government Orders
No other Parliament has suffered from the abuse of the time allocation rule the way this Parliament has.
The government is fond of saying it likes to make Parliament more efficient. It forgets that Parliament is a place for public debate and discussion. It absents itself from the House in large measure, and I congratulate the minister on being here today as it is unusual. By absenting itself and refusing to participate in public debate the government generally ignores the expressed intention and wishes of members of Parliament and carries on with its own legislation.
The result of that has been a disastrously low standing for the government in public opinion polls in this country. It is so much so that it is terrified to call an election, which it is its constitutional duty to do, because it knows that certain defeat awaits it at the polls.
We have had this prolonged delay and procrastination while the government persists in introducing unpopular measures in this House and ramming them through even though its mandate to do so has effectively gone.
We have lots of statements by ministers of the Crown in previous incarnations which indicate that they share my view that a government in the fifth year of its mandate has lost its mandate to govern and introduce substantial legislation.
I said that time allocation had been used 30 times in the House but it is important to bear in mind that today time allocation is being applied to two stages of this bill's progress at one time. It is being applied to the report stage of the bill and also to third reading of the bill.
I went back in my records and counted the use of time allocation and the number of stages of bills that had been affected by time allocation. If we count the two that happened today we are up to 49 various stages of bills that have been subject to time allocation on the 30 occasions on which it has 