The House resumed from Friday, February 26, consideration of the motion of Mr. Waddell (p. 16093):
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.
This matter is votable today if five members rise. There has been an agreement that the vote, if it is to come, will be deferred to six o'clock to make it more convenient for members. I wanted to say that before the debate begins.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is there unanimous consent to defer the vote until six o'clock?


Agreed.


Mr. Speaker, it is a pleasure to rise and participate in the debate on the motion:
That, in the opinion of this House, the government should consider the advisability of introducing legislation on the subject of euthanasia and, in particular, of ensuring that those assisting terminally ill patients who wish to die not be subject to criminal liability.
This matter has been raised and discussed in this House a number of times over the last year. In fact this is the fourth time it has been raised. The debate on each occasion has been an interesting one. It has been carried
on with great seriousness, compassion and caring for the issue at hand and for those people who face a long and agonizing death from a terminal illness.
Canadians have spoken out consistently in favour of some changes to the legislation, to the Criminal Code. These changes would permit Canadians who are nearing the end of their lives, who are faced with a prognosis that is discouraging and does not suggest any opportunity for improvement in their condition causing either physical and emotional pain and suffering or both, and who have a firm commitment and desire to do so, to end their lives, seek assistance in ending their lives if it is not possible for them to do so themselves.
In response to a Gallup poll question, which Gallup has been asking for the last 20 years, dealing with the legalization of physician assistance in dying, consistently over the last decade 75 per cent of respondents to the Gallup poll have argued in favour of some changes to the legislation.
In many phone-in radio shows and television shows that I have done on this subject, that 75 per cent figure is approximately the ratio in which the respondents on the radio and television shows presented their arguments. About 70 to 75 per cent of people phoning in to radio and TV shows that I have done supported liberalizing the law with regard to physician assistance in dying.
It is time that this Parliament acted on this issue. It is rare that such a large proportion of Canadians are of a common mind about anything, especially an issue of this importance. It is time that this House responded to that very large majority view.
Over the last little while we have seen some tragic cases in which Canadians have had to plead to courts to have the permission to end their lives when they are living in intolerable pain and suffering.

Private Members' Business
There was the Nancy B. case in which it was felt necessary to have court-sanctioned permission for the physician to remove Nancy B. from her life support systems. Surely that sort of trial and turmoil for a patient, for a person living in great pain and great suffering toward the end of their life is undignified and should not be required in Canada.
Most recently, we have seen the case of Sue Rodriguez. I do not think anybody in this Chamber or many Canadians would want to have to go through the same torture she is going through in trying to get permission to ask a physician to assist her in ending her life when she concludes that her quality of life is such that she can no longer continue. She wants to have the opportunity to have the assistance of a physician to end her life, and we know what she is having to go through in order to obtain that.
Surely that is undignified in Canada. Surely it is uncaring and uncompassionate. Surely it is something that we have to do something about.
We have been called upon to act in this matter by the Chief Justice of British Columbia, Chief Justice McEa-chern, who in a decision which considered the issues carefully and with great compassion, argued that while in individual cases a court could respond appropriately the issue should be dealt with at the level of national public interest because, after all, that is where it needs to be addressed.
We are really asking for people to have the right to choose to end their lives under very restrictive circumstances. We are also asking for physicians who assist in that act in that compassionate and caring situation to be protected from criminal sanction.
The Chief Justice of British Columbia has urged this House to act, and this House has the opportunity to respond positively to the motion of my colleague from Port Moody-Coquitlam.
At the moment we have a situation in which the only restraints on physician assistance in dying are contained in physicians' codes of ethics. We know that across this country patients are assisted in the dying process by physicians every day. We also know that physicians are concerned about the repercussions of potential criminal
sanction as a result of responding to their patient's wishes. It is time that we allowed those physicians who act on their patient's wishes out of compassion and caring to do so without fear of criminal sanction.
It would be a progressive response for this House to respond positively to the member's motion. I congratulate the member on bringing this issue to the House of Commons. It is not every day that controversial issues are raised by members of Parliament.
It is appropriate that the House of Commons is faced with these difficult issues because it is surely a question for society as a whole to respond to, and this House through its legislative powers and responsibilities lays down what is appropriate for society in many respects.
Is it not the time for us to say that people who are nearing the end of their lives and whose quality of life is unacceptable to them because of the physical or emotional pain and suffering they face, because the prognosis is so negative and because they want to speed the dying process, should have the right to do so? Is it any longer critical for Canada to say that they cannot do that, that they cannot ask someone to assist them in doing it, and that if they do then the person who assists them will be liable for a criminal offence?
I believe our society has progressed to the level at which we can say that it is not a reprehensible act that should be punished by a criminal penalty and that we should respond in a caring and compassionate way to people like Sue Rodriguez, Nancy B. and the many other Canadians faced with the same tragedy who merely want the opportunity to end their pain and suffering.


Mr. Speaker, I am rising in opposition to this motion. I do not think it is a progressive measure to enshrine into the law of this land a motion that supports euthanasia.
I want to begin by saying that I have deep respect for the member who sponsored this motion and for the member for Saskatoon-Clark's Crossing whom I just finished listening to. My opposition to this motion not only results from a personal experience but also from views that I have heard from many of my constituents.
I would like to begin by talking about a personal experience that has caused me to believe that this is not the right way to go. It was the spring of 1988 and I was returning from a holiday in Cuba. I came off the plane
.(1115)


and my wife said to me: "Your father has been in the hospital for the last three days and you should go down and see him". I said: "Well, when you say it like that there must be something serious going on here". She said: "He is not well".
From the tone of her voice I knew that something was up and so I rushed right away to St. Michael's Hospital in Toronto and I walked into the room. My father was a very young man, more like a brother than a father to me for most of our relationship. I said: "Well, Dad, what's up?" He said: "I have three months to live". He had lung cancer. After I asked him, in moments of frustration, if he had examined all the options-there are great doctors and great research in this country and in the United States-he said: "Listen, while you have been away I have gone through all of this. The prognosis is that I have 90 days, maximum 120".
After a couple of hours of real bitterness and frustration on my part I then went through an experience in which over the next 90 days I watched my father die. He moved from his home in the country, from the farm, into our home, into my own bedroom, for about 60 days before we moved him into the palliative care unit at St. Mike's. I believe that those days, not only for him but for me and many others around him, were very special moments even though we knew his life was coming to an end.
The first reaction by those of us who are not suffering is obviously one of care and compassion for the person. We do not want them to continue suffering, and naturally we do not want to be someone who is promoting that. That is not where I am coming from.
I believe that life, even in its most painful form and at its loneliest moment, is something precious and meaningful and not for us to make a judgment on as to when it should end, especially when the judgment is to be made by someone who in his or her natural state is low and in pain.
The last hours in the personal experience I had were very meaningful to my father who was in pain. Today we have lots of medication and support systems, but even those last hours were precious and meaningful. Had we co-operated in perhaps a moment of weakness on his part when he might have said he wanted his life to end today or next week, we would have denied him a joy that
Private Members' Business
he experienced right to the end. I certainly know we all experienced that joy.
I hear this from many other people who have had similar experiences. It is not that we do not have compassion for a person who is suffering. It is not that we do not care about a person who is suffering. Viktor Frankl is probably one of the best psychiatrists in the world. He developed a therapy called logotherapy where one can develop a meaning and a satisfaction at that most desperate moment in one's life. Somehow we should be putting more support, more time and more energies into that type of support system for a person who is facing the prognosis of death, of eternity.
For that reason, the reason being that life for me is precious and should be supported with all the forces and energies we have, we should not be the ones who support an interruption of it. For that reason I cannot support this bill.


Mr. Speaker, I welcome the opportunity to stand for a few minutes to offer some comments on this issue. I commend the hon. member for Port Moody-Coquitlam for bringing it before the House.
It is an issue about which Canadians will have to give an awful lot of thought over the next few months and indeed few years. I am sure my hon. friend in bringing the issue forward has done so because he has a great interest in justice issues as well as moral issues. This issue has been brought before the public recently by the Rodriguez case in British Columbia. That may or may not have stimulated my hon. friend to bring forward his motion, but I notice he spoke to that case in his remarks. We are also mindful of the case in Quebec a year ago.
The issue in my judgment is a very complicated one. There are a lot of issues, moral and otherwise, connected to it. Members will no doubt speak to that.
I am not sure in my own mind that there has been a lot of public discussion about this issue. When there is an emotional news story it captures public attention for a period of time and then goes away. Sometimes it leads to the kind of serious debate now before Parliament on this very controversial subject. Sometimes the story comes, goes, passes and is forgotten.


Private Members' Business
I would hope the Rodriguez case would stimulate the kind of serious discussion I feel we need on this issue in Canada. In a way it is a right to life issue, not dissimilar in the moral context to the issue of abortion and the issue of capital punishment. By contrast those issues have received perhaps too much discussion in this country. I know all members of Parliament have received representations on those subjects for many years.
I have to say honestly that I have not received calls from any of my constituents on this issue. It is not because my constituents do not feel strongly on the issue. It is because I think the issue has become the subject of very extensive and serious dialogue among Canadians.
This has to happen because it is an issue concerning changes in medical technology and our ability to keep people alive. Sometimes I think we have developed it almost to an industry of keeping people alive no matter how miserable they may be. As a nation we will have to face that issue just as it is being faced in other countries.
We are all mindful of what is going on at the present time in Holland and the legislative changes taking place there. With all due respect, Holland is not Canada. This is a moral issue about which Canadians will have to speak. I fully expect as on all moral issues that Canadians will be as divided on this one as they are on the issues of abortion and capital punishment.
However what is important is that we start to focus serious public attention on the issue, and that is where the motion by my hon. friend does a very important public service to Canada. Whether this motion is voted up or voted down, what is significant is that the issue has been brought before Parliament. For that I thank him and I commend him.
I do not know what my own position on it is. A lot of people will be motivated perhaps by their religious beliefs. The Bible is fairly explicit: Thou shall not kill. Of course the implication of this motion is to kill. Perhaps it is a mercy killing. Perhaps it is relieving somebody of misery from which there really is no end except through death. Indeed arguments can be made in that context.
As for myself I am not motivated totally by that concept so much as by the mere issue in my mind of whether it is appropriate for government in a democratic country to authorize citizens to kill each other. I know that is not put in the context meant by my hon. friend's motion, but that certainly is one interpretation.
What is the role of physicians in society? If we go back to the Hippocratic oath or whatever, is it to save life or is it to relieve pain? I am not a physician. I am not going to tell physicians what their perception of their role should be. I guess what I am saying is that it is premature for Parliament to speak on this issue. I honestly do not feel that there has been adequate debate in Canadian society on this issue. After that debate has taken place, perhaps a Canadian view will emerge that favours a move in the direction they are going in Holland. Perhaps Canadians will say no, that it does not reflect the value important to us as Canadians.
Each member of this House will have to decide ultimately where he or she stands. Most I assume would want to know what their constituents' feelings are with respect to the issue. Because somebody is for or against capital punishment or abortion would not automatically determine whether he or she is for or against establishing some legislative basis by which euthanasia should occur.
In summary I want to say it is important Parliament and government examine the issue and what the views of Canadians may or may not be on the subject. It would be premature for Parliament to vote in an overt direction of saying it is ready to commit Canada to a legislative basis for euthanasia. I do not think Canadians are ready for that decision to be taken.
I think it would be premature for Parliament to make that decision. Therefore I will be voting against the resolution though I do so with some reservation. Again, when I make that point I know my colleague from Port Moody-Coquitlam and my colleague from Fraser Valley East spoke very eloquently on this. A private member's bill has been brought before this House on the same subject. However, I think at this point it is premature. We need to give this issue more focus. The


day will come when Parliament will in a serious legislative way have to face this issue and make a decision.


Mr. Speaker, the motion before us of my colleague, the member for Port Moody-Coquitlam, is an important one. It is an issue which I am sure causes a great deal of anguish and personal difficulty to many members of the House.
Any subject that deals with personal, spiritual, religious and moral values is always a difficult issue to deal with in a public place and in a permanent way and Parliament is within the limits of any human act. It is one institution that is called upon to render those kinds of judgments.
It is important to recognize first of all the subject of this motion:
That, in the opinion of this House, the government should consider
the advisability of introducing legislation on the subject of euthanasia
and, in particular, of ensuring that those assisting terminally ill
patients who wish to die not be subject to criminal liability.
It is important to recall that there are at least four members of Parliament from both sides of this House, the member for Port Moody-Coquitlam, the member for Saskatoon-Clark's Crossing, the member for Fraser Valley West, and the member for Burnaby-Kingsway, who have motions along these lines before this House. There may be other members.
It suggests to me and I would suspect to most other members that there is a feeling in our communities that Parliament should be asked to render a careful judgment on this issue in the not too distant future.
There is the case in British Columbia of Sue Rodriguez who suffers from ALS, Lou Gehrig's disease, and her struggle before the courts and on the cameras. It has brought to the attention of the Canadian people, from one end of the country to the other, the very agonizing choices people feel compelled to make.
In the speech of my colleague whose motion this is he pointed out: "People used to die at home mainly of communicable diseases. They received good palliative care from concerned family and friends. Now people die in hospitals surrounded by batteries of life-saving equipment. Seventy-five per cent of deaths are caused by chronic degenerative diseases such as cancer, heart disease, AIDS, strokes and Alzheimer's disease".
Private Members' Business
The change in circumstances that paragraph outlines has taken place in the issue of life or death. People choose to continue to exercise their option and their choice for life has changed dramatically over the last number of years, even in the last very few years.
I know people in my area, and others from whom I have heard by letter and by phone, generally have indicated they feel that technology has changed to such an extent that some of the religious values that at one time were imposed and generally accepted now have to be called into question. The nature of life itself has changed because of our technology.
I suggest that people are asking us to act with care and flexibility. The courts are asking us to act and render a decision. Surely in light of the knowledge we have, our consciences must demand that we act. How we act is a different question. But if we move ahead with this motion and if it were to receive the support of this House, all that it asks us to do is to consider the advisability of introducing legislation on the subject of euthanasia. In particular this would be to ensure that those assisting terminally ill patients who wish to die would not be subject to criminal liability.
Surely, unless we feel a very strong religious compulsion to deny people the choice in any circumstances, we ought to be able to give our support to such a motion. It simply asks the government and, through the government, Parliament and all Canadians to seriously consider the many issues and come up with the most carefully designed legislation and guidelines that we can.
We are not an ecclesiastical court. If we were, we might be justified in saying no, but we are not. Therefore we must ask ourselves whether we have the right to deny a human being who, being of sound mind, determines that at a given point of artificially induced continuation of life they wish to terminate it rather than continue in a state of existence they find unbearable. I suggest the answer is no. We do not have the right to deny them that choice, a choice that only they should make.
If they have requested technical or medical assistance in exercising that free choice and that choice has been witnessed after a period of extensive personal and family counselling which we have a right to insist upon, then they ought to have that choice.


Private Members' Business
I am concerned, as I am sure many members are with the possible consequences of precipitate decisions taken by individuals but we can deal with that. I am also concerned by the potential misuse by third parties if we should begin on this road but we can deal with that. Speaking for myself, however, I have no right to impose my religious or spiritual values upon others of sound mind in the exercise of their judgment on what is surely the most important and most personal decision a person may feel compelled to make: the question of life or death.
In concluding my remarks I simply say again that it is an agonizing and moral choice, such as are the issues of capital punishment and abortion. However, we must remember that we are not an ecclesiastical court. We are the freely elected spokespersons of the Canadian body politic. They are concerned with this decision. They are concerned with its implications.
All that my colleague has asked in this motion is that the government address it without deadlines. Government should address it clearly and carefully, with the maximum of public input and consideration for all of those values we hold to be important.
I most sincerely urge all of my colleagues to give their support to this most important motion before us.


Mr. Speaker, I will probably find this somewhat difficult to express, but I must speak on this issue. It is a moral issue as far as I am concerned. It is not just an ordinary situation.
I suspect that most of us in this House have at one time or another had a loved one who suffered seriously in his or her dying weeks or months. That is very difficult to accept and it is very difficult to forget.
However, we were given no guarantees when we were bom, when we were conceived. We were not told that we were going to be happy all our lives or that we would suffer no pain. It seems to me that if we deviate from what I have studied and what I have learned with regard to life and its sanctity, then I cannot vote for a motion that would take a human life. To do so, to me, would be murder. To do so, to me, would be a betrayal of all of the things I have tried to stand for in my personal and public
lives. Therefore, if this motion comes before the House for a vote, I will naturally be voting against it.


Mr. Speaker, I was not intending to rise today but I think it is important that we acknowledge the assistance the hon. member for Port Moody-Coquitlam has given us by bringing forward this motion. I have difficulty with the motion and I believe that most members in the House will have difficulty with the motion.
The whole question of euthanasia is something we are always faced with. It really is a question of whether, as a House, we are going to change the rules with respect to suicide and assisted suicide and where we would draw the lines. I suggest it is not a matter I am prepared to come out and be affirmative on at this stage. I believe my constituents would want to have a fair amount of opinion on the matter. One of the advantages of this debate is at least it brings it to the attention of the public.
I want to make a couple of comments. First, it has always been our law that a person is not entitled to take their own life. If that is the case, then they should not be entitled to have someone else take it for them. After all, life itself is sacred and the taking of life is itself a crime. The issue is whether the taking of life should be made not a crime under certain circumstances.
Surely it is as much a crime to take the life of someone who may be terminally ill as to take the life of someone who says: "I no longer wish to live in this world, will you assist me in killing myself?" Where do we draw the line between terminally ill because of disease or terminally in trouble because of a state of mind?
Where do we draw the line as to what is the real state of mind of someone who is terminally ill physically? Do they really want to end their life or do they only temporarily want to end their life as they go from one state of mind to another? Are they really suffering or are they in communion with God and with the hereafter, as we may want to put it? I do not know. We do not know. However, we have for a long time in our society provided that a person is not entitled to terminate their life and not entitled to have someone else terminate it for them.


We have all had members in our families who have been exceptionally ill. They have not known where they were and have clearly been in pain. It is so easy to pull the plug and kill them.
I do not think we have the right. We would certainly have to think very long and hard if we were to change the way our society has developed with respect to the right to life and the belief in life. Belief in life is a sacred and continuing thing.
I will be voting no on this motion today. I think it is important we discuss the matter but I do not think it is the time today for us to ask the government to legislate on euthanasia.


Mr. Speaker, I intend to use only a few minutes of my speaking time and leave the rest for my colleague, the mover of the motion.
I welcome this opportunity to support my colleague's motion, and I think there are three questions we should ask ourselves. First, do we need this kind of legislation? I think it is clear that we do. Just consider Sue Rodriguez and Nancy B. in Quebec, and so many other cases we have seen. At the very least we should consider the advisability of legislation on euthanasia for people who ask for assistance in bringing about their own death when their condition is such that they would rather die than go on living.
The second question: Is this proposal premature? I do not think so. We may not talk about this problem all the time, but it is nevertheless a very real problem in society today. It is the kind of problem that requires legislation or at least a discussion on its advisability. Gallup and other polls have shown that nearly 70 per cent of respondents agree there should be legislation on euthanasia. I do not think it is premature.
The third question, to which I think we must answer yes, is: Will there be a positive impact as a result of this legislation? The answer is a resounding yes, because if we look at the Netherlands which passed its own legislation, there has been no abuse whatsoever. What we want above all is to be able to get a medical decision and ensure that the last wishes of a patient who would rather die than go on living are respected.
Private Members' Business
Do we need this kind of legislation? The answer is yes. Is it premature? No. Will it have positive consequences? The answer is yes.


I just wanted to point out that when the hon. member for Port Moody- Coquitlam is recognized, he will be exercising his right to reply and will be the last speaker on the motion. The hon. member has four minutes, until 11.52 a.m., when the proceedings on this motion are to expire.
The hon. member for Port Moody-Coquitlam. [English]


Mr. Speaker, I will be brief. I want to say first of all that I am very proud of this House of Commons. This is the third hour of debate and the level has been superb. It has been thoughtful, passionate and relevant from all sides, no matter which of the two positions people have come down on. It has been a marvellous debate.
I just mention the hon. member for Don Valley West and my colleague, the hon. member for Okanagan- Shuswap, who made passionate speeches about their own personal life. We have heard very moving speeches, today from the hon. member for Broadview-Greenwood, and the other day from the hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell.
This issue belongs in Parliament. Two judges in the Supreme Court of British Columbia said that we should deal with it. We are dealing with it and this House has to have the courage to deal with it.
I think the vote this evening is only the beginning. No matter which way the vote goes, and I hope it will be a free vote and members will vote different ways, it is the beginning of Parliament facing this issue.
I crafted the motion delicately so that it would be open to the government to bring in legislation. There is a direction and it is a direction in the way that it was referenced to the Rodriguez case.
Parliament is dealing with it and I predict a future government will have to deal with it. If this government does not deal with it, eventually the people will expect Parliament to deal with it.
We cannot expect sick and dying people to be dragging themselves through the courts. Parliament has to deal with this issue. It belongs in Parliament. That is what we


Supply
are here for. We have to deal with these tough issues. We have got to do it.
I have had comments from my riding. I want to read a letter: "I am writing to you to thank you for the support you are giving Mrs. Rodriguez in her request to die. I have a prostate tumour which could put me in a position where I am not much use to anyone and suffer a great deal of pain. This is what happened to an older brother of mine. His was not an easy cross to bear".
These are real issues. These are family issues. Our families and our friends have had to deal with these issues. Medical technology allows people to hang on and on and they die in hospital surrounded by tubes and new equipment. People want to die with dignity. That is what the issue really is.
I want to quote Tom Harpur, writing in this weekend's The Toronto Star:
The truth is, Sue Rodriguez's fight to have doctor-assisted suicide made legal under certain specific, clear and out-in-the-open conditions is not just for her own sake but for the lives of all who may well one day find themselves in a similar situation. In any other field, those who endure loneliness, suffering and abuse for the sake of others are called heroes, heroines or saints. It's time we rallied behind her and recognized what this woman is really all about.
It is an issue for all of us. It is an issue we are going to have to deal with. It is an issue we are dealing with. It is a family issue. It is a life issue. It is the quality of life and the quality of death.
I will end the debate with a quote from Sue Rodriguez to this Parliament. She said:
Despite my losses, I do not want pity. All I ask of my fellow Canadians is understanding and compassion. Understanding that they too may some day be in a position similar to mine.


It being 11.52 a.m. pursuant to Standing Order 93, the time provided for debate has expired.
Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


No.


All those in favour of the motion will please say yea.


Yea.


All those opposed will please say nay.


Nay.


In my opinion the nays have it.
And more than five members having risen:


By unanimous consent, the recorded division is deferred until six o'clock p.m. later today.


SUSPENSION OF SITTING
It being 11.53 a.m., the sitting of the House is suspended until noon.
At 11.53 a.m. the sitting of the House was suspended.


The House resumed at 12 p.m.
Today being the final allotted day for the supply period ending March 26, 1993, the House will proceed, as usual, to consideration of and concurrence in supply bills.

In view of recent practices, do hon. members agree that these bills be distributed now?


Agreed.


That this House condemns the government for its policies that have stifled economic growth, destroyed Canadian jobs and exacerbated the recession.


He said: Mr. Speaker, today I want to talk about my hope for the future, my faith in the Canadian people and my desire to bring about change in this country. I want to speak about those Canadians who work hard, pay their bills, raise their families, help their communities, hope for a better future and are committed to Canada.
In the past four years I have travelled extensively throughout the country listening to the voices of the people. What I have heard is of great concern to me. Canadians are losing hope. Four years ago almost to the day I stood in this place to deliver my first speech as a member of Parliament. I spoke then about an agenda for change, an agenda that challenged this generation as previous dilemmas challenged our forefathers.
Four years ago I saw that agenda in the face of the single mother who with her children was compelled to stand outside the local food bank for their daily meal. I saw it in the apprehension felt by the factory worker who understood the personal threat imposed by Mulroney's insensitive free trade deal. I saw it in the inequity of Conservative budgets which have unfairly overburdened our working middle class families while rewarding the chosen few. I saw it in the attitude of our young graduates who despite their academic achievements still encountered a cold and indifferent world. I saw it in a country as rich as ours in people with no shelter, no food.
In 1993, four years later, there are more food banks than ever before. Workers are still waiting for adjustment programs and the promised job opportunities. The middle class is paying more taxes than ever before. Young people are faced with rising unemployment and there are more homeless people. We are living in very difficult times.
I could for the next while talk about the government's inability to reduce the public debt which now stands at $422 billion. It was $168 billion when the Conservative government took over. I could also speak at length about the inability of this government to address the deficit challenge, the human tragedy of over two million people on welfare, and 1.6 million people on the unemployment rolls. [DOT]
I could speak about the declining after-tax income of the average Canadian family, the 38 tax increases imposed since 1984. I could perhaps speak about the
Supply
325.000	manufacturing jobs we lost since 1989, the
206.000	bankruptcies we witnessed since 1990 and the one million Canadian children who live in poverty.
These are all very depressing statistics. However do not forget that this situation did not happen by accident. The Conservative government made some very basic and fundamental economic policy mistakes, among them fighting inflation at all costs, high real interest rates, a high Canadian dollar and a free trade agreement without adjustment programs.
Today I want to talk to you about something different.
I want to talk about how we can turn this country around.
As a Canadian born in the 1960s, a husband and father of two young children, I am much more concerned about the future than the past. It is for this reason I will concentrate my remarks on the future of this country and the Liberal Party's approach to deal with the future. There is no question a new approach is required.
A Liberal government understands that in the emerging global economy everything is mobile: capital, factories, even entire industries. The only resource that is really rooted in a nation and the ultimate source of wealth is its people. The only way Canada can compete is to have the best educated, best trained work force in the world, linked by the most advanced communication and technological infrastructure.
As a nation we cannot afford to have 30 per cent of our high school students drop out before completing high school, at a rate of 100,000 a year. That is one million in a decade. We have over 400,000 young people unemployed at a time when over 300,000 jobs go unfilled because we do not have people who possess the required skills.
In order to develop these skills we will work with the provinces, business and labour to establish a national apprenticeship program, provide tax incentives for on-the-job training and create a Canada youth service.
Our priority will be to focus on our country's resource, our people. That means investing in people and providing Canadians with a comprehensive adjustment strategy. Canadian workers who have been displaced by the forces of globalization are prepared to adjust and desperately want to. We are committed to helping them because we feel that government has a role to play where market forces fail. Our responsibility is to provide


Supply
workers with opportunity, and in turn their responsibility is to make the most out of those opportunities.
Developing an effective adjustment program strategy is absolutely necessary as we attempt to develop a life-long learning culture that can easily adapt to change.
We must restore Canada's industrial capacity. Three hundred thousand jobs have been lost in recent months and those jobs are not coming back. We must create an environment to inspire confidence so that new jobs are created. Government must reward the people who work hard at creating new jobs, starting new businesses and investing in our people and plants. We must shift the focus from shrinking the economy to expanding the economy. That means jobs with futures in industries with futures.
The small and medium sized business sector, which creates most new jobs, is an integral part of our strategy. We will help small businesses with initiatives to assist them in bringing new products to markets, to speed up technology acquisition and to export to markets they have never before considered. In conjunction with the provincial governments, we will work toward reducing the regulatory burden which creates unnecessary problems for our small and medium sized enterprises.
We will also challenge Canada's major banks to give small business a break and to develop concrete measures to help small and medium sized businesses get the financing they need.
We would further reform the Small Businesses Loans Act and make it easier for small business to get equity financing. This will help small business and the economy to grow.
I fundamentally reject the solutions of yesterday. I favour policies which speak to the future. I believe in government activism, which means I reject the laissez-faire policies of the Conservative government. While I accept that government cannot do everything alone, it does have a role in fostering stable economic growth.
While we actively participate in the economy, we will commit ourselves to a strict and accountable set of fiscal guidelines. We need fiscally responsible government. If the debt escalates much further it will paralyse future governments.
We are committed to fiscal responsibility. We are committed to unwavering discipline in controlling federal expenditures. We are committed to holding off on new programs that do not contribute directly to the promotion of economic growth and jobs. We are committed to a reduction in the deficit both in absolute terms and as a percentage of the gross domestic product. We are committed to reducing the national debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.
These commitments will move us in the right direction and will help us restore the confidence required in the international community. We must address the debt and deficit problem. It is a national priority.
As a party that has been a leader in the area of global trade we are committed to open and fair trade. The major focus of our trade policy is to secure and increase access to world markets while at the same time securing a better life for our people. Consequently our approach to the negotiation of future trade agreements must be one that deals effectively with human concerns like environmental standards, health and safety standards and working conditions.
The Tories have proven in two trade agreements that they cannot negotiate in Canada's interest. The NDP on the other hand refuses to accept the global reality.
We understand full well that one in five Canadian jobs is directly dependent on exports and we certainly want to be leaders in global trade. Our approach is distinctively different. We are deeply concerned about the development of regional trading blocs. If a North American trading bloc is emerging we recognize that Canada must play an active and independent role in defining that bloc.
We took the position that NAFTA negotiations be utilized to improve the terms of the FTA. Instead the NAFTA in the form agreed to by the government would completely scrap the working group on subsidies and dumping. In addition the government did not correct the energy giveaway in the FTA. The Conservatives have allowed Mexico protection for its energy resources that Canada itself does not have.
A Liberal government will seek changes to both the free trade agreement and the North American free trade agreement. We need a subsidy code, an anti-dumping code, a more effective dispute resolution mechanism, agreed upon labour standards, agreed upon environmental standards and the same energy protection as Mexico.


In addition, the Mulroney government has yet to introduce any adjustment assistance program to help Canadian workers and firms adapt to greater trade liberalization.
As well as improving the terms of NAFTA, Canada should be working with other countries in the western hemisphere to minimize dominance by larger and stronger trading partners. We would work to build common western hemisphere institutions to provide political, demographic and economic counterweights to the United States.
While we must seize opportunities to trade in the Americas, we would not turn our backs on the rest of the world. A Liberal government would work to expand trade in the Pacific basin and with the European Community. We support the Canada-Japan 2000 forum co-chaired by Peter Lougheed which has recently chartered a course for expanding trade with the Pacific basin.
Throughout its two terms in office, the Conservative government's economic agenda has been dominated by free trade. We recognize that trade policy is no substitute for sound domestic policy. Monetary, fiscal investment, training, education and research policies go hand in hand with trade policies. The Conservatives have failed to recognize this reality.
We need a fair tax system. No one can promise across the board tax cuts. That would be irresponsible. We can commit ourselves to tax fairness for every Canadian, especially to middle-class families who have borne the brunt of the tax increases since 1984.
The Conservatives have attacked us for our position on the GST. Here are the facts. The Conservatives have raised or imposed new taxes on individuals 38 times since 1984. The GST, the most hated tax in Canadian history, was imposed on Canadians without proper consultation. It was imposed on small business despite its opposition. It was imposed on the provinces over their objections.
The GST destroyed public confidence in the fairness of tax systems. It has expanded the underground economy. It has undermined consumer confidence, lengthening and deepening the recession. It is complex and costly
Supply
for small business to administer and takes an army of bureaucrats to collect. It has made federal-provincial fiscal relations much more difficult.
We are left to clean up their mess. Unlike the Conservatives, who railroaded the GST through Parliament, we will implement a replacement in full consultation with individual Canadians, the business community and the provinces.
Unlike the New Democratic Party which thinks it can cancel the GST and have $15 billion fall from the sky, we acknowledge that the only responsible course is to replace the revenue brought in by the goods and services tax.
In the first session of a new Parliament, we will mandate the all-party Commons finance committee to consult Canadians and provincial governments on all the options to the current GST and report to Parliament within 12 months. Our objective is clear. We must find ways to generate equivalent revenues that are fair to consumers, easier to administer for small business and promote federal-provincial co-operation.
I think it is fitting that I started my remarks by talking about the future. I would like in my concluding remarks to speak about young people.
In the past four years, I have travelled throughout Canada listening to the voices of our young people. Instead of the unlimited future that my generation was fortunate to have, today's youth are confronted by diminishing opportunities. They are frustrated by an education system that cannot help the 100,000 high school students who lose hope and drop out every year. This is a system that fails to address the high illiteracy and innumeracy rates that afflict our youth. Young people worry about not having the skills needed to find jobs in tomorrow's knowledge-based economy and they cannot understand why the federal government will not provide them with opportunities.
Young Canadians are deeply troubled by this state of affairs. They are desperate for a new vision for Canada, a vision that will restore their hope and show them a future.

Supply
The Leader of the Opposition and the Liberal team are determined to restore hope and offer a future to Canada's youth. We are determined to get our economy moving again, rebuild Canada's economic leadership, create highly skilled, highly paid jobs and reclaim our future for our children.
The Liberal team will create a society that will be able to compete globally, protect the environment and provide opportunities for its members. Young people are an important part of our vision. That is why the Leader of the Opposition and the Liberal team are committed to giving them the tools they need to build the future and the new economy, an economy where young people will be full partners.
We call on all our economic partners, business, labour, all levels of government, communities and individuals to join us in a program to eradicate illiteracy and innumeracy among our youth. We call on them to help us promote co-operative education, to encourage work place training, and to help us develop national educational strategy goals.
The Liberal Party is committed to establishing a national apprenticeship training program and to creating a Canadian youth service dedicated to environmental protection and responding to the social needs of our community.
Like all Canadians, young people understand that the future is not a gift, it is an accomplishment. Together we know we can make a difference. Together we will make it happen. It is clear that we are ready to govern and bring about the type of positive change that Canadians are requesting.


Mr. Speaker,
I listened with interest to the enormous program of the Liberal Party. It sounded to me like a rehash of some of the things we determined to do back in 1983 and 1984 and have accomplished.
I was wondering if the member could tell us so we could get it on the record for once whether or not his party is in favour of carrying on with the free trade agreement currently in place with the United States.
After he answers that, could he also tell us whether or not he will be voting in favour of a North American free trade agreement that may include Mexico and eventually
Chile, Argentina and Brazil? Does he want to have, in other words, a party addressed to world trade even if that trade is just North American trade? To what extent is his party a free trade party, or is his party a protectionist party?
Will he please tell us where he stands and where his party stands?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for Mississauga South for his question.
I can simply tell the hon. member that we stand on the side of Canadians, on the same side as all those workers who lost their jobs in the manufacturing sector and are still waiting for this government to do the honourable thing, to introduce adjustment programs for those workers who have been displaced.
In a very short time this government has clearly indicated to Canadians that it does not stand on their side. We have been waiting for years for those programs to be implemented.
As for the question of-


Answer yes or no.


I see that the hon. member for Mississauga is getting quite excited about the speech which I delivered which clearly outlined the direction we are going.
Unlike the past, they were waiting for an opposition speech that was just going to oppose their policies. I tell them, and I do not think they are ready for this, that there is a new Liberal Party out there that is going to promote modem policies as I have done today.
On the issue of global trade, let us not kid ourselves. Something that is fundamental to Liberal economic policy is the fact that we are great believers in global trade. We will take all measures necessary to bring about the type of export trade and relationship between Canada and other western hemisphere countries whereby Canadians will have jobs for the 21st century.


Mr. Speaker, I thought I had heard everything here in this House, but I must say a renaissance of the Liberal Party with the help of Camil Samson or Don Johnston stretches the imagination somewhat.


I had a meeting not long ago with the Quebec Food Retailers Association, and I would like to ask the hon. member a question about the tax on cigarettes in Canada.
Food retailers in Quebec are complaining that the excise tax on cigarettes in Canada is so hig