Madam Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to 41 petitions.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Preceedings.]


18TH REPORT OF CANADIAN NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION
Madam Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 34, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the 18th report of the Canadian NATO Parliamentary Association concerning the NAA annual standing committee meeting which was held in Portugal from March 26 to 28, 1993.


Madam Speaker, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the report of the legislative committee on Bill C-103, an act to provide for the repeal of the Land Titles Act and to amend other acts in relation thereto, with one amendment.


Madam Speaker, I have the honor to present the 89th report of the Standing Committee on House Management, concerning the members at large to serve on committees in the Departmental envelope.
With leave of the House, I intend to move for concurrence in this report later this day.
[Editor's Note: See today's Votes and Proceedings.]


Madam Speaker, with leave of the House, I move:
That the 89th report of the Standing Committee on House
Management, tabled earlier today, be concurred in.


Does the hon. parliamentary secretary have unanimous consent to put the motion?


Madam Speaker, in view of what has transpired on previous occasions I wonder if the parliamentary secretary would just give a brief description of the contents of the report as he did yesterday with regard to the 88th report.

April 29, 1993
Routine Proceedings


With great pleasure, Madam Speaker. The 89th report of the House Management Committee recommends changes to the list of members at large to serve on committees in the Departmental envelope. In a few moments the Clerk will read the changes proposed in this 89th report.


If consent is given and since the report has been presented, I will ask the clerk at the table to please read the text of the report so that members may know its contents. I will then put the question on the motion.


Motion agreed to.
Madam Speaker, in this first instance I have petitioners who ask the government to remove the GST on books and learning materials. They point out that it has hurt students, artists, publishers and the industry generally. They also point out that it does not contribute to increased productivity of our society in general. The petitioners feel it is counterproductive to the development of Canadian society.


Madam Speaker, in this other petition the petitioners ask Parliament to ensure that the CRTC carefully regulates the use of foul language in radio and television programming.
The petitioners also ask that the whole aspect of violence be examined carefully. They point out that it is not necessary to do that in order to entertain or inform, whether it be in English, French or any other language.

In the latter case, I have petitioners who are asking Parliament to ensure that proper language is used on radio and television. They also ask Parliament to ensure that acts of violence are not allowed on radio and
television because they say it often goes against what they are trying to do in raising their families.


Madam Speaker, I also have the honour to rise pursuant to Standing Order 36 and present a petition signed by numerous Albertans, principally from Calgary but from Edmonton and other centres as well. I just noted now one person from Helena, Montana. It must be the first time that person at least has ever petitioned the Canadian House of Commons.
In any event, the petitioners point out that if implemented the North American free trade agreement will result in further restrictions being placed on the ability of Canada's federal, provincial and territorial governments now and in the future from assisting Canadian industry, conserving Canadian natural resources for Canadian benefit and advancing needed social programs.
Therefore the petitioners call upon this House to reject the proposed North American free trade agreement. They recommend to the government that it use the termination clause to end the Canada-U.S. Free Trade Agreement.


Madam Speaker, I have here 10,000 signatures on a petition in memory of all children who have suffered at the hands of others.
We have formed this petition to stress our belief that the penalties in respect of child molesters and child murderers are far too lenient in this country.
The petitioners strongly request that this petition be heard as the people's voice to reinstate capital punishment for child murderers and to stiffen penalties for child molesters. If we cannot protect our children from people who commit these heinous crimes, then who will? The petitioners call upon Parliament to enact legislation against this type of offender.
I also have a series of petitions from thousands of other petitioners in memory of Shannon Dawn Morris-sette-Bird and all children who have suffered at the hands of others. This petition is also a request for capital
April 29, 1993

punishment for child murderers and stiffer penalties for child molesters.
I have another series of petitions from thousands of petitioners in memory of Corinne "Punky" Gustavson and all children who have suffered at the hands of others.
The petitioners have formed this petition to express their beliefs that the penalties with respect to child molesters and child murderers are far too lenient in this country. They strongly request that this petition be heard as the people's vote to reinstate capital punishment for child murderers and to stiffen penalties for child molesters. If we cannot protect our children from the people who commit these heinous crimes, then who will? Therefore the petitioners call upon Parliament to enact legislation against this type of offender.
Again I present petitions from thousands of petitioners in memory of Corinne "Punky" Gustavson. They strongly request stiffer penalties for child molesters and capital punishment for child murderers.
All those petitioners are from Calgary, Alberta.
These petitioners request that convicted sex offenders be housed with the general prison population and not be given special treatment.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Madam Speaker, Question No. 455 will be answered today .


With respect to the "Canada, Buy Into It" campaign, (a) what was
the total cost of phase I of the campaign (b) what is the projected
cost of phase II of the campaign (c) how much of the cost of phase I
on the campaign was attributed to paid advertising?


With respect to the "Canada, Buy Into It" campaign, the breakdown is as follows:
Routine Proceedings
(a)	$4.45 million total cost phase I
(b)	$.672 million total cost phase II
(c)	$3,864 million attributed to paid advertising phase


Madam Speaker, would you be so kind as to called starred Questions Nos. 428 and 446?


Questions Nos. 428 and 446.


Madam Speaker, I ask that starred Question No. 428 be printed without being read.

*


With respect to Hollis Harris, president of Air Canada, is he (a) a Canadian citizen and, if not, what is the status of his immigration (b) is he qualified to work in Canada under the Designated Occupations List for Immigrants (c) is he working in Canada under any section of the free trade agreement and, if so, what section?


The Privacy Act prevents the Minister of Employment and Immigration from discussing the details of immigration cases. Therefore, the government cannot provide the details of Mr. Harris' status other than to say that the Minister of Employment and Immigration is responsible for ensuring that all foreign workers working in Canada meet the requirements of the Immigration Act as it pertains to foreign workers; that responsibility has been fulfilled in this case; and, Mr. Harris' employment does not come within the auspices of the free trade agreement.


Madam Speaker, if

Routine Proceedings
starred Question No. 446 could be made an Order for Return, that return would be tabled immediately.

*


Since November 21,1988, what has been the total procurement by the federal government (a) in the province of Manitoba (i) per year and (ii) by department (b) in the United States (i) per year and (ii) by department?
Return tabled.


Madam Speaker, I ask that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Point of order, Madam Speaker. Before the parliamentary secretary asks that all questions stand I want to indicate to you, Madam Speaker, and to the parliamentary secretary that time on the clock is running out. The House is due to close on June 23. There was Easter break when the House was adjourned for approximately seven days.
However, when one looks at questions on the Order Paper I just want to bring to the attention of the Chair something I think is quite important. Questions Nos. 307, 317, 318, 326, 386, 387, 404, 406, 421, 422, 423, 446, 448, 464 in the name of the hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond and question No. 465 are well over a year old.
As the appropriate identification to the question so states, the response is to be provided within a 45-day period. We have gone well beyond that on many of the questions. I raise this point along with other questions Nos. 467, 472, 475, 484, 486, 488, 493, 502, 503, 504, 505 and 506.1 raise these matters while keeping in mind that we do have a short period of time. Members wish to have answers to those questions. The government is grossly negligent in not responding to those questions, which within the purview of the Standing Orders it must do within 45 days.
A number of the questions that I referred to, and I want to be fair to the parliamentary secretary, have just been asked in the last number of weeks by members on this side of the House.
I wish to serve notice to the parliamentary secretary that I will raise this subject matter again on Monday of next week. I would hope that at a bare minimum the questions that have gone well beyond the 45-day limit will be responded to by the appropriate ministers or the appropriate action pursuant to the Standing Orders will be followed by the parliamentary secretary.
I realize the parliamentary secretary is a very active, learned and experienced colleague. He has done a superb job as a parliamentary secretary. However he better start talking to those members on the front bench who have been ragging the puck. I would hope that he would get some answers forthwith from these ministers who have been grossly negligent, unlike previous ministers of the Crown. I refer to the former Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources.


I am glad this was a point of order and we did not enter into debate.


Madam Speaker, briefly on the same point because I am sure the hon. member from Winnipeg would like to get on with the opposition day motion, and we would all love to hear him.
The fact is this matter that is raised by the opposition House leader deserves more attention than it has been getting. I would remind the Chair and hon. members that the 45-day limit was put in place at the time of the reforms of the House and the Standing Orders in the mid-1980s as a kind of trade off in return for members not being able to ask as many questions as they used to be able to ask.
There was a time when members were able to ask an absolutely limitless number of questions and the government at that time felt this was putting a burden on them. The trade off was that members would not be able to ask an infinite number of questions but in return the questions they did ask would be answered within a defined period of time.
What do we do about a government that shows routine contempt for the Standing Orders in this respect? These questions are to be answered within 45 days. That is what the Standing Orders say. It poses a problem for parliamentary reform when we run into a situation in which the government simply ignores not only the spirit of parliamentary reform, it has done that, but the letter of parliamentary reform. It is actually required to answer
April 29, 1993

these questions within 45 days and it is routinely not doing so.
I would ask the Chair to take this matter under consideration and perhaps at some point consider making a comment as to what the House should do to protect itself from a government that so blatantly neglects and acts in contempt of its own Standing Orders.


On the same point of order, Madam Speaker. I have a few comments on the same topic. I think it is unacceptable for the government not to answer within the prescribed period as ordered by Parliament. I would like to know whether the Chair could perhaps explain to the government that there is no double standard. If the Standing Orders apply to individual members, they should also apply to the government.
Ministers are members of Parliament, and if they want Parliament to respect them, they should obey the Standing Orders as ratified by Parliament.


The Chair takes this very seriously. In fact, the matter was referred last week to the Standing Committee on House Management, and I expect we will get a reply very shortly. Meanwhile, the parliamentary secretary has enumerated a list of questions which have been answered today. Regarding question No. 446, which happens to be one of the questions referred to by the hon. member for Cape Breton-East Richmond, if the House agrees to have this question made an Order for Return, that return will be tabled immediately.
As for question No. 428, with leave of the House, it will be printed without being read. Is it agreed?


Agreed.


Shall the remaining questions stand?


Agreed.
Supply


That this House condemns the lack of leadership, the evasion of accountability and responsibility and the inadequate credibility of the Minister of National Defence that have exposed members of the Canadian forces on difficult and sensitive peacekeeping missions to unnecessary vulnerability and that contribute to the gravity of national fiscal problems by her persisting in the acquisition of enormously expensive equipment designed for missions no longer contemplated.
He said: Madam Speaker, one of the phrases that I have long remembered was said by Thomas Paine, the American revolutionary. He said: "We have in our power to begin the world all over again. The birth day of a new world is at hand". It is probably the ultimate axiom of our time when we see the incredible changes going on. I have thought of those words many times when I have watched the change in the cold war, the major progress we have made in reducing nuclear weapons, the enormous sense of human aspiration as it breaks out around the world to establish new democratic market economies and political systems. It has been a really exhilarating time.
History has a way of playing cruel games. This new freedom has also brought with it some tragic and gut-wrenching events. We have added the awful words "ethnic cleansing" to our vocabulary. We have seen scenes of genocide and massacres we thought we would never again witness in this world.
There is no question we are living in a time that has to bring out the best of leadership in defining a new world order, in defining a new sense of the rule of law, and redesigning and rethinking many of our basic premises and policies and ways of doing things.
Canadians have been right at the epicentre of these changes. As a result of our past experience and the reputation that was won by a variety of diplomats and governments and peacekeepers we have been seen as a country that is able to respond to these new challenges and has been asked to do so.

April 29, 1993
Supply
It also means that some very tough choices have to be faced. The world is not the way it was. The kind of interventions that are taking place in Bosnia, Cambodia and Somalia have created a brand new generation of peacemaking requirements. We really are living in what the historians would call a defining moment when there must be a new set of judgments, ideas, and directions formulated. It must be done in openness, in a democratic way, with the full consent of the governed so that people will understand what those changes mean, the implications for them, so that they are able to support and provide a consensus in terms of moving into this area, at times a treacherous but fascinating world, and so that Canada can play a role of distinction, honour and integrity.
What have we received instead? We have received paeans of praise to the old way of doing things, retrenchment in the status quo, evasion, arrogance, indifference, and sometimes downright lying and misleading.
It has been one of the worst moments for Canadians in terms of looking for leadership and getting instead a ducking, bobbing, weaving, hiding attitude from the Minister of National Defence. She is not prepared to face up to either the responsibilities of office or the greater responsibilities of leadership.
Consider the case of the fundamental priorities of our defence security system. It did not take analysis of great depth to recognize that increasingly the responsibilities of peacemaking will hit the centre of our security strategy and the ability of Canada to respond in a multilateral international way to a variety of conflicts, both military responses and responses of our aid workers and others to help build societies, which is very much at the centre of our foreign policy requirements.
That means a basic rescaling of where we spend our money, where we put our priorities, how we train our people, and where we allocate our resources. Look at what has happened. In the defence policy announced a short while ago we cut our ground forces by 35 per cent to the point where we do not have adequate people on the ground to supply and maintain a peacekeeping presence.
At the same time as we were cutting our peacekeeping commitments, as we were slashing our capacity and ability to meet these new demands, what was the government doing? It was committing $5.8 billion to a
helicopter program that was designed 10 years ago, when the cold war was at its height, to chase Russian subs across the north Atlantic. Probably the only thing Russian subs are carrying these days is grain from port if they can get the fuel to move.
Have we made any attempt to rethink that problem? Have we made any effort to reanalyse that kind of priority to determine whether there should be a more effective and more realistic contemporary way of spending our defence dollars? Not a bit.
The defence minister, the apostle of the new politics, has been most vociferous in saying that we shall not change, to the point where she has become ludicrous and absurd.
The other night on television in an interview when asked why it was that we were now spending $5.8 billion for a piece of military equipment that no longer had a use she said that we have to be concerned about those subs the Iranians have.
That really made Canadians shudder. All of a sudden we are going to spend $5.8 billion scarce defence dollars, because the Iranians may be buying a sub or two and Canada must stand on guard, as opposed to all of the other defence demands around the world which are crying for it. What is the defence minister doing? We are having to call up reservists and quickly put them into precarious situations with 90 days' training and without the proper equipment. These helicopters have become the sacred cow.
This apostle of the new politics who has said that we must open up our eyes and ears to listen refuses to listen to the majority of Canadians who in the majority say that we should stop that program and do something better with the money.
This is the new politics? It is a kind of inbred arrogance that says: I do not have to listen to anybody because I know what is best. Is that the new kind of new politics we can expect? See no evil, hear no evil, think no evil. Do not think at all is the byword of the new politics.
It is far more serious because we are putting our reputation and our capacity on the line because at the present time we have not undertaken any kind of open debate in this House about the new peacekeeping priorities. We have not had any kind of position paper from the government on what it means in terms of reallocating defence expenditures. We have made no
April 29, 1993

effort whatsoever to involve Canadians in a series of debates about Canada's international role. We must ask ourselves tough questions about how far and in what way we want to commit our troops and under what kind of rules and under what kind of mandate.
Look at the result. We commit troops in Bosnia into a highly vulnerable situation with a confused, ambiguous mandate, mission statement, rules of engagement, in effect making our troops a trip-wire for some possible attack. We say we will respond then, instead of ensuring that in this horrible, nasty situation taking place in Bosnia with the massacre of thousands of people, we are not prepared to invite Canadians to become part of the debate, to say we have some tough choices. The old humanitarian peacekeeping mission is not working.
What is the point of bringing supplies to people if they are going to be bombarded the next day and massacred in their beds? Everybody is ducking that responsibility, the Europeans, the Americans. Everybody is shying back.
It is shameful we are not prepared to engage Canadians in a serious debate about these crucial issues. Nothing has been brought into this House. The minister has refused to come to the committee. It has been a total stonewall.


That is not true. She is coming to committee on May 5.


Next week. We are told she is coming to speak on the helicopters and not on peacekeeping.
We are in a situation where the minister of defence has to be on top of the job 24 hours a day because our troops are in the most vulnerable, precarious position that they have been in since the Korean war, and where is the minister?
How often is she in the House, a day or two a week maybe? She says she is on the end of the phone. Members opposite should have heard the chief of defence staff yesterday when he was announcing the terms of the new board of inquiry. He said: "I have been thinking about things I should have been doing for the last couple of weeks".
Supply
When he was asked: "What does the minister think?", he said: "I don't know. We did not have a chance to talk about it." Is that continual examination and brainstorming and responsibility? The minister was off stomping and shopping somewhere, getting those photo ops out.
I have no quarrel with the minister running for the leadership. That is her business and she is welcome to it. But if it means that you avoid the responsibilities of your office in the meantime, you are not living up to your oath of office. That is something I do not think Canadians are prepared to accept.
Now we have a board of inquiry which will be looking at things like training and preparation for our peacekeeping troops. We were asking questions in this House several months ago of the same minister.
The minister at the time said: "Observe. There is no need to do that. Absolutely ridiculous. We are all set. Don't worry about it." Now we have a board of inquiry examining those very same questions because the minister was negligent in addressing those issues right at the beginning before the troops were sent. She neglected to establish rules of engagement, mission objectives and proper and adequate information for those troops to make sure the decisions are the right ones.
We have to go through this board of inquiry and all the information and problems that it has given rise to because the job was not done when it should have been done.
This brings me to the issue of Somalia which has been an ongoing matter of real concern to the troops themselves, the Canadian people and Parliament. All it needed was honesty. All it needed was being forthright. All it needed was to be up front. All it needed was to say: "We have got problems here. Here is how we are going to handle it."
Instead, what do we get? We get evasion, misdirection, negligence and now as we found out yesterday, being downright misled. I want to make sure that people understand this, that there can possibly be no greater sin committed by any minister than not telling the truth.


Evidence?

April 29, 1993
Supply


Here comes the evidence. Yesterday in the testimony of the chief of defence staff he said that on March 18 the minister of defence was informed that an investigation looking at the criminal aspects of a death in a Somalia camp was under way, that is a homicide. The minister denied categorically in the House that she knew anything about any homicide taking place.


That is untrue.


That is not untrue, we have the records to prove it.


When did she deny that?


That is exactly the case. For two weeks the minister said she knew nothing about it but she knew there was an investigation going on. The investigation report says, and the House leader probably is not aware as he is not about most things, of the exact statement that was being made-


You are wasting the time of the House. If you think you will be elected on that issue, you're gone.


We are gone, sure. We are really gone, that is right.
The minister said deliberately that she knew nothing about any homicide investigation. The chief of defence staff said yesterday that on March 18 the minister knew that an investigation had been requested to look at the criminal aspects of a death in Somalia, homicide in other words. There are two different versions, the minister's and the chief of defence staff's. From my point, I believe the chief of defence staff, not the minister.
This motion is specifically on the question of whether at a very precarious, sensitive time in the history of this country we are getting the kind of leadership that we need and deserve. Canadians deserve honesty from their ministers, but the government is seized by what I would call the Al-Mashat disease. When in trouble, duck. When put to the law, hide. When asked to live up to responsibilities, evade. Those are the real issues that are at stake.
How do we ensure that our forces that are valiantly and courageously performing their duties around the world are getting the leadership at the top that they
need? We know the House leader and others have attempted to characterize this as an attack on the troops. They are trying to say-


That is what it is.


But they are wrong. Clearly it is an attack on the lack of confidence, leadership and forthrightness of the minister who should be on top of that portfolio.
The primary responsibility of the House is to make sure that the decisions being made are the right ones, so they can be carried out the right way; that we do not have people put in vulnerable positions and have no one at the other end of the phone; that we have a serious debate in the House so Canadians know what is going on; and that we do not have a serious question about where we put our defence resources to get the most effective use, all which have been denied, all which have been turned back. Canadians deserve to have an open system of government, an honest system of government and a democratic system of government.
We have received none of those qualities of leadership from the present minister of defence. Instead, the problems were made worse and the kind of a clear mandate has not been given to our Armed Forces to make the changes that are necessary, to prepare themselves for the new world that we are in and to make sure that Canadians are in agreement with that. It would seem to me that even at this very important time with all the political sky-jumping going on around us we cannot afford to have these sins of omission on the part of the minister. We cannot afford to have absentee leadership. We need to have people who are working, thinking and reacting on a full-time, effective basis.
Members opposite said that this was all because there was a leadership campaign. They are wrong. The only problem with the leadership campaign is that apparently it distracts the minister from her real duties. However, it does not mean to say that at any other time the same minister would not be under the same questioning by members of this House, by members of the public and by members of the media because of a lack of performance of duty. It is just that the opportunities to raise those
April 29, 1993

questions are so seldom and infrequent. That is also part of the problem.
The resolution we have put forward is an attempt to open up that debate, to start raising a series of questions on the following: how we can redesign our defence and security policy to meet new conditions; how we can begin to try to focus the minds of this government and this minister on the real responsibility, which is this important defining moment in the history of this country in terms of the role we play around the world; and how we can provide a significant leadership and direction to the United Nations and to the peacekeeping forces in a way that will continue the honour we have won in the past.
However, we cannot do it and it will not happen unless Canadians are involved, unless this Parliament is fully apprised and unless we have a government with something serious and significant to say.
We hope the debate today will just be the beginning of other debates. We can open this question up for a full-scale examination so that ultimately we can define for this country an effective defence and security role in a way that will enjoy the consent of the government.


Madam Speaker, I would like to make two comments with respect to the remarks of the hon. member for Winnipeg South Centre and then pose a question to the member.
First, let me comment on his remarks respecting the EH-101 helicopter contract. For those who do not know, in 1982 and 1983 the Liberal government of the day considered the Canadian Patrol Frigate Program. Very much a part of that program was the addition of a helicopter component once the ships were operational. The decision was made then that the Patrol Frigate Program and the acquisition of helicopters went hand in hand. That is simply an extension of the equipment of our Canadian naval force.
There are important industrial spin-offs to places like the Halifax shipyards. Across this country workers will benefit from this contract. More important, it is endorsed by every military official in the country as far as I am aware. My question is for the hon. member. Does he stand in contradiction to our military experts who have requested this additional equipment to make the Cana-
Supply
dian patrol frigate operative and effective as a defensive force? Does he stand in contradiction to those officials?
Let me make this second comment and ask an additional question with respect to the control of the Canadian forces. For decades, for generations, we have had in force in Canada the National Defence Act enacted by this very Parliament of Canada. It is the governing law with respect to the Canadian Armed Forces, as my friend the admiral is well aware. That is a code of discipline and conduct different from that which prevails in civilian lives across this country. For generations as part of the British parliamentary tradition we have used legislation to control and govern the Canadian forces.
Is the member now suggesting that we throw out the processes and procedures of the National Defence Act, that we forget about the code of military conduct and discipline and that we apply a totally different code of conduct to the activities of those who are in extremely difficult situations in places like Somalia at the request of the Government of Canada and for the benefit of the Canadian people? Does he want them now governed by a different code of conduct? Is he going to simply throw out the rules and introduce ad hoc judgments in light of what he sees as a difficult situation not for him but particularly for the Canadian Armed Forces?


Madam Speaker, I would be glad to reply to the questions. In part the answer was contained in the member's opening statement.
The decision on frigates was made in 1982, 11 years ago, when there was still a cold war on and when the priority objective for our security under the NATO arrangement was to provide anti-submarine patrols in the north Atlantic.
I want to inform the hon. member that things have changed since then. The Berlin Wall has come down. The Soviet empire has disintegrated. Russian subs are tied up in their home fleets, not moving. We just announced a month ago a new program of aid and assistance to the very Russians whose subs we thought we are going to try to chase. Yet there has been no attempt whatsoever in the meantime by this government to come to grips with that new reality. It is still looking

April 29, 1993
Supply
back 10 years ago. It is looking through the rear-view mirror.
All we are asking is for the minister of defence to say that there is a new reality. Let us open it up. Let us review it. Let us see how we can reconfigure what we have. That is what is called leadership, not sticking one's head in the sand, not looking through the rear-view mirror, not having some nostalgia for the old cold war but saying it is time to make some change. Let us do it in an open, honest, analytical way, especially at the same time they are cutting substantially from the ground forces so that they cannot provide the proper operational complement to meet the new requirement under the peacekeeping challenges that we face.
The government under the Minister of Finance is slashing away at the defence budget, which he has a right to do, but instead of saying let us cut back on equipment that is obsolescent in terms of today's reality what do they cut back? They cut back on the very component of our defence establishment that is in high demand: our capacity to provide peacemaking, peacekeeping troops. That is what was cut by this government, not the helicopters. That is why we are saying it is about time we had a minister of defence who understood those questions.
On the second question, yes, the National Defence Act is the basic law that governs our armed forces. If the hon. member read section 45 in terms of setting up boards of inquiry, he would see there is nothing in section 45 that says they must be secret. Nothing whatsoever says that a board of inquiry must be secret. It is at the discretion of those who set up the board as to whether or not it is secret. There is nothing in the act that requires it. It is at the discretion of the minister and the minister decided to make it secret.
We have heard the defence from the minister and the House leader that it had to be secret because it might impinge upon criminal investigations. The chief of the defence staff in his statement yesterday said it would not involve criminal investigations. It is going to involve questions of training, deployment and preparation. It has nothing to do with the criminal aspects of it.
Why is it not going to be open so that Canadians can understand the preparation, training, development, lack of discipline and so on that is there? That argument was
simply shot out of a silo by the admiral. The government is going to have to find another reason to defend why that inquiry must be secret.
When we look at the statements made yesterday by the two military men from Somalia who have raised these charges publicly we realize they have put their careers on the line. They have taken a very courageous stand because they saw something they thought was wrong. They deserve an open inquiry. They deserve to have the open forum in which their testimony can be properly looked at without fear of a closed door intimidation occurring. That is the basic principle of justice.
The Supreme Court has said it is publicity and the glare of the public that make for good law and good judgment, except, it appears, when it comes down to investigating this very serious matter, when the apostle of the new politics says it is better to have an inquiry behind a closed door.


Madam Speaker, the hon. member seems to think this inquiry will somehow not do its job, will somehow be corrupted and will produce irrelevant results by having its inquiries in camera.
I wonder if he would identify which of the members of the inquiry he feels would be involved in these inferred partisan inappropriate activities. He is suggesting it cannot be done honestly.
Is it Major-General de Faye, Brigadier-General Addy, Brigadier-General Emond, Professor Harriet Critchly or Mr. Stephen Owen? Which of those, or all of them, is he in essence accusing of being incapable of conducting a proper inquiry because they would keep it in confidence?
I could not believe he would stand and say that it is appropriate for physicians who have made observations in respect to the homicide to discuss the details in public while a criminal investigation is going on. I find it absolutely astounding that the hon. member would say such a thing. Does he not understand the criminal justice system, the presumption of innocence, the fact that people might at the end of the day have to face a court and have rights? The hon. member's partisanship is a little extreme. Attacking the minister is understood in
April 29, 1993

partisan rant but he is going after the credibility of these individuals.
I heard him say that the frigates are irrelevant today. I wonder how he would patrol or exercise sovereignty over the largest coastline in the world. The frigates are irrelevant without helicopters.
Finally I wonder why he said the Berlin Wall came down. It came down in 1989. In 1990 a committee of this House on which his party had two representatives unanimously recommended that the Sea King helicopters be replaced as planned and as soon as possible to avoid costly stop gap measures. Is the Liberal Party in favour of costly stop gap measures? Has it denounced the members of its party? This decision was taken after the Berlin Wall fell.


Madam Speaker, first let me point out that I do not have the same paranoid personality as the hon. House leader who always thinks that somebody is up to no good. That has been the hallmark of this member in his career in the House. He always looks for the worst in individuals.
What I do believe in and what I do insist on is an open process. We should make sure that it is a open democratic process. I thought the minister of defence felt the same way. I read with great interest her opening statement when she announced her leadership. "This is going to be new politics: open, democratic".


Transparent.


Transparent. On the very first test of that commitment she shuts it down and goes back to the old Tory way of making decisions behind closed doors and trying to manipulate the process along the way. It has nothing to do with the individuals, but I will let the hon. minister worry about that because he enjoys that kind of ad hominem attack. That is his style. It is not mine.
Second, let us talk about the position of the doctors. Apparently the minister still does not understand that the terms of reference released yesterday do not include the criminal investigation. It was deliberately excluded. The chief of defence staff said they were looking at training, problems of discipline and potentials of racism. Those were the issues the chief of defence staff identi-
Supply
fied as needing to be looked at. Presumably the gentlemen who had the courage to speak out were not allowed to do so through official circles. They wrote to their wives and spoke out to the media. They would still like the same forum.
One final answer in completion. I never said the frigates were irrelevant. I said the defence policy of the government was irrelevant. That is what I said. There is a very big difference. Instead of trying to come to grips with the transition and required changes to adapt and respond, to have better coastal patrol, to have better drug interdiction and these kinds of things, and instead of re-equipping and redesigning the logistics of our defence forces and training to meet that, there has been nothing said.
We are still buying 35 helicopters to intercept Russian subs tied up in port waiting, I suppose, for the Prime Minister's assistants to get to them so they can buy some fuel. That seems to be a total contradiction of what the government is about. It does not know what the left hand is doing or what the right hand is doing.


Madam Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity afforded by the motion being put by my colleague to the right to have a discussion in this House about defence policy in general. For the last 10 days or so we have been hearing a lot of specifics and we will have further opportunity for discussion, perhaps during this debate and certainly during Question Period.
The debate gives us an opportunity to discuss in more general terms the conduct of the defence department and the way in which it is being administered by the government and the current Minister of National Defence.
Several of my colleagues from the defence committee are in the House. Sometimes I do not agree with them, but I do want to say it is a very valuable committee of this House and I think it is working hard to tiy to get at some of the issues. As this Parliament is in its final days, one of the things that might be reflected upon for the next Parliament of Canada is that the committees could be made far more valuable and useful and could be consulted by the government much more effectively. I have noticed that many of the decisions of the committee are

April 29, 1993
Supply
m
simply disregarded by the government and it proceeds to make decisions without the benefit of the work done by the committee and the members on the committee.
The recent events in Somalia reveal however some very serious problems in the administration of defence policy and the operations of the defence department in this country. It reveals that the Department of National Defence and the minister first of all have completely mishandled the public information side of the issues that have emerged recently in Somalia.
Earlier my friend gave some details. We have had some in Question Period. The fact remains that the information has come out in dribs and drabs. There clearly has been a cover-up and I suppose that is a pejorative term. What it means is that the public of Canada and the government itself and conceivably the minister, and certainly Parliament, have not been given information that is critically important to the various functions that we have, including the overseeing of that very important and very difficult job that our peacekeepers are doing there.
Even now we are not sure we have all the information and the inquiry that is being set up is not going to get at the heart of the matter as I see it.
The department and the minister have also, as is revealed in the Somalian affair, failed to impose effective discipline on our forces there, putting the Canadian peacekeeping reputation at risk and at jeopardy.
It was very clear from last night's television that the soldiers who were interviewed did not understand the rules of engagement and the rules applying to the use of force as described yesterday in Ottawa by the chief of defence staff. Right on television they were misstating the rules. They do not understand them. From all accounts the discipline in that area has probably fallen apart simply because the government failed to act, starting as early as February 17 when it had information that it should have moved quickly to deal with and that appears to have led to at least two or three tragedies that followed. There is the failure of the government to impose discipline and the failure of the Department of National Defence.
The department and the minister have also clearly failed to train and prepare our forces for that very difficult assignment. That is coming out in the information we are hearing day by day.
General MacKenzie and other witnesses coming before the defence committee, including the chief of defence staff, have tried to suggest to us that there is no need for training beyond combat training. I will talk about that a little more extensively in a minute.
It is now clear that that is a complacent, misguided policy which has led to tragedy in Somalia and has led to a blot on the reputation of our peacekeepers. This government and the Minister of National Defence are specifically responsible to Parliament and to Canada for that failure.
What we have seen with the Minister of National Defence since she took on those responsibilities in January is something which we in British Columbia had seen before.
Contrary to the image that has appeared in certain photographs of the minister, she is cautious, inflexible, conservative, rigid and defensive in her approach to her duties.
In the last four months we have not seen one significant initiative toward change in the administration of the Department of National Defence at a time when the change facing the world, particularly the defence forces, is dramatic.
When she took over her office the very first statement she made was to adopt the policy of the purchase of the $5.8 billion EH-101 helicopters. She did not blink for a second. She adopted that and has rigidly defended it ever since in the face of mounting evidence that not only the Canadian people disagree with it but it is a misguided and stupid policy.
There has been no change in the spending patterns of the department. It talks of cutbacks but the reality is what is being cut back are hopes and expectations of additional spending. The Department of National Defence is one of the few departments which has continued its spending unchanged through all the recent budgets of this government.
There has been no review of defence policy initiated by this minister. There has been no change in defence policy, defence structure in face of reports of the Auditor General, in face of clear change. Of the other countries throughout the whole western alliance and throughout the world, this is the one Department of National
April 29, 1993

Defence which, under this administration, is staying rigid and unchanged in the face of changing world conditions.
We hear nothing, not a word about base closings. The government has had a report from the defence committee and from a special task force established by the previous Minister of National Defence to set out a system for closing bases. It is universally conceded that we have far more bases than we need now in the face of changing conditions.
Yet the government and this minister have failed to make one single step in the direction of closing bases and rationalizing expenditures in that area. All sides of this House at least as evidenced by the defence committee agree in a non-partisan way on a system that should be used. That is, communities should be consulted. Communities should be supported where bases are to be closed.
There should be a logical step-by-step process that we all agree to for closings to happen in the interests of the Canadian taxpayer and rationalizing defence. We agreed on a system to take it out of partisan politics but the Minister of National Defence has done nothing. Not a step has taken place under her administration.
There has been no restructuring whatever of Canadian defence forces under her administration, not even a start. We are still living with a structure of defence forces established in the Second World War and probably its antecedents go back to the First World War. There is not a change.
There have been no changes in purchasing policy despite a savage attack by the Auditor General on the system within the Department of National Defence. This has cost Canadians billions of dollars in wasted money. There is no change in the reserve program.
There is not a sentence of change in the reserve program despite an equally savage attack by the Auditor General on that program. He said that it is misconceived, the training is hopeless, the purchase and planning of it is hopeless and the product at the end is not what we are supposed to be getting for the billions of dollars.
In face of evidence before the defence committee, he said that a reserve program conceived during the period of the cold war makes no sense in a period in which our primary role of our defence forces is peacekeeping. We have quite different requirements. There is no sense of
Supply
innovation or change. If it is happening internally, we are certainly not hearing about it and the products are not different.
What we say is that the government must move. Let me try in the limited time that I have to indicate some areas where I think we need change. Let me first focus and take a little time on peacekeeping training. What it appears has been happening is that within the Department of National Defence the line is we do not need any changes in peacekeeping training, that we have these wonderful peacekeepers who have done a good job for the last 40 years and we do not have to change and try to understand in a new way what training should be.
Yet we also have within the Department of National Defence some voices which have tried to get across a different perspective. We also have had voices from outside, such as General Clayton Beattie who has come before our committee and come before the Senate committee and made a powerful case that there must be a new approach to training and orientation of our peacekeepers, that combat training alone is not enough, that the limited orientation that we give to our defence forces when they go overseas in difficult situations is not enough.
As I said earlier, the Somalian events have demonstrated the tragedy that has occurred because of the rigid, inflexible and complacent approach of the Department of National Defence.
Let me quote the minister herself in what I 