Mr. Speaker, March 5 to 11 is "Save your vision week" in Canada. This is an annual event to foster public awareness sponsored by the Canadian Association of Optometrists.
This year's theme is: "Hope is in sight. Good vision and literacy: There is a clear connection".
Many Canadians are unable to read simply because they do not see well. Children do not learn to read if they cannot focus on the blackboard or on the words in a book. One child in six has a vision problem, which makes it hard for him or her to learn and to read. The key is prevention. Early detection of vision problems really helps improve literacy. It has been established that three quarters of adults with literacy problems also have vision problems.
I join, therefore, with the 2,800 optometrists in Canada to remind Canadians that good vision is a must for good reading.
Mr. Speaker, the president of the Public Service Alliance called upon his members yesterday to make a decision on a work-to-rule action and other pressure tactics to protest the public service cuts.
The Liberal government refuses to enter into a constructive dialogue with the Public Service Alliance. Yet the alliance has stated its willingness to join forces with the government to ensure better management of staff reductions and to maintain services to the public. In deciding against negotiations and partnership, the Liberal government is in essence denying the very principle of collective bargaining.
With a work-to-rule action by civil servants on its hands, the government is now reaping what it has sown. All Canadians and Quebecers will pay for the contempt displayed by the Liberal government.
Mr. Speaker, it gives me great pleasure to recognize the mayor of Dauphin, Manitoba, Mr. Inky Mark.
This gentleman took upon himself to compile resolutions from approximately 200 municipal governments from all provinces and territories. These resolutions support the principle that all Canadians now and in the future shall continue to enjoy the lawful, responsible and safe use of all firearms.
He took these efforts upon himself because he felt the voice of the tax-paying, law-abiding citizen was seldom heard. He has consistently asked for the establishment of a national firearms advisory council whose members would be made up of a cross-section of non-partisan people.
I would like his message to be heard loud and clear and to pay tribute to his tireless efforts on behalf of responsible recreational firearms users.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has finally admitted with his budget that his government has no intention of maintaining national standards in our health care system. Today the Prime Minister was quoted as saying: "Social programs such as medicare will revert to meeting more basic needs as they did when they were started half a century ago".
Fifty years ago someone in my family suffered from a major illness. We were fortunate as a family that it only took us 10 years to pay off the bill. Fifty years ago others lost their farms and businesses for reasons of health and health expenses. Because of that they also lost hope for the future.
It is clear now that this government is intent on doing away with national standards with the national health care system. In fact rather than building Canada, the Prime Minister has con-
firmed today the government has set us on a course to dismantle this country.
Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to announce to the House that, as of next September, the Simcoe County Board of Education's intensive French language program will be offered at Bradford West Gwillimbury elementary school.
Five out of the six major centres in Simcoe county now offer a bilingual curriculum to their English speaking students. This year, over 500 elementary and secondary school students registered for the program, which is in its sixth year. I wish to congratulate the school board, its staff, and above all, the parents of Simcoe county for participating in this program and for their contribution to bilingualism in Canada.
The intensive French language program is another example of the importance placed on the French language in Ontario and elsewhere in Canada.
Mr. Speaker, today I rise in the House to congratulate Mr. Michael Barnes, a constituent from my riding of Timiskaming-French River.
Mr. Barnes is a teacher and historian who has chronicled the history of northern Ontario. This region is as rich in exciting history as any other in Canada but is often ignored by the majority of Canadians.
Mr. Barnes has researched our history from the early days of the gold camps and the construction of the railways. In all his works Mr. Barnes has celebrated the resilient and rugged people who came from across Canada and the world to settle and prosper in this bountiful region of our great nation.
Northern Ontario and indeed Canada should be proud of Michael Barnes. I call upon all members of Parliament to join me in congratulating him today as he rightly becomes a member of the Order of Canada.
Mr. Speaker, today I would like to bring to the attention of this House a long and storied Canadian tradition, that of the lighthouse keeper. Recently, Transport Canada announced that the remaining lighthouse keepers in Canada would be replaced by an automated system.
Today I would like to speak about two historic and treasured stations located at Cape Spear and Cape Race in my riding.
Cape Spear, Newfoundland is the most easterly point in North America. It is where man meets the sea. The lighthouse station at Cape Spear, in operation since 1835, is still manned by a lighthouse keeper. Yet on the 160th birthday of this lighthouse, Transport Canada wants to have machine meet the sea at this historic point.
The second lighthouse, Cape Race located in southeast Newfoundland, has for decades been the reference point for European ships bound for the Americas. Since 1856 European ships have approached a manned lighthouse station at Cape Race.
I urge Transport Canada to re-examine its decision regarding the demanning of these lighthouses. One hundred and sixty years of history and tradition-
Mr. Speaker, in a move of extraordinary cynicism, the Liberal government has decided to impose what amounts to an immigration tax. The members of the Bloc Quebecois deplore this virtual tripling of the fees required upon submission of an immigration application. In addition to the basic $500, an adult immigrant will have to pay a tax of $975 to have his application considered.
This government, which has loudly proclaimed its openness to immigration, which wants to boost its citizenship profile, which produces one overblown speech after another on Canada as the country of choice for immigrants, is practicing the exact opposite of what it preaches.
The message sent by this fee hike could not be clearer: Canada is no longer interested in taking in immigrants, and is particularly uninterested in those with low incomes. It has decided to close the door and exclude those whose contribution has been and is still so important for Quebec and Canadian society.
Mr. Speaker, next week is Vision Awareness Week in Canada. It is an annual public awareness campaign sponsored by Canadian optometrists. This year's theme is "Hope is in sight. Good vision and literacy: There is a clear connection".
Can you imagine if all of us who wear glasses went without them for a day or even half a day? That would put us in the position of those I am addressing today.
Many Canadians cannot read well because they cannot see well. Children will not learn to read if they cannot focus on the chalkboard or on the words in a book. One in six children has a vision problem.
Not all vision problems are easy to detect, therefore the earlier problems are detected and corrected, the better. Prevention is the key. The fact is that three-quarters of adults with poor literacy skills also have problems with their vision.
As literacy critic for the Reform Party, I join Canada's 2,800 optometrists in reminding Canadians that good vision is necessary to become a good reader.
Mr. Speaker, now that the federal government has tabled its 1995 budget, a tough budget that will suit the wishes of international investors, it is time to get down to the serious business of controlling our financial destiny.
The federal government must instruct the Bank of Canada to bring the effective interest rate down from the present superficially high level. A lower interest rate will result in increased job growth for Canadians. It will greatly assist small and medium sized businesses.
Interest rates should be brought down by at least 2 percentage points. One result of this move would be lower interest payments to foreign investors. Another would be that small and medium sized businesses could afford to borrow money for expansion, thereby creating jobs.
We need a made in Canada interest rate. We have to control our interest rates in order to achieve a balanced budget in the long run.
Mr. Speaker, this year, International Women's Day falls during our week off. That is why I rise today to pay tribute to all Canadian women from coast to coast.
Let us look around us. There are now 54 women sitting in the House of Commons. We have come a long way since Agnes McPhail became the first woman elected to the House of Commons in 1921; since the judiciary committee of the Privy Council finally recognized, in 1929, that women were persons in the eyes of the law; since Carine Wilson became the first woman appointed to the Senate in 1930.
Women have left their mark in all their fields of activity despite the obstacles that keep springing up in their way, simply because our society is still tainted by widespread and offensive sexism.
To our mothers, sisters, wives, daughters, colleagues and friends, to all women in Canada, I say thank you.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to pay tribute today in the House to Mr. Rodger Dusky from my riding in London, Ontario.
On February 16, Mr. Dusky received the Prime Minister's award for teaching excellence in science, technology and mathematics. This award recognizes teachers across Canada who have had a major proven impact on student performance and interest in these areas. Mr. Dusky was nominated for this award by one of his former students.
Mr. Dusky has been a teacher for 32 years and has been teaching science and chemistry at London Central Secondary School since 1987. Most notable in his achievements is "The Mentor Connection". This program twins high school students with professionals from the community in order to support and enhance the autonomous learning projects of the students.
This program has been a tremendous success locally. Mr. Dusky is presently in the process of trying to expand the program so more students can benefit from this unique opportunity. It is through these types of initiatives and teachers such as Mr. Dusky that our children have the skills and knowledge to effectively compete in the constantly changing workplace.
Mr. Speaker, in the past two days, the Bloc member for Louis-Hébert and his colleague from Chicoutimi have missed their chance to make amends for the racist and discriminatory remarks they made about Quebec's cultural communities.
After their leader had rebuked them, these two members found nothing better to do than issue releases stating that they regret any embarrassment their remarks caused the Leader of the Opposition and any harm they have caused their colleagues in the Bloc Quebecois or those involved in building a sovereign, open and profoundly democratic Quebec.
The truth of the matter is that the two Bloc members are probably not sorry they made such blatantly racist and discriminatory remarks about our cultural communities; they are just sorry their party and the separatist cause may have been hurt by their remarks.
How can the people of Quebec believe in their plan for an independent, supposedly open and profoundly democratic Quebec, when in fact the very people responsible for promoting this plan, like the two hon. members opposite, have no regard for the most fundamental of principles?
We demand no less than formal apologies to be made in this House to our fellow citizens newly established in la Belle Province de Québec.
Mr. Speaker, when he tabled his budget, the Minister of Finance said, with a smile on his face, that the era of flexible federalism had now arrived. However, we had to be suspicious of that smile, which was more akin to the kiss of Judas.
How can the minister be serious about flexible federalism when he is considerably limiting the financial margin of the provinces by reducing transfers, while at the same time maintaining national standards for welfare, health and post-secondary education?
After promising to reduce overlap and duplication between the two levels of government, the minister has now decided, despite all the opposition, to keep control over a sector as vital as manpower training.
In its editorial of today, Le Devoir says that current federalism ``manages without us and clearly declares itself to be imperial''.
This is what federalism has become.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to present the third instalment of the Liberal's copy Reform awards.
Today's winner is the member for Vancouver Quadra whose personal proposals for pension reform are suspiciously similar to the Reform blue book. At a time when the cabinet has approved a two tier pension plan that will make millionaires out of defeated politicians, it is indeed outstanding to have a government backbench MP suggest that the treasured gold plated pension plan be based on the principle of matching funds.
Imagine a Liberal actually saying that MPs should live by the same rules as other Canadians, collecting their pensions at age 65, or that they should be forced to tighten their belts like those living outside planet Ottawa. Reformers have been calling for these changes for four years.
I commend the member for Vancouver Quadra for joining our cause. I call on the Prime Minister to stop comparing his salary and pension with professional hockey players and start comparing it to those who actually pay his salary and pension, the Canadian taxpayers.
Mr. Speaker, last week, the Bloc member for Roberval was concerned by the decision of the American rating agency Moody's to put Canada's credit rating under review.
The opposition member said in this House, and I quote: "The pressure from the financial community is a signal that the Minister of Finance should tackle the deficit problem by making massive cuts in government spending, which has to be the preferred approach, rather than raise the taxes of the middle class".
I am pleased to see that the wish of the hon. member for Roberval was largely met in Monday's budget.
I want to further reassure the member by reminding him of the comments made by his colleague, the official opposition critic for finance, on the CBC'S French radio network yesterday morning: "The economists and the financial community seem relatively pleased with this budget -and rightly so since, from a strictly financial point of view, Mr. Martin seems to be willing or able to reach his objectives-".
Regrettably, I must interrupt the hon. member. The hon. member for Scarborough Centre.
Mr. Speaker, last Monday the Minister of Finance brought forth a trustworthy budget that will put our country in a new era of financial responsibility.
Not only do we feel this is a good budget for Canada, even the international community approved. Within two hours of the budget the dollar began to rise and the interest rates began to fall. These are signs of recognition that we are indeed on the right track. I am happy to add that most reasonable citizens have
come to realize this and have accepted the budget as truly a progressive budget.
One reasonable citizen, I am pleased to note, is the Reform Party's financial critic who was so approving he led the applause in the House. In fact at one time he gave the finance minister a standing ovation, an act earning him reproval from his Reform Party colleagues.
Reform Party members accused us of smoke and mirrors during our prebudget consultations while they spread false information throughout the country. Yet the budget shows Canadian citizens that we were listening.
Mr. Speaker, in its budget, the federal government is downloading part of its deficit to the provinces by cutting $7 billion from transfer payments for social programs. As a result, Quebec alone will lose $650 million next year and $1.9 billion in 1997-98. The Quebec Minister of Finance roundly criticized the negative impact of a budget that will force the Quebec government to reduce services or raise taxes or both.
Will the Minister of Finance have the basic honesty to admit to the House that cuts in transfer payments mean that Quebec will have a shortfall of $2.5 billion three years from now, including $1.9 billion for 1997 alone, which is 41.7 per cent of total transfer payments for that year?
Mr. Speaker, we intend to sit down with the provinces to discuss how we will approach the changes in transfer payments. There is only one correct figure: In 1996-97, compared with this year, there will be a cut of $350 million.
If we consider the potential for eliminating duplication and overlap, I think this can be absorbed.
Mr. Speaker, I beg to differ with the minister on a matter as basic and simple as arithmetic. If the budget had not interfered with transfer payments this year, Quebec would have received $300 million more, according to the estimates for transfer payments. The minister cancelled the $300 million increase and cut an additional $350 million. According to what I learned in school, 300 plus 350 equals 650 million.
The Minister of Finance cannot count.
The minister tells us that as far as the $2.2 billion over a three year period is concerned, there is some uncertainty, since the $4.5 billion that will be cut in the third year will have to be distributed among the provinces, after negotiations with the federal government.
If there is any uncertainty, and in fact there is not, since the technical document published by the Department of Human Resources Development says this will be done on a per capita basis, and the minister says, on page 17 of the budget speech, that he will apply the same criterion-if there is any uncertainty, then it should be cleared up.
Yesterday and again today, the minister said that he was ready to meet the provinces the very next day. Perhaps the minister would like to tell us whether he agrees the provinces should be summoned immediately to a formal federal-provincial conference, where he would clarify the issues and tell us what the repercussions will be for Quebec?
Mr. Speaker, when I met the provincial finance ministers before the budget and we discussed the changes in transfer payments, I told them I would be ready to meet them as soon as the budget was brought down.
So the answer to your question is yes. In fact, I have already made that clear to the finance ministers. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned arithmetic. Well, there is a difference of at least one billion dollars between the figures quoted by the leader of the Bloc Quebecois and those quoted by the Quebec finance minister, so you will have to check with headquarters.
Mr. Speaker, I would appreciate a clear answer. I would like the minister to tell us whether he will immediately call a federal-provincial conference to discuss how the cuts in transfer payments will be distributed.
Mr. Speaker, I certainly intend to schedule a meeting with the finance ministers. They asked me to wait until they had all tabled their own budgets, so let me know when Mr. Campeau tables his, and I will tell you when we will have this meeting.
Mr. Speaker, is the Minister of Transport having problems? I think this is my question and not his. If the Minister of Transport misses being in the opposition, he will be back here soon enough. In the budget speech, the Minister of Finance proposed that the funds paid into the Canada Assistance-
Give him his valium.
Order. I realize today is Wednesday, but, nevertheless, it is the hon. member for Roberval's turn to ask a question.
Mr. Speaker, in the budget speech, the Minister of Finance proposed that transfers under the Canada assistance plan for social assistance now be allocated among provinces in the same way as established program financing transfers for health and post-secondary education-by combining, in 1997, all transfers into a single one: the Canadian social transfer.
Will the Minister of Finance acknowledge that his government's intention to pay the amounts involved in the Canada assistance plan according to the criteria for the established programs will deprive Quebec, in 1997, of several hundreds of millions of dollars in social assistance, in favour of Ontario?
No, Mr. Speaker.
Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is as follows. In his budget, the Minister of Finance announced that he will change the bases, the criteria for allocating money under the Canada assistance plan. He said himself that the transfer will be on the same basis as for the other programs, that population will be the criterion for allocation.
If the Minister of Finance is using population as the Canada assistance plan allocation criterion in order to transfer to Quebec the money involved as a lump sum, will he acknowledge that this approach will take hundreds of millions of dollars away from Quebec in favour of a province like Ontario? If he will not acknowledge this, will he tell us what basis he is using?
Mr. Speaker, I indicated very clearly that we intend to sit down and negotiate with the provinces. We are bringing about changes in federalism. I think that this will require face to face discussions. I have a hard time understanding the questions. I think the hon. member has been briefed by Bob Rae.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday officials of the Department of Finance were telling investors that Canada would balance its budget by the year 2000. Today they are reassuring those investors that even a downturn in the American economy will not stop the government from balancing the budget because the effects will be offset by cuts to social programs and transfers to the provinces.
My question is for the Minister of Finance. Why were Canadians not given more details about the impending social cuts in Monday's budget? Will the minister reveal his real agenda for social spending reductions, a hidden agenda which must exist if the budget is to be balanced by the year 2000?
Mr. Speaker, this is the second day in a row on which the leader of the third party has referred to apparent briefings or statements by unnamed Department of Finance officials.
I think we should make the record clear. I do not know what the leader of the Reform Party is talking about. That makes me a fairly typical Canadian.
The fact is that I am really not able to respond. I would like to respond to the leader of the third party's statement, but I do not know about the briefings that he is raising and that he raised yesterday.
Mr. Speaker, I refer to stories in a number of the financial papers about assurances being given-
Oh, oh.
There are also broad hints in the budget that the minister is obviously contemplating deeper cuts in social spending and transfers if he is going to balance the budget.
If these plans are in progress they are being developed behind closed doors, without Canadians knowing. We even wonder whether the Minister of Human Resources Development knows about them. The finance department is planning major cuts. The human resources minister yesterday said that what they were going to do was reshuffle existing funds to his department.
My question is for the Minister of Human Resources Development. Is that minister personally aware of the changes the finance department has in store for social programs? If so, will he share that agenda with the Canadian people and with the House?
Mr. Speaker, I have read very carefully the document that was tabled in the House on Monday. I am prepared to share it with the hon. member for Calgary Southwest because obviously he has not read it.
Mr. Speaker, if the chief financial officer of a publicly traded company put out a prospectus on Monday and it was found out on Wednesday that they had hidden plans which affected the bottom line and all the shareholders, that CFO could go to jail under Ontario securities law.
None of us would like the Minister of Finance to go to jail, so my question is: Will he come clean and tell Canadians what social program cuts the government is planning in order to balance the budget after 1997?
It is somewhat incongruous watching the Reform Party trying to defend social programs. It is like watching an elephant tap dance.
The Reform Party has to be very desperate and it is quite clear it is so disconcerted by the very favourable reaction that the financial markets have given to this budget but it has lost its issue and is trying to make one up.
There is no hidden agenda. The only agenda that people are looking for today is the Reform Party's and they cannot find it.
[Translation]
Mr. Speaker, the finance minister announced in his budget that he intends to tackle old age pensions. One of the budget documents states that the reform of old age security will be based primarily on the following principle: old age security benefits will be calculated on the basis of family income, as is the case with the guaranteed income supplement.
Can the finance minister confirm that calculating old age security benefits on the basis of family income will mean that, in the future, old age pensions will no longer be the same for everyone and that thousands of senior citizens will see their pensions drop?
Mr. Speaker, to answer the question directly, the exact opposite is true.
Having said this, the federal government and indeed the provincial governments are duty bound to protect old age pensions, the Canada and Quebec pension plans. We intend to sit down no later than this fall to work out a sustainable system. You have seen the actuarial report on this subject.
So I cannot understand the position of the hon. member who would not protect Canadian seniors' old age pensions.
Mr. Speaker, if the finance minister protects old age pensions the way he has protected unemployment insurance, we are not out of the woods yet.
Will the finance minister admit that calculating old age pensions on the basis of family income will directly penalize for the most part women whose financial independence will be compromised?
Mr. Speaker, no firm decision has been made on this matter. We intend to consult, and it is indeed our duty to do so, but nevertheless let me answer your question directly.
According to the study by the Caledon Institute of Social Policy, women are not only protected, their pensions are in fact increased. It is a good thing for women.
I put the following question to the hon. member: He is against seniors, is he also against women? The hon. member should get his numbers right before asking questions.
Mr. Speaker, a centrepiece of the government's budget is the creation of something called the Canada social transfer.
The government's motive for creating this transfer is that this government was planning to make larger and bigger cuts to sacred cows like health, post-secondary education and welfare in this and possible future budgets.
To clarify the situation and to clarify the answers that the minister just gave, will there be any additional cuts to this new super transfer beyond those announced in the current 1995-96 budget?
Mr. Speaker, we set out a very clear plan to preserve our social programs. The Canada social transfer provides us with a basis to do that. It provides us with the basis to do that in very straightened circumstances.
I continue to have some difficulty understanding the nature of the question. I have a great deal of respect for the member but he must understand that he is with a party that recommended two weeks ago that we take $15 billion out of those social programs which would effectively gut them. We are certainly entitled to have a little consistency on economic policy in this country by at least one of the two opposition parties.
Mr. Speaker, I certainly appreciate the answer by the hon. minister.
The Reform Party was up front. We laid it out that we would reduce by $15 billion the social program spending.
What I am asking the minister and the government of this country to do is to lay it out for Canadians and tell them the truth about what is going to happen. That is what we want.
If we look at this 1995-96 budget, the government's transfer proposals provide no additional tax points and actually cut cash transfers to provinces by 20 per cent to 25 per cent. What else is going to happen?
Is this one of the ways that the government is planning to decentralize the deficit but there is a hidden agenda that provinces do not understand?
Mr. Speaker, we have had numerous meetings with the ministers of finance of the provinces. The minister of HRD has had numerous meetings with his counterparts in the provinces. The provinces understand full well the nature of the federal fiscal dilemma. They understand also that it is very important that the federal government get its fiscal house in order because that has enormous benefits for them.
What the provinces said to us was no surprises and there are no surprises. They said hit yourselves first and we have. They have said hit yourself harder than you hit us and we have. We have lived up to every one of our commitments. There is no hidden agenda. There is one very public agenda and that is that we are going to preserve the social programs of this country and clean up the nation's finances.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Human Resources Development.
In the budget speech, the federal government announced that it will be setting up a human resources investment fund of several hundreds of millions of dollars, which the federal government will use to meddle in the area of job training.
Will the minister concede that this fund infringes on the powers of the provinces, does nothing to decentralize government and, in fact, increases even more overlap and duplication between governments?
Mr. Speaker, I do not know how the hon. member arrived at that conclusion because what we are proposing to do is eliminate many of the old programs that were under the Canadian job strategy which no longer are relevant to the kind of situation we face.
By consolidating our existing resources into one human investment we can then sit down with the provinces, as we are doing now on issues of child care and literacy, and work out new partnerships and new arrangements with the provinces, the municipalities and private sector partners. It gives us the flexibility we need to now engage in a new generation of social programming that really fits both the reality and the changed circumstances the country finds itself in.
That is the same kind of flexibility we are achieving through the new form of Canada's social transfer. We are also achieving this by putting up a new form of funding resource in our own department so that we can undertake those kinds of partnerships I just outlined.
Mr. Speaker, will the minister also admit that the human resources investment fund goes in the opposite direction of where Quebec wants to go regarding job training, since, instead of withdrawing from this sector, the federal government plans to infringe more and more on Quebec's jurisdiction?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is in some strange vapour today. He is drawing a conclusion that has no basis in any kind of fact. I have just told the hon. member that creating a new kind of investment fund puts us in a position of being able to start with a clean slate to sit down with the provinces and other stakeholders and work out new partnership arrangements.
I would remind the hon. member that we have already tabled with the provinces, including the province of Quebec, offers for serious transfer responsibilities in the area of training and the province of Quebec has not responded in a positive way. Certainly other provinces have and I would issue the invitation again to sit down and we are prepared to turn over responsibility for managing institutional training. I would hope that the hon. member would use his good offices with his colleagues in Quebec to say come back to us with a good offer.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Canadian Heritage.
Yesterday Tony Manera, the president of the CBC, resigned because the Liberals broke their red book promise for stable multi-year funding to the CBC. Manera says that in the next three years the government plans to cut $120 million more from the CBC than the $45 million that was stated in the budget.
The minister has a secret agenda about the future of the CBC which he has failed to disclose. Why has the minister failed to provide this information to Canadians?
Mr. Speaker, our colleague is out of luck. Her assistant is no better as a researcher than he was as a candidate in Ottawa-Vanier.
The information she put forward is false. The government has given a clear indication of what it will do in the budget and that is to fix the CBC budget for next year. All the rest is invention. Mr. Manera has resigned because of personal reasons.
Mr. Speaker, with all due respect to the minister, cheap political shots against an honourable and professional candidate in an election are clearly out of order in this House.
The Department of Canadian Heritage did send a secret document to the president of the CBC confirming its plans to cut the CBC over the next three years. That includes $120 million in the cuts that the minister has failed to report.
How can the minister justify wasting more taxpayers' dollars on another review as stated in the budget plan when according to the president of the CBC the government has already made up its mind?
Mr. Speaker, talking about cheap shots, let me quote the hon. member: "Mr. Manera is not staying to fight. It is an abdication of leadership which means that he is not up to the challenge of developing a blueprint for changing broadcasting".
The only figures that have been passed on by my department to Mr. Manera and the CBC are the figures of the program review. The government established one year of budget for the CBC, the next fiscal year. The other figures amount to 15 to 10 per cent for the next three years. They were contained in the program review of last August.
Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the minister of heritage.Mr. Manera agreed to become president of the CBC after the minister had assured him that there would not be any cuts to the CBC's budget.
Instead of claiming that Mr. Manera resigned for personal reasons, would the minister be honest enough to admit-
Oh, oh.
Dear colleagues, it must be taken for granted that questions and responses will be honest. I would therefore ask the hon. member to withdraw the expression she used.
Mr. Speaker, it is not a matter of honesty.
Could the minister admit that this resignation is directly related-
Oh, oh!
I would ask the hon. member to put her question, please.
Instead of claiming that Mr. Manera resigned for personal reasons, will the minister admit that this resignation is directly related to his failure to honour his commitment as heritage minister not to make further cuts to the CBC's budget?
Mr. Speaker, there is a passage in the Gospel-
Oh, oh!
-about "whited sepulchres". Only a few weeks ago, our colleague rose in this House, loudly demanding that Mr. Manera resign. Did she undergo a conversion? She is now defending him. Did she undergo a conversion and decide to defend the CBC, this great federalist, national institution?
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, does the heritage minister admit that he is no longer either a friend of the corporation, as he himself claimed, nor, as heritage minister, a friend of cultural organizations and the arts community, whose interests he has been unable to protect, since culture is one of the sectors hardest hit by the federal budget?
Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition referred to the fact that arithmetic is taught in grade school. I am surprised that a former teacher cannot do simple arithmetic and realize that if there is one sector that was not hit hard, it is the cultural sector.
I therefore categorically deny our colleague's allegations and I can reiterate that Mr. Manera did not resign because of the budget. He said so himself in writing. She is in fact questioning the good faith of the former President of the CBC.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance.
Since Monday's fiscally responsible and fair budget we have heard speculative statements about how the budget impacts on Ontario. After four and a half years, the current premier of Ontario will soon have to do his own accounting to the people of Ontario.
Would the Minister of Finance please clarify how the budget affects Ontario, a province with 37.5 per cent of the nation's population?
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the member for London West for her question because it gives me the opportunity to correct the exaggerated claims being made by the Government of Ontario.
We have gone to great lengths, we have taken great pain within the budget to make sure that it is fair and equitable and does not impact disproportionately on any single region of the country.
Ontario's share of the downsizing of the public service is in line with its share of the national population. We could go one step further. Nearly 161,000 jobs were created in Ontario last year. We are going to maintain this recovery with a good budget so we can create jobs in Ontario at the same level next year. That is why we acted the way we did.
The member has asked me to deal with the facts. Ontario's share of budgetary actions is in the same range as its current share of federal spending and it is actually less than its share of Canada's population. If Bob Rae wants to play politics, he can do it. However, he should stop playing politics with the facts because he will never get re-elected that way.
May I appeal to hon. members once again? All questions put in the House are deemed to be reasonable questions. I believe that all hon. members should have the chance to hear reasonable answers. I would ask please, when questions are put to give enough time for the answer to be given.
Mr. Speaker, today the Prime Minister, when speaking of the budget changes said: "Social programs such as medicare will revert to meeting more basic needs as it did when it was started a half century ago".
What exactly does the Prime Minister mean by basic services?
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister means what he said this morning and what he has repeated. He intends to support and maintain a universal, accessible system of health care across the country where treatment is based not on the size of your pocket book but on the serious illness you face.
Mr. Speaker, Reform has stated time and time again that what health care needs is flexibility. We do not need the solutions of 50 years ago. We do not need poor technology. We do not need poor innovation.
Will the Prime Minister recognize in front of all Canadians that his budget will gut health care?
Mr. Speaker, the absolute hypocrisy of the Reform Party is never more evident than when its members rise to defend the benefits of universal health care. This is the very party that would have cut the heart and soul out of the health care system.
We are not going to let them do it because they will never form the government.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. In the budget tabled on Monday, the minister decreed that a $975 fee will now be charged to every person who wishes to immigrate to Canada. This large amount of money is on top of the $500 processing fee all immigrants already have to pay.
Does the minister not realize that it makes no sense to ask prospective immigrants to pay $975, as this may represent up to a year's salary or more in their countries of origin?
Why do future immigrants have to pay for the government's deficit?
Mr. Speaker, I do not think the hon. member is in any position to lecture the government on how it treats immigrants when members of his party in the PQ would not even extend democratic rights to immigrants in Quebec.
The Minister of Finance said on Monday that all Canadians, fishermen, farmers, public servants, business people, Canadian families had to sacrifice for nation building and to maintain Canada's prosperity. We have chosen to extend that invitation to those wishing to join the Canadian family and also to recover some of the costs for immigration settlement.
There are two options. Immigrants either share with us in the cost of settlement or we go the route of the United States of America where there is no settlement. Like the commercial says: "You can pay now or you can pay much more later". We prefer settlement because it is the best way of integrating immigrants. We also believe that the landing fee is worth the price to come to the best country in the world.
Mr. Speaker, does the minister not realize that the message of openness Canada is trying to convey to future immigrants to this country is greatly compromised by this immigration tax, which can represent more than $3,000 for a family of four?
Mr. Speaker, the member did not mention that the Minister of Finance has also instituted a loan program that would allow those individuals who believe that the $975 would be a hardship to apply for a loan.
Just like refugees since 1951 have been able to absorb a transportation loan, we believe that this fee will not cause hardship. We are prepared to implement the loan program.
With respect to other countries that ask immigrants to help shoulder the costs, Canada is in the middle of the spectrum where it ought to be.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Natural Resources.
In the budget the government announced the elimination of the public utilities transfer tax rebate. Since 88 per cent of the $250 million tax grab hits Alberta, the elimination of this rebate is a discriminatory tax hike aimed directly at Albertans and will cost them at least $170 million.
As the senior federal minister representing Alberta, does the minister support this measure?
Mr. Speaker, this nation has a very large deficit and a very large debt. It was incumbent upon the government to deal with it in the fairest and most expeditious way possible. That is what we have done.
In this case we have followed the lead of a number of provincial governments, including the Government of Alberta. I believe the member for Lethbridge was a member of the Government of Alberta when it took away the equivalent tax exemption for the public utilities in that province.
Mr. Speaker, in view of the discriminatory nature of this tax grab and the fact that the socialist power companies of Ontario and Quebec get away scot free, does the finance minister view this as fair and equitable?
Mr. Speaker, I would simply refer the member to the statement by the premier of Alberta, in which he said that the federal government had to face up to its responsibilities. We did so and basically this is a good budget.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the President of the Treasury Board.
The infrastructure program has been very successful and encouraged all levels of government to work together. In my riding of Vancouver East the projects were enthusiastically received and put many people to work.
Could the Minister responsible for Infrastructure inform the House of the status of the programs following Monday's budget?
Mr. Speaker, the program on infrastructure is being extended from a three-year to a five-year period. This comes about as a result of two things: first, many municipalities with major projects have asked for extra construction time to be able to complete their projects and, second, the fiscal needs of the Minister of Finance as announced in the budget.
I am pleased to say that this coming construction season will be the biggest by far in terms of the infrastructure program. Sixty per cent of all the funds under the program will be allocated within the two years. The $2 billion from the federal level and the $6 billion in total will stay intact over that five-year period of time. It will lead to even more jobs than we had predicted: over 100,000.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. I ask the Prime Minister for a clear answer about his government's intentions on a question he was asked yesterday in the House.
Will women 65 years of age and older lose their OAS because of their spouse's income as implied on page 58 of the budget plan? Yes or no.
No, Mr. Speaker.
Mr. Speaker, the single most damaging element of this week's federal budget will be the devastating effect on the regional economy of the prairies, that is the elimination of the Crow rate including declining land values and the lack of investment for value added production.
Has the minister given any thought at all to the long term implications for the prairie economy of the decision to end the transport subsidy? If so, could he identify the sources in which he has so substantially misplaced his optimism?
Mr. Speaker, I note that a number of farmers in western Canada over the course of the last two days in commenting on the budget have noted that the change with respect to freight rates in western Canada has the potential to encourage diversification and value added production in the west.
I would point out that the hon. gentleman, coming from Saskatchewan, should perhaps know with respect to the $1.6 billion ex gratia capital payment that something in the order of $800 million or more of that total will find its way into the province of Saskatchewan because of that province's historical share of grain movement.
It does not include Saskatchewan's share of the $300 million adjustment fund. It does not include the capital gains tax advantage. It does not include the time cost of money that will accrue to the recipients of those payments and not to the government. It does not include the impact on efficiency in the transportation system.
I draw the attention of hon. members to the presence in the gallery of Dr. Christos Lazaris, Governor of Lefkada in Greece.
Mr. Speaker, in response to a point of order raised by the hon. member for Skeena on February 9, the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development stated that I held a meeting in my riding of Prince George-Bulkley Valley entitled "Let the people speak" and that natives were neither notified nor asked to sit on a panel at the meeting.
I held no such meeting in my riding. The minister has confused my riding with another and I would ask him to withdraw these remarks.
Mr. Speaker, I stand as a minister but first I stand as a member of Parliament who does not pick and choose which constituents I speak for.
One of the purposes of the House is for the views of those who have the least voice, who are the most oppressed and who need our help the most to come before Parliament. The silence of the Reform Party on aboriginal issues is so profound that it is deserving of respect.
There have been four critics; I have gone through four critics. They sit there like a Greek chorus.
Order.
In my view the point of order is a dispute as to facts. From time to time in the course of debate-and I am not saying this happened here-sometimes errors are made. I would hope hon. members would give each other enough latitude in debate so that if errors are made inadvertently they are accepted as such.
Mr. Speaker, I accept the explanation of the hon. member but of the two critics one represents the Nishga-
Order.
I take it from the acceptance of the statement that perhaps an error was made. I am hopeful this will close the matter as of now. I would like the matter to be closed as of now.
This point of order is finished. If the member has another point of order I would like to hear it. Is this on the same point of order?
On a point of clarification, the hon. member for Kindersley-Lloydminster.
Mr. Speaker, for the benefit of all members of the House, would you clarify whether or not it is in order for a member to ask for a retraction and either the member retracts the statement or refuses to retract the statement and then, I suggest from my understanding of the standing orders, you, Mr. Speaker, make a decision on which member had the right position?
Sometimes the Chair is faced with both positions being correct.
In this particular instance we had an hon. member saying that it was said that he held a meeting of some kind in his riding. I now have the minister involved who says he accepts that it was an error.
I accept the minister's statement and I consider the matter to be closed.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a different point of order. I think you would agree that one very controversial issue facing the House at the moment is the gun control legislation.
Because of the imprecise nature of the discussion a lot of my constituents are wanting access to the legislation. I have been told that I am only allowed to get 10 copies. Could you indicate that this is not true and where my constituents can go to get more copies of the legislation?
Mr. Speaker, as the spokesman for the Board of Internal Economy I informed the House last Friday that in addition to the copies being made available by the minister, the House had taken it upon itself to purchase an additional five copies per hon. member according to a decision taken last week unanimously by the Board of Internal Economy.
This then is the response. I do not want to get into a debate about the matter but I will hear the hon. member for Kamloops.
Mr. Speaker, I would not want to get into a debate on the issue. I appreciate the decision that ha