I wish to inform the House that, pursuant to Standing Order 28(4), I have recalled the House today for the sole purpose of granting royal assent to certain bills.
I have the honour to inform the House that a communication has been received as follows:
RIDEAU HALL
December 15, 1995

Mr. Speaker,
I have the honour to inform you that the Hon. John Charles Major, Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of Canada, in his capacity as Deputy Governor General, will proceed to the Senate Chamber today, the 15th day of December 1995, at 12.00 p.m., for the purpose of giving Royal Assent to certain bills.
Yours sincerely,

Judith A. LaRocque Secretary to the Governor General
I have the honour to inform the House that a message has been received from the Senate informing this House that the Senate has passed the following bills: Bill C-45, an act to amend the Corrections and Conditional Release Act, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Records Act, the Prisons and Reformatories Act and the Transfer of Offenders Act; Bill C-83, an act to amend the Auditor General Act; Bill C-64, an act respecting employment equity; Bill C-107, an act respecting the establishment of the British Columbia Treaty Commission; Bill C-103, an act to amend the Excise Tax Act and the Income Tax Act; Bill C-108, an act to amend the National Housing Act; Bill C-99, an act to amend the Small Business Loans Act; Bill S-12, an act to amalgamate the Alberta corporation known as the Missionary Church with the Canada corporation known as the Evangelical Missionary Church, Canada West District; Bill C-116, an act for granting to Her Majesty certain sums of money for the public service of Canada for the financial year ending March 31, 1996.
A message was delivered by the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod as follows:

Mr. Speaker, the Honourable Deputy to His Excellency the Governor General desires the immediate attendance of this honourable House in the chamber of the honourable the Senate.

Accordingly, Mr. Speaker with the House went up to the Senate chamber.
And being returned: