Mr. Speaker, in 1966 the United Nations declared March 21 the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. Since 1988 this date has been officially recognized and celebrated in Canada for this purpose.
While that date has passed, it is important for us all to remember that the purpose of this day is to promote racial tolerance and understanding. There is no place for racism in Canadian society. Prejudice and discrimination are problems that must be acknowledged and addressed. They must be stamped out. As Canadian citizens, we must take individual responsibility in the elimination of racism and racial discrimination.
Our greatest legacy to the world, if we so choose, is to develop a model bilingual and multicultural society where each Canadian is valued, where each and every one of us learns to work and celebrate together in a spirit of harmony and unity.
Mr. Speaker, in October 1945, Hector Racine, then president of the Montreal Royals, announced that Jackie Robinson was joining his baseball team. This signalled the beginning of the end of racial segregation in American and Canadian professional sport.
Yesterday, as we marked the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, Montrealers paid tribute to Jackie Robinson, the first black to play baseball professionally.
Mr. Robinson played one year with the Montreal club, in 1946, before joining the Brooklyn Dodgers for a remarkable professional career.
On behalf of all those who remember Jackie Robinson, I would like to pay tribute once again to this great adopted son of Montreal, who led his team to victory in the international league in 1946.
Mr. Speaker, a gentleman, a hard working fellow cannot sleep one night. He decides that rather than twist and turn in bed he would get up, go to his jewellery store in a small Ontario town and get a head start on the day's work.
It is dark at 3 a.m. The 81-year old jeweller is quietly working in the back of his shop when suddenly a loud crash startles our law-abiding shop owner. His heart stops as he turns and sees two young, strong vandals coming in through the broken window in the front of his shop.
He is frightened. He worries about physical harm and that his private property will be stolen. The frightened shop owner reaches for the revolver which has been inside his shop for many years. Out of fear for his personal safety he fires it to scare away the vandals.
The next morning the elderly shopkeeper has more to worry about. He is now the criminal. He is now facing charges far worse than those who were attempting to rob or possibly injure him. The law says he has no right to protect himself or his possessions.
Welcome to Canada in the 1990s. Just hope you never have to protect yourself, your family or your property. Nineties justice will say you are the criminal.
Mr. Speaker, in the budget the government decided to pay western landowners $1.6 billion as a partial offset to the decline in farmland values that will result from the abandonment of the Crow benefit and the Crow rate.
The minister of agriculture has decided in his wisdom to include summer fallow in the calculation for the payment but not the 10 million acres or more of cultivated lands that are seeded to forage crops for hay and seed production. The rationale for this breathtaking leap of logic seems to be that grass seed was not listed in the Crow benefit schedule.
Could the minister explain his version of fairness to one of my constituents who cash rented a half section from an uncle, seeded it to alfalfa and has been producing seed? How does my constituent tell his uncle that his land is not eligible for a payout because his nephew seeded it to alfalfa?
The uncle knows his land will lose just as much value as the land across the fence which is not in alfalfa but there is no compensation for him. How is that fair?
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Learning Disabilities Association for Newfoundland and Labrador, I would like to remind all Canadians that this is Learning Disabilities Month. As a former volunteer with the association in St. John's, I understand and appreciate the work the organization undertakes.
It is estimated that one in ten Canadians suffers from a learning disability ranging from mild to severe. They have trouble receiving information through the senses and transmitting that information accurately to the brain. It is much like a bad telephone connection or a fuzzy photograph.
Students young and old who live with a learning disability are able to achieve if given the right help. When assisted they can become productive and valued members of society. Without assistance, the social costs are high.
I am pleased to be able to take this moment to commend the Learning Disabilities Association of Newfoundland and Labrador and all community organizations for the many hours they have spent to make a difference.
Mr. Speaker, last Saturday at a symposium the Quebec Minister of the Environment stated that Quebec's environment would be better protected if the province withdrew from the absurdity of the federal regime.
In 1990, when he was federal environment minister, the leader of the Bloc said: "A sovereign Quebec will not be able to solve its problems alone, any more than Canada could find a solution to the problem of acid rain on its own, without negotiating with the United States. Nationalism has no place in a global issue-".
How does the Leader of the Official Opposition intend to reconcile his earlier position with the statement of the Quebec environment minister?
Mr. Speaker, the rail line system in Canada is the prairie farmer's lifeline. Over the past week we have seen that lifeline severed by strikes and by the stalling tactics of the NDP and the Bloc.
I appeal to those parties to take a long hard look at what they have done to Canadian farmers. They have robbed farmers of $100 million in lost revenues this week. Neither farmers nor the Canadian economy can afford these losses.
This government has clearly demonstrated its commitment to prairie farmers by introducing back to work legislation. I commend the Minister of Labour for the leadership she has shown, for her dedication to ending this strike immediately, for doing everything within her power to get grain moving again. Madam minister, prairie farmers owe you a debt of gratitude.
I urge the NDP and the Bloc to co-operate in the process to let the government end the strike for the benefit of all Canadians who depend on the rail service.
I would ask all hon. members to please address the Chair directly.
Mr. Speaker, the promise made by Senator Rizutto, the Prime Minister's election organizer, is still fresh in our minds. He told all the Liberal candidates who were defeated in the last Quebec election: "Do not worry, we will find jobs for you".
Like the Liberals say, a promise is a promise. Céline Hervieux-Payette, who had been a roving candidate for the Liberal Party for over a decade, is now set up in the Senate. Some may argue she is more deserving than the others, having bitten the dust on three occasions-in 1984, 1988 and 1993-in various Montreal ridings.
In her new job, she will have plenty of leisure time to devote to party politics and backstage manoeuvring. One has to find something to do: 20 years in the Senate is a long time.
Senator Rizutto's promise will cost the Canadian taxpayers nearly $2 million if you add up bonuses, incidentals and inflation for the next 20 years. It pays to be defeated when you are a Liberal.
Mr. Speaker, the member for Skeena and I and 13 host MPs completed an aboriginal town hall series in B.C. last week. This included eight communities and attracted over 1,600 people.
We delivered a distinctly different and welcomed point of view to the public. Many British Columbians are concerned that none of the negotiating parties in the process is vigorously representing non-native interests and that the process is secretive. Additionally, the total cost of the settlement based on recent leaks would be at least $8 billion and may exceed $18 billion.
Federal responsibility for treaty Indians is clearly established and there is also a federal obligation to ensure public interest is met. The current process is built on sand and will fail. Fundamental change is needed to create modern treaties that are affordable and lead to native self-sufficiency, finality of negotiations and equality of Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, Canada's economic recovery is being threatened by a nationwide rail shutdown.
We believe in the process of collective bargaining, however it is clear the negotiations have not worked. Since Monday our government has worked diligently to get the trains moving again, only to be opposed by the official opposition party which is playing self-interested political games which have harmed our national economy.
Now is the time for action. In my riding of Annapolis Valley-Hants major companies such as National Gypsum rely on rail transport to ship their products and meet their deadlines. For these companies the rail shutdown has severely harmed business and will threaten many jobs.
For the sake of the commerce of Annapolis Valley-Hants and across the country, I urge parties to support our efforts to bring an immediate end to this dispute.
Mr. Speaker, the people of Durham and Oshawa are concerned over the continuation of the rail strike.
I have spoken today with General Motors and understand that both its inbound and outbound production systems are close to being curtailed. This will affect the jobs and the economy of the whole region.
When I see the main reason for the Bloc Quebecois' blocking the passage of this legislation is clause 12 regarding the importance of economic viability and competitiveness, I know it is the party of the status quo. Some of the collective agreements still include blacksmiths.
It is the party that does not want change. It is afraid of the 21st century and wants to cling to the past. It is so rigid that it would force people across this country to lose their jobs and livelihood so that the traditions of the past can be maintained.
This is really where the Bloc wants to go, not into the future but back to the 19th century. The people of Canada do not want to go.
Mr. Speaker, the rail dispute is a direct economic threat to the auto, petrochemical and manufacturing industries so important to Canada and particularly to my riding of Bramalea-Gore-Malton.
The NDP and the Bloc are needlessly prolonging this strike, a position that is clearly a threat to the economic recovery now under way. The NDP supports the right to collective misery. The Bloc must not allow its separatist agenda to put a stranglehold on Canada. All Canadians will suffer.
I urge the Bloc and the NDP to end grandstanding and allow the trains to roll.
Mr. Speaker, we were dismayed to hear about the passing of my friend Claude Ducharme who died yesterday in Paris, where he was attending a union convention. Mr. Ducharme was vice-president of the FTQ, head of the Quebec chapter of the Canadian Auto Workers and member of the board of directors of the FTQ's compensation fund.
He espoused the cause of the workers and fought relentlessly for the implementation of decent working conditions. Fernand Daoust said of him that he was a great unionist who helped give the union movement a respectable and credible image.
All the members of the Bloc Quebecois join me in extending their deepest sympathies to Mr. Ducharme's family and thank him for having devoted himself with so much conviction to the well-being of Quebec workers.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of members and all Canadians I would like to express our deepest sympathy to the Okumiya family of Edmonton.
On March 14 while playing with two friends, 11-year old Hisaya Okumiya fell through the ice of Mill Creek. Emergency personnel and divers were brought in to search for the young boy, without success. The official search was eventually called off.
Determined to find his son, Mr. Okumiya continued his search alone, tirelessly picking away at the ice. His efforts were soon joined by upward of 40 volunteers, police, firefighters and city workers who on their own time helped in the search. On Tuesday morning the body of Hisaya was found.
While there are no words that will ease the grief members of the Okumiya family are feeling today, perhaps they will find some comfort in knowing that the thoughts and prayers of all members and indeed of all Canadians are with them. May I also express our sincere appreciation to the people of Edmonton who pulled together to help the Okumiya family in its time of distress.
Mr. Speaker, I want to congratulate seven high school students from my riding who recently were named to represent Ontario at DECA, the premier academic competition in North America for high school business students.
The Markham students who qualified through the provincial competition are Maha Hussain, Julie Ward, Alyson Pownall, Seung-Oh Chung, Ian Tien, Chris Vollmar and Rebecca Habashy. These elite students will now compete for top honours at the North American competition to be held in St. Louis, Missouri from April 28 to May 2.
The competition in St. Louis will feature 10,000 of the best business studies students across America. It is a showcase for student achievement and progress. These Markham students will compete in a series of oral and written examinations in numerous academic areas.
On behalf of all members of the House I wish these students success. I am quite sure these young women and men will represent our country well in the competition.
Colleagues, I would like to draw to your attention the presence in the gallery of the Hon. Janet Reno, Attorney General of the United States of America.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister.
Conciliation commissioner Hope's report clearly states that the main cause of the rail dispute is the attitude of the railway companies which, throughout the negotiations, refused to give any consideration whatsoever to union demands. It says that, at most bargaining tables, union demands did not receive any consideration, even though it is clear that these demands are serious and have merit.
My question to the Prime Minister is this: Why is the government so intent on rejecting at all cost the official opposition's offer to settle the rail dispute very quickly while respecting the rights of workers, who could not be heard? Why is the government so inflexible toward the workers?
Mr. Speaker, Bloc members seem to be overlooking the whole process. Negotiations in this sector have been under way for over a year, first with a conciliator and then with a conciliation commissioner.
We stand before a fait accompli: Railway operations are completely paralyzed. This has a huge economic impact from coast to coast. Even in Quebec, more plants shut down today. I am asking the Bloc Quebecois to be a little more sensitive to Quebec's economy, if they are unable to be sensitive to Canada's economy.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to remind the Minister of Labour that if she wants to settle the dispute without trampling on workers, we are ready to co-operate right now.
It is not the official opposition but the conciliation commissioner who said that union demands did not receive any attention. The minister should read his report before opening her mouth.
Does the government's insistence on imposing diminished working conditions on CN workers at all cost mean that its intention to privatize CN is forcing the government to settle the matter of working conditions quickly and at workers' expense, in order to attract potential investors?
Mr. Speaker, let us look at the facts. We should try to stay neutral in this dispute-and I think that is what the government is trying to do-and avoid siding with either the unions or the employers. I think it is up to them to negotiate their collective agreements. We want the unions to participate in the collective bargaining process as well.
Let us be realistic: Kruger is closed, while Bécancour, Alcan and Petromont are in the process of shutting down. Let us do something, Mr. Speaker.
Mr. Speaker, how can the Minister of Labour say so candidly that we should let the parties negotiate among themselves? That is exactly what our proposal calls for. We should let the employees go back to work and negotiate with their employers. That is what we are asking the minister. Did the minister not understand any of this?
Mr. Speaker, I wonder who does not understand anything in this case. Negotiations have been under way for over a year in this matter. All the Bloc Quebecois can do is tell me to forget about results, offer to talk some more and ask for mediation.
This government wants to achieve results. We are currently facing a major crisis from coast to coast and the government has a responsibility to take action instead of simply talking and trying to avoid the real problems.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Obviously, the government's commercial and financial interests are directly affected by the CN strike. Indeed, in spite of the Prime Minister's claims, with the rapid imposition of less favourable working conditions, CN's market value is much higher in case of an eventual sale.
If the Prime Minister is serious when he claims that the government's commercial interests do not have priority over the rights of workers, why does he still reject the official opposition's proposal, considering that a negotiated settlement is much better than an imposed agreement?
Mr. Speaker, I have nothing to add to the comments made by the Minister of Labour. Negotiations went on for months and now there is a strike. Thousands of jobs are affected throughout Canada and that strike causes serious injury to our country's economy. Our government is not concerned about its own economic interests, but about those of Canadians, including manufacturers of goods and agricultural producers, who must ship their products to market. This is our top priority and it will not change.
Mr. Speaker, since Monday, we have been proposing conditions which would ensure a quick return to work. Considering that conciliator Hope states in his report that there is collusion between the government and the employers, how can the Prime Minister claim that the arbitration commissions will do justice to the workers, since two of the three members will be appointed by the government and the employers?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is quoting from a conciliation report that did not resolve the problem. She is asking us to enter into conciliation again, to have 60 more days of that. We have been in a strike situation now for many days. We will start over in 60 days? No way. They have to go back to work right now.
Mr. Speaker, today a meeting is supposed to take place between the Government of Canada and Moody's, the bond rating agency, to discuss Canada's credit rating.
Will the finance minister tell us when that meeting will take place, where it will take place and who will be representing Canada at the meeting?
Mr. Speaker, the meeting is taking place today. It has already begun. The officials from the Department of Finance will be there and I will be meeting with the agency later.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians have a right not only to know who is representing them at that meeting but what they are going to be saying. If no timetable or plan is presented for deficit elimination as distinct from deficit reduction, our credit will be downgraded, our dollar will fall, our interest rates will rise and thousands of Canadians will be hurt.
Who is talking to Moody's and what are they saying about deficit elimination? Canadians have a right to know.
Colleagues, I am having a little bit of difficulty hearing and understanding the questions at this end of the Chamber.
Mr. Speaker, I understand the difficulty the leader of the third party has thinking up three different questions.
I answered his first question. The officials of the Department of Finance are meeting with the agency and I will be meeting with the agency. I have not yet met with them. I will be doing so this afternoon.
Therefore it is quite difficult for me to tell the leader of the Reform Party what took place in that meeting because it has not taken place. You see, there is an order, Mr. Speaker.
Mr. Speaker, my question was quite simple.
When the minister meets with Moody's is he going to present a plan for deficit elimination? If he is going to do that, why does he not present that plan to the House and to the Canadian people, not simply to an American bond rating agency?
Mr. Speaker, I responded to this question yesterday. I made it very clear the government's ultimate objective is to go to zero. I also made it very clear, and I will be confirming this to Moody's, we are going to be doing this with a series of short term targets because we feel it is the best way to get there.
I also told the leader of the third party yesterday that we would be not talking with the doom and gloom he likes to indulge in but about our productivity record, our inflation record, our job creation.
There is something I did not say yesterday because the information was not out. The volume of exports in January was up 3.3 per cent. This is the eighth consecutive increase and the trade balance has again set a new record.
Hear, hear.
I love these Wednesdays.
Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. Half a dozen Spanish ships are now on the nose and tail of the Grand Banks off Newfoundland, fishing for Greenland halibut or turbot, despite the moratorium requested by Canada. Both Canadian and Spanish armed vessels are now patrolling this area.
Since the Canadian government has stated repeatedly that it would resort to seizures again if necessary, could the Prime Minister indicate what his government intends to do to make Spanish ships stop fishing on the nose and tail of the Grand Banks off Newfoundland?
Mr. Speaker, yesterday I had a chance to speak to President Santer of the European Union, and Prime Minister Gonzalez of Spain. Mr. Santer had indicated earlier that he hoped we would be able to negotiate a settlement to the dispute as soon as possible. That is what we intend to do.
It is true a number of ships are fishing at this time. There were 49 and now there are six. Yesterday I spoke to Mr. Gonzalez, and I told him to ask the Spanish fishermen to withdraw, because we have ordered our own fishermen to stop fishing and the same should apply to Spanish fishermen. I will be talking to Mr. Gonzalez again later today. Canada takes the position that a settlement should be such as ensure that in the future, fishing regulations will be complied with both outside and within the 200-mile zone. That is our goal, and in the interest of conservation we hope to attain it as soon as possible.
Mr. Speaker, although apparently there was a cordial exchange between the Prime Minister and Mr. Gonzalez, would the Prime Minister agree that this defiant gesture by Spanish ships is a blow to the Canadian government's strategy for resolving the dispute with the European Union?
Mr. Speaker, at the present time, I think I would rather talk to Mr. Gonzalez and Mr. Santer, and try and find a way out of this. This is a problem that has existed for some time. We took an historic step a few days ago, and we now want to give negotiations a chance. I hope Mr. Gonzalez will be able to convince the fishermen to stop fishing so that a solution can be found.
If there is no change in the situation within the next few days, we will have to see what we can do.
Mr. Speaker, a one-week shutdown of our railways means an immediate short term loss of $3 billion to $5 billion including $1 billion in exports.
Canada's international reputation is damaged yet again by the 15th strike in 15 years with long term costs. At a time when Canada faces a credit downgrading by Moody's, will the Minister of Labour commit to a permanent solution with a final offer of settlement for essential services?
Mr. Speaker, we are looking into the problem. We have had some strikes that have caused a lot of damage to the Canadian economy. We are looking to find a way so that we will not be trapped in this situation all the time.
We have given the right to strike. On some occasions we have accepted some strikes because the situation was justifiable, but at this time the combination of strikes is too much for the
Canadian economy to take. This is why we have a bill before the House. We hope it will be passed by the end of the day so that work can resume as soon as possible.
Mr. Speaker, I can understand the governing party is having trouble handling the situation but the Canadian people do not have any patience with it. We have had 15 strikes in 15 years.
My supplementary question is for the Minister for International Trade. Forty per cent of Canadian exports depend on railways to move to market. The government's inaction on the issue last week led to significant financial losses for exporters.
Will the Minister for International Trade impress upon his colleague, the Minister of Labour, that Canada cannot afford further damage to our reputation as a reliable supplier?
Mr. Speaker, the Government of Canada has indicated very clearly its position. If we had not been faced with the opposition of the Bloc and the NDP, the bill would have been passed yesterday. We will do everything possible for the bill to be passed today.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Defence.
Yesterday, the Minister of Defence announced the creation of a commission of inquiry on the deployment of the Canadian Forces to Somalia. However, despite repeated requests from the official opposition, the minister refuses to broaden the commission's terms of reference to include other troubling events that have occurred at the Petawawa base.
How does the minister explain that the commission's terms of reference cover only the deployment of the Airborne Regiment in Somalia and that they contain no other provision regarding other events that have occurred at Petawawa and that have considerably sullied the reputation and the honour of the Canadian Forces?
Mr. Speaker, we called the inquiry as promised to deal with the very serious problems that occurred when our troops were deployed to Somalia some two years ago.
The inquiry is public. It is headed by a civilian, a Federal Court judge, and will look into all aspects of the deployment to Somalia.
If the hon. member has other troubling questions that he would like to pose with respect to any other aspect of the armed forces, he should be specific, do it in the House, write to me or put an order paper question down, and I will be pleased to answer.
We are not going to have an investigation or an inquiry into every aspect of the Canadian Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence. We are restricting the inquiry to the events of 1993, the deployment of Canadian troops to that theatre.
Mr. Speaker, given that the minister undertook to bring all of the despicable events at Petawawa to light, are we to understand that the initiation rites and the display of the flag symbolizing white supremacy and the banner of the Klu Klux Klan openly and with the knowledge of senior officers constituted preparation for the mission to Somalia and will therefore be investigated?
Mr. Speaker, if there is anything in the preparation of the Canadian airborne regiment for its duty in Somalia that needs to come to light, it should be investigated by the inquiry.
The terms of reference are exceedingly broad. The three commissioners are civilians of great repute. I have no question in my mind that they will get to the bottom of any question the hon. member has or the Canadian public has.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that the Minister of National Defence has seen the wisdom of conducting the Somalia investigation under the Inquiries Act rather than the National Defence Act.
My concern now is for members of the Canadian forces who may have pertinent information but hesitate to bring it forward for fear of career implications.
What provisions has the minister made to protect such individuals?
Mr. Speaker, we are dealing here with a very serious matter. We have an inquiry under part I of the Inquiries Act.
Any Canadian with any evidence has a right and a duty to come forward to that inquiry and no impediment must be put in his or her way.
Mr. Speaker, the minister did not exactly answer my question.
I have a supplementary question. Should the inquiry reveal that events involving the airborne regiment in and around
Somalia resulted from individual rather than systemic problems, will the minister reinstate the regiment?
Mr. Speaker, I am a little frustrated. For a year now members of the opposition have asked for a public inquiry into these matters. They have their inquiry. Will they please let the commissioners do their job and report, and then we will look at it.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the senior deputy governor of the Bank of Canada, Bernard Bonin, set a dangerous precedent when he endorsed the analysis and conclusions of a prereferendum study carried out by the C.D. Howe Institute which concluded that Quebec's separation would provoke a serious economic upset and a capital drain which would force Quebec to mint its own currency.
Does the Minister of Finance feel that it is proper for the senior deputy governor of the Bank of Canada to become publicly involved in a political debate?
Mr. Speaker, all the senior deputy governor did was mention a very well done study on a topic being debated.
I must admit that I am very surprised that the first francophone to occupy this position in the history of Canada has been attacked by the Bloc critic. Personally, I intend to defend Bernard Bonin.
Mr. Speaker, the question is so important and serious that I will direct my supplementary question to the Prime Minister.
Does the Prime Minister, who as he said yesterday is the only one to have access to the ethics counsellor, intend to submit the case of the senior deputy governor of the Bank of Canada for an opinion and then report to the House on this important, serious and grave issue?
Mr. Speaker, I believe that the Bloc should listen to the message instead of attacking the messenger.
I am a little disappointed to hear what the opposition critic, who, by the way, is an honest man, has to say. The separatists have threatened to refuse to have anything to do with the banks or currency traders that tried to make economic forecasts regarding separation, they have stated that in their view allophones should not have the right to vote, and they rejected outright the C.D. Howe Institute's and Marcel Côté's analyses.
The truth is that all that the Bloc and the Parti Quebecois want is a monologue where the only voice which will be heard is their own.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the President of the Treasury Board and concerns pay equity.
Now that he has reached an agreement with the Professional Institute of the Public Service, is the minister prepared to try to reach an agreement with the Public Service Alliance of Canada which represents most of the lower paid public servants, many of whom are women?
Mr. Speaker, the government is solidly committed to equal pay for work of equal value. We demonstrated that when after many years of failed attempts we were able to reach an agreement with the professional institute with respect to pay equity for nurses, dietitians, occupational and physical therapists.
In relation to the public service alliance, we have had some informal discussions to this point. I would welcome more formal negotiations to try to bring about a resolution of the matter.
We now have a new methodology as provided through this latest of negotiations. We are committed to continuing on the path of bringing about pay equity within the public service.
Mr. Speaker, following yesterday's announcement of two more patronage appointments to the Senate, has the Prime Minister completely abandoned any thought of having elections to the Senate? Has he forgotten his red book promises of openness and fair play on how we choose our political representatives?
Mr. Speaker, I was totally in favour of having elections to the Senate and the Reform Party opposed it when it voted against the Charlottetown accord.
We are naming senators in the other house to represent the party that forms the government. We are in a situation at this time where we have had a bill before the Senate for eight
months. It is being blocked by a party that received only 3 per cent support in the latest byelections.
I need some Liberal senators who will have more sense than the ones who are blocking legislation that is very important and in the interest of taxpayers so that we will not give more money to the people who made a deal-
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, I remind the Prime Minister that the Charlottetown accord was a package deal with many flaws.
I also remind the Prime Minister that with provincial elections from time to time, in this case New Brunswick, the cost factor would be low and democracy is worth it.
Does the Prime Minister still find it revolting to offer the people of Canada a democratic vote on their choice of senator?
Mr. Speaker, it is a case where Reform Party members have thrown the baby out with the bath water. They did not realize what they were doing. They in effect blocked elections to the Senate. That is all. That is reality.
Now my prerogative is to name senators. It is a prerogative that I use and I name very good senators. The citizens who are selected always appreciate it very much. I remember very well the former Senator Manning.
Mr. Speaker, on Monday, the Minister of Canadian Heritage said, and I quote: "Mr. Beaudry is a very respectable person who does not engage in activities without first making sure that they are compatible with his duties".
My question is for the Prime Minister. How does he reconcile this statement made by his heritage minister and the admission by his personal ethics counselor, Mr. Wilson, that it was only after the fact that the chairman of the National Capital Commission consulted him?
Mr. Speaker, that question was answered yesterday. I am pleased to see that Mr. Wilson's opinion coincides with what we said in this House.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister must have misheard my question on account of the noise, because I was actually telling him that Mr. Wilson said just the opposite of what the heritage minister had said.
I have a second question, a second chance, for the Prime Minister.
How can the Prime Minister reconcile the opinion given by his ethics counselor, his personal counselor who maintains that this behaviour is in compliance with the code of ethics, when section 33 of the Public Service Employment Act states, and I quote: "No deputy head shall engage in work for or against a political party"? I would like an answer.
Mr. Speaker, there have been court rulings on this and I must add that the Quebec referendum is not a partisan issue, but an opportunity for every Quebec citizen to say whether or not he or she wants to remain in Canada. This is not necessarily a matter involving work for or against a political party.
I know full well that many people in the National Capital Region realize that separation would be disastrous for those who live on the Quebec side of this region, and I think that any citizen has the right to express an opinion on the future of his country without engaging in political partisanship.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. We understand that he is today in receipt of a letter from European Union president Santer regarding the turbot dispute on the east coast. Will he reveal the substance of the letter to the House and indicate what his response will be?
Mr. Speaker, I did not read from the communication. I said he expressed the view, as he did on the telephone, that we should reach a settlement very rapidly. He is giving instructions to his negotiator to do that very rapidly. I have given the same instructions to my negotiator. I hope we will find a solution very quickly.
Mr. Speaker, I would have preferred a little more substance to the answer but I do appreciate it nevertheless.
The minister of fisheries has repeatedly stated Spanish vessels should not be fishing on the nose and tail of the Grand Banks. Given that the Spanish often fish in waters 800 to 2,000 metres deep, it is uncertain where the minister is drawing the line. Could he tell us where this line is drawn, the line beyond which it is okay to fish?
Mr. Speaker, the line is drawn in the water. It is approximately what is referred to as the 1,000 metre line on a NAFO map. The Spanish vessels know exactly where it is. It is the area where most of the fishing activity has gone on.
A CP wire story has just come into the House. I received a copy and sent a copy to the Prime Minister as he sat down from answering the first question. It says the president of the European Union is indicating they are prepared to propose a series of new measures in order to ensure this fishery is controlled effectively. It goes on to say the president of the EU is prepared to consider figures, quota-wise, lower than the autonomous quota they have already set.
These are indications in the right direction; these are steps in the right direction. We would like to see this matter resolved by discussion. We have said that from day one. We do not want to see negotiations, which have gone on for a number of days now, trashed because a handful of captains want them trashed. It is not in their interest to have effective enforcement measures, to have lower and reasonable quotas that will sustain the stock.
We are waiting to see what comes out of these next days of discussion. Canada will stand firm for conservation.
Mr. Speaker, the farmers in my riding and right across Saskatchewan are watching with extreme anger as the members of the NDP and the Bloc hold up our settlement of the rail strike. Canada's reputation as a reliable supplier of grains and oilseeds is tarnished. We are in danger of losing our international markets.
The NDP and the Bloc refuse to co-operate for the good of our country. What will the minister of agriculture do for Canadian farmers?
Mr. Speaker, the full answer to that question could take several days but I will try to shorten the point because of the very serious issue before the House.
One week of lost rail service has the impact of holding up 500,000 tonnes of grain shipments through the Canadian Wheat Board valued at $83 million. When we add in the non-board grains the total goes up to very close to $100 million, plus $15 million in losses for domestic oilseed processors, plus another $5 million in losses for flour millers. The cost of that is in excess of $100 million for one week of lost rail service, not to mention the damage to our reputation as an international supplier.
The government wants the problem ended. We want it ended today. We implore the members of the NDP, who are so mouthy from the backbenches, and the Bloc to solve this problem now.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister or perhaps the Minister of Labour.
The record will show, if truth matters at all in this place, that since early Monday morning it has been up to the Bloc and the government to settle this issue, not the NDP.
Oh, oh.
I ask the hon. member to put his question.
Mr. Speaker, I am sure if the New Democrats had been in the position of the Bloc we would have had a settlement by now, as of old.
I ask the Minister of Labour whether she would be willing to consider the following changes in the legislation as a way of creating a context in which the legislation could be speeded up. I ask the minister whether she is interested in any agreement, or does she just want to play politics with this thing?
Would she consider changing the provision with respect to when VIA workers go back? Why can VIA workers not go back when CN workers go back? That is something all the unions agree on.
Would the minister consider changing the language of instruction to the-
I did hear a question. I am going to permit the hon. Minister of Labour to address herself to that question if she so desires.
Mr. Speaker, if the NDP gives its support to the legislation we can discuss that in debate.
That is precisely my question, Mr. Speaker. Is the government open to changes in the legislation like the things I have mentioned?
If it is perhaps there could be some understanding as to how the legislation could be changed and support could be given for pushing the legislation through, even though we object in principle-
The hon. Minister of Labour.
Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member understands the parliamentary process, he knows that legislation must first go through various stages. Then we can discuss any amendment which he may propose.
Mr. Speaker, several measures were taken by federal and provincial governments to allow the resumption of the commercial seal hunt. As
you know, the seal population is now close to four million, and urgent action is required to restore a balance in the ecosystem.
My question is for the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans. Since the commercial seal hunt can resume only if international markets offer adequate opportunities, which measures does the minister intend to take to counter the boycott of Canadian products getting under way in France to protest seal hunting?
Mr. Speaker, the member opposite would be well served to do what most Canadians are doing, including the Canadian sealers who live in the province of Quebec on the Magdalen Islands; namely to go about their business and participate in a modest and moderate seal hunt this year based on an adult animal.
There is no hunt for a white coat. There is no ship based hunt. It is a hunt by landsmen only. It is within the current quota that has been established for the last five years; in fact less than the quota of the last five years.
The way to respond to misinformation being propagated by a handful of people who see an opportunity to raise dollars for organizations that have been starved for those dollars for many years is simply to speak quietly but clearly the truth about this hunt.
Mr. Speaker, in spite of the minister's assurances regarding the minor impact of the misinformation campaign, in the past, European campaigns against seal hunting have had a disastrous impact on the Atlantic provinces, and especially on the Magdalen Islands.
Consequently, will the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans pledge to improve the seal products marketing policy by conducting an awareness campaign among importers regarding the consequences of the demographic explosion of the seal population?
Mr. Speaker. I congratulate the member for raising the question. It is an important one. The measures he is asking for have already been undertaken for sometime now by the government.
It is clear not only in North American but around the world that the number one conservation issue before Canadians and before people who care about sustainable harvest and development is the question of turbot.
I am ironically pleased that Greenpeace is taking a chartered vessel out of St. John's harbour tonight to protest the Spanish fishing of turbot. That is the real conservation issue.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Natural Resources.
The Geological Survey of Canada recently announced that it was moving its British Columbia office from Vancouver to Victoria. This will involve transferring more than 30 geologists and their support staff and breaking a 10-year lease worth about $6 million on new quarters.
In these times of economic restraint, how can the minister justify this boondoggle?
Mr. Speaker, in the last budget all departments were required to cut their expenditures considerably. The Department of Natural Resources is no exception to that. It is no longer possible for us to justify having two GSC installations in British Columbia. Therefore we will rationalize and amalgamate.
Mr. Speaker, that answer reminds me of that old song by Stompin' Tom Connors, "We'll Save a Bunch of Money Spending Money We Don't Got".
Most members of the mining fraternity who are still willing to work in British Columbia are based in Vancouver. They use the facilities of the GSC library, the map sales, and they consult with individual geologists.
What is the point in having a geological survey in B.C. at all if we are going to move it completely away from the people it is intended to serve? There are exactly four potential clients for this thing in Victoria-
The hon. minister.
Mr. Speaker, let me assure the hon. member yet again that we are looking at all aspects of this move.
I make one thing absolutely clear. We will rationalize and we will amalgamate the facilities of the GSC in British Columbia.
My colleagues, I would like to draw to members' attention the presence in the gallery of Mr. Vazken Manukian, a member of the Armenian Parliament and Chairman of the National Democratic Union Party of Armenia.
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, a point of order. During question period the member for Mission-Coquitlam, in making a comment with respect to the appointment of two senators, aroused my ire to some extent.
I hope you will understand, Mr. Speaker, that we have had some experiences recently with the Reform Party commenting on the appointment of Acadians to various positions in government.
I want to withdraw the remark I made to my colleague. I withdraw it unequivocally.
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to 17 petitions.
Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the sixth report of the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs.
Pursuant to the order of reference of Tuesday, September 20, 1994 your committee has considered Bill C-45, an act to amend the Corrections and Conditional Release Act, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Records Act, the Prisons and Reformatories Act and the Transfer of Offenders Act. Your committee has agreed to report it with amendments.
Mr. Speaker, while I am on my feet, I have the honour to present in both official languages the seventh report of the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs.
Pursuant to the order of reference of Tuesday, October 18, 1994 your committee has considered Bill C-41, an act toamend the Criminal Code (sentencing) and other acts inconsequence thereof. Your committee has agreed to report it with amendments.
Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to table the 68th report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs regarding Bill C-69, an act to provide for the establishment of electoral boundaries commissions and the readjustment of electoral boundaries, with amendments.
Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present, in both official languages, the third report of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and International Trade.
This report is about the nomination of Robert Fowler to the position of ambassador and permanent representative of Canada to the United Nations in New York.
Your committee reviewed the qualifications of the person appointed and declared him competent to perform the duties of his position.
Mr. Speaker, in light of the very serious crisis facing the country, namely the national rail strike, that is ongoing and which the government is seeking to end, I think you might find unanimous consent in the House for the following motion:

That, notwithstanding any standing order, immediately after the completion of private members' business on this day, the House shall revert to Government Orders for the purpose of continuing consideration of Bill C-77, an act to provide for the maintenance of railway operations and subsidiary services at the second reading stage, in committee of the whole, at the report stage and at third reading stage, provided that the House shall not adjourn this day except pursuant to a motion by a minister of the crown.

Does the hon. parliamentary secretary have the unanimous consent of the House to move the motion?
Agreed.
No.
There is not unanimous consent.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I want to make it clear that while there is opposition on the opposition side of the House to the motion, it comes from the Bloc Quebecois and the NDP and not the Reform Party.
Colleagues, I asked for unanimous consent. I did not get unanimous consent. The point of order of the member for Kindersley-Lloydminster was not a point of order. The hon. member for Mackenzie, is this a comment on the unanimous consent which I sought?
Mr. Speaker, it is a comment concerning the member for Kindersley-Lloydminster who is pretending to speak for the NDP. He does not.
Mr. Speaker, it is with great honour and pleasure that I rise pursuant to Standing Order 36 to present a petition regarding the parliamentary prayer in this House. The petition was originally signed by 20,593 people. The majority are from my riding of Saint John, New Brunswick, as well as from Newfoundland, Ontario, Saskatchewan, B.C., across this whole nation.
Due to various inaccuracies some were just certified today. I am presenting a petition signed by 15,268 names. I find the process to be a little questionable in that we decertify some petitions because of a lack of an-
I am sure the hon. member knows that we have a procedure in the House which is followed. This procedure was agreed to by the House of Commons. I would deem the petition to be presented by the hon. member and I accept it as such. I hope that the hon. member would keep her final comments very brief.
These petitions state that the opening prayer in the House of Commons should retain the traditional reference to Jesus Christ and that the traditional Lord's Prayer be reinstated at the closing of the opening prayer.
Therefore