As is our custom, we will now sing O Canada which will be led by the hon. member for Kootenay East.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today with good news for businesses in my riding of Cambridge, and congratulations for the Royal Bank and the Business Development Bank of Canada. These organizations recognized the needs of businesses in the industrial heartland of southern Ontario. They announced on March 1 that they are forming a strategic alliance to provide financing for small and medium size businesses.
The program will provide loans in the range of $50,000 to $500,000, filling a recognized gap that exists in traditional lending patterns. This financing program is targeted to businesses in the expansion phase, especially those in information technology, telecommunications, biotechnology, medical devices, plastics processing, auto parts, advanced manufacturing technology, new materials and the agribusiness and food processing industries.
I applaud the Royal Bank and the Business Development Bank of Canada for providing this tangible support for small and medium size businesses, the backbone of the Canadian economy.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Canadian Heritage has suggested the time has come for a review of the CRTC mandate. The fact that the government has intervened so many times in the last 18 months, obviously the review is long overdue.
The minister has suggested this review would be internal, a review conducted on the CRTC by the CRTC. Surely, this is a joke.
Last year the cabinet had no difficulty intervening in the CRTC process when satellite licensing became an issue. I suggest that was because Power DirecTv, also known as Desmarais, also known as the Prime Minister's son-in-law, was a licence bidder. In spite of cabinet interference, Power DirecTv still had to walk away from its licence.
Yesterday the cabinet was asked again to intervene with the CRTC on the satellite licensing process. It probably will not intervene this time because the Prime Minister's relatives are not involved.
This statement is an alert to the news media. Watch for the heritage minister to slip this cabinet non-decision passed you during the turmoil generated by today's budget story.
Mr. Speaker, for two years now, the father of tae kwon do in Quebec, Tran Trieu Quan, has been unfairly held in Vietnam, even after the Canadian Prime Minister's visit to that country. The Prime Minister merely inquired about the situation instead of demanding that Mr. Tran be released.
On behalf of the people of Quebec, we urge the Canadian government to realize that the diplomatic representations made to obtain the release of the Sainte-Foy businessman were unsuccessful.
We therefore call for the immediate suspension of any economic, cultural or social assistance to Vietnam until Mr. Tran is reunited with his family.
Mr. Speaker, it is very important that the government be aware of the need to protect Canadian citizens travelling abroad whether as business people or as tourists.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to bring to the attention of this House the deep concerns of many fishermen across the Scotia-Fundy area. I have been meeting with the fishermen in this area and on Monday I attended the round table in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia with the fishermen and officials from DFO.
For decades the fishing industry has been the backbone of many local communities in Atlantic Canada. The new fishing policies such as licence fee increases, a new professional core fishery, ITQs, and Bills C-98 and C-115 have threatened the very survival of the hand-line fishery. Serious flaws in the Oceans Act as well as the Fisheries Act must be addressed.
I call on this government before it proceeds any further to allow the Standing Committee on Fisheries and Oceans to travel from coast to coast so that fishermen can be heard and changes implemented before a way of life is destroyed.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the NDP caucus, I would like to say today that we deplore the intimidating tactics being employed by China off the coast of Taiwan. Why is it that superpowers cannot resist the urge to act the bully when it comes to small islands in their so-called sphere of influence.
The People's Republic of China should give up the notion that Taiwan is somehow part of China. Let China be China and let Taiwan be Taiwan. The Taiwanese people, including its aboriginal population, have a history and identity that is independent and distinct from the mainland. Any dispute of this fact must be resolved peacefully and with utmost respect for the democratically expressed wishes of the Taiwanese people.
It is time for China to put the political residue of the civil war behind it and realize that Taiwan, especially now that it is a democracy, is a country of its own and should no longer be seen as a refuge for the losers of a bygone battle.
Mr. Speaker, today's major dailies report that child prostitution is on the rise in some parts of the country.
This situation is totally unacceptable and we must vehemently condemn this undermining of Canadian children's basic rights. All those working with children must be made aware of this plague and co-ordinate their efforts to put an end to the activities of these exploitative and depraved individuals.
Current legislation must be vigorously enforced so that those who commit these repugnant crimes will be punished as they should be. If we need to take additional measures or to adopt amendments in order to make the fight against child prostitution and sexual abuse more effective, we should do so without delay.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to point out the contribution of some 30 Canadian businesses, which are contemplating setting up an in-house training program for high school, college and university graduates.
According to program officials, this program will create 50,000 entry level jobs for young people and help restore hope to a generation that would be only too pleased to play an active role in our society.
Also noteworthy is the fact that all funding for this program will be provided by the companies, to the tune of $12,000 per trainee per year. Only administrative expenses will have to be covered by the Canadian government.
This is a good move worth mentioning, especially after our Prime Minister recently called for greater co-operation between the private sector and government to promote job creation.
Mr. Speaker, this is International Women's Week, a week to mark progress on women's equality here in Canada and around the world.
Canada is respected as a world leader in advancing women's equality. One of our priorities is the recognition of human rights as the foundation of women's equality. Human rights are universal, inalienable and indivisible.
The International Centre for Human Rights and Democratic Development has chosen International Women's Day, March 8, to present the first Florence Bird award. It is an honour that recognizes efforts to promote women's rights as human rights in the media. It is a fitting tribute to the remarkable Canadian journalist and activist who headed the Royal Commission on the Status of Women almost 30 years ago.
Mr. Speaker, last week, Stéphane Dion, the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs, travelled to British Columbia, where he tried to sell the distinct society concept to the people of this region, who are bitterly opposed to it.
In an attempt to reassure them, he stated that recognizing Quebec as a distinct society confers no additional powers on Quebec and, therefore, does not take anything away from other Canadians. What is the use of talking about distinct society if it is a meaningless concept? Will Mr. Dion keep talking about a worthless clause? Some other weekend, will he try to convince Quebecers that a distinct society clause could bring about the changes promised by the no side in the days leading up to the October 30 referendum?
Frankly, Mr. Dion should stop using the phrase "distinct society", which has become trite and has lost any meaning when he uses it. For the moment, he should focus on how the federal government could change how the powers are shared.
Mr. Speaker, talk about slash and burn. Some disabled Canadians, through no fault of their own, have found themselves indebted to the federal government.
Revenue Canada changed the forms for claiming the federal disability tax credit. These disabled Canadians, after submitting the new forms, were deemed ineligible for the credit as they were no longer considered to be disabled. Figure that one out. They were also told to refund to the government the credit they had received from previous years, with interest.
One constituent whose husband is severely disabled wrote to me saying:

Revenue Canada wrote us February 2, 1996. They stated that our disability deduction had been disallowed for 1994 and we owed them $1,200 including $100 interest. The amount had to be paid by February 20, 1996 or more interest would be added-$1,200 is an entire month's paycheque for us.

Will the Minister of Revenue show compassion and review this unfair tax policy? So who is slashing and burning? The Liberals are the experts.
Mr. Speaker, the concept of gender equality is at the very heart of the values in which Canadians firmly believe.
We recognize that women face particular problems which must be eliminated in order to ensure equality. Since women are confronted to situations that differ from those that men face, the federal government pledged to take these differences into account in the development, review and implementation of federal initiatives.
The guide to policy development, which is based on a comparative analysis between the two sexes and which was released earlier this week, will be a key component in the fulfilment of our commitment.
I ask all members to join me in stressing the vital contribution of women to our society's success. Together, let us make sure that women and men can co-operate as equals in the building of a better world.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in the honour of millions of women and men who are working toward gender equality around the globe. During International Women's Week we are invited to reflect on women's progress in all fields of achievement.
In keeping with our lead role in talks at the Beijing conference on women last year, Canada must continue to fight for women's equality in the face of dramatic social change. It is up to all of us to ensure that the commitments made at the Beijing conference are honoured.
Mr. Speaker, in the next few days I will be reintroducing in the House my private member's bill to create a federal intervenor funding act for Canada.
Intervenor funding as I have proposed it allows all Canadians to have an opportunity to have a direct voice in government decision making. Too often, hearings in front of federal boards and agencies have been dominated by those wealthy enough to hire expert witnesses. What of the other Canadians who are left in the cold by a lack of funds to represent their legitimate concerns? They often go unheard.
Every voice that is left silent is a voice that is being excluded. If we really mean that we want to give our constituents a voice to allow them to be heard in the public interest, then I ask all members on both sides of the House to support a federal intervenor funding program.
Mr. Speaker, Canada and the United States are currently involved in a dispute, under NAFTA, concerning eggs, milk and poultry. The U.S. is invoking chapter 20 of NAFTA to challenge the tariff equivalents obtained by Canada as a replacement to the supply management system in these sectors.
We recently learned that, should Canada's position be rejected by NAFTA's dispute settlement panel, some 138,000 jobs in Canada and Quebec will have disappeared by the year 2000 in Canadian agricultural sectors. In Quebec alone, there are 45,000 jobs at risk.
Given what is at stake, we cannot afford to lose. The Bloc Quebecois will continue to keep a close eye on the government's handling of this important issue.
Mr. Speaker, the new minister of fisheries announced that lobster traps will have a new rectangular escape mechanism. This is the Liberal way of providing early release to incarcerated lobsters.
Holy mackerel. Early release for prisoners and now lobsters. There is something fishy here. Murderers who get life can get early release in 15 years and now lobsters getting early release right away. Let us put some mussels behind incarceration and clam up on early release.
The issue of early release for criminals is not a red herring; it is not for the halibut; it is for real. As this government sits on its perch and contemplates the process of early release, I invite the smaller Liberal fish over here to come out from under the rock and stop porpoisely trying to skate around the issue.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to bring to the attention of the House the important work being done by a group of young people in my riding of Saskatoon-Humboldt. The Humboldt branch of Students Against Drunk Driving, known as SADD, ably led by Jeremy Elder is planning a march to be held in Humboldt on Friday, March 15, 1996.
The purpose of the march is to draw attention to the social and economic costs of impaired driving. Stated like that, the consequences of drunk driving do not seem that consequential, much less horrific than when expressed in human terms. Consider instead the grief of a parent who loses a child to a drunk driver, or the fear of a small child waiting alone in the dark in a car outside the local beer parlour wondering if Dad will be able to make his way home, this time.
I know my colleagues in the House will join me in saluting the efforts of Jeremy Elder, the other members of SADD Humboldt, parent volunteers, Mayor Doug Still and principal Ron Ford.
Mr. Speaker, Friday is International Women's Day. I would like to wish a happy day to all Canadian women and to congratulate them on the progress made on promoting women's rights.
But women are vulnerable. For example, 52,000 North American women die of breast cancer each year. In the ten years of the Vietnam war, 48,000 women died on the battlefield. Over the same period, more than 300,000 American women died of breast cancer. This terrible disease is usually hereditary, but no one is safe.
Last year, in Vancouver, more than 3,000 people showed that they care about other people's lives by taking part in the walk against breast cancer. We must remind everyone, and particularly women, to be on the lookout and to learn to recognize the symptoms of this disease, which can be beaten if detected early enough.
A word of warning for all but especially to women that life is often up to us. Congratulations to the BC Breast Cancer Foundation for its work in this area.
Mr. Speaker, as part of the pink ribbon campaign to support breast cancer research, I would like to take this opportunity to encourage all Canadians to increase their awareness of this insidious disease.
According to statistics provided by the National Cancer Institute of Canada, an estimated 17,700 women in Canada will develop
breast cancer in 1996, while more than 5,000 Canadian women will die from breast cancer this year.
All women are at risk for breast cancer. In fact, one in nine Canadian women will be diagnosed with this disease in their lifetime.
While women cannot do much about certain links to breast cancer, such as a genetic predisposition, research has indicated that there are a number of factors linked to the risk of developing this complex disease.
Let us show our support for breast cancer research.
Mr. Speaker, the conflict between the U.S. and Cuba is heating up. Canada is now caught up in it, as the target of the virulent attack by Senator Jesse Helms. The crisis now developing between Canada and the U.S. is liable to have very serious economic repercussions.
My question is for the Prime Minister. Does he agree that the American reaction affects Canada first and foremost, because Canada is Cuba's principal trade partner, according to recent figures?
Mr. Speaker, I had the opportunity to discuss this problem with the President of the United States last week. I informed him that it was unacceptable to Canada that legislation passed by the U.S. Congress could apply outside that country.
On Monday and Tuesday, I had an opportunity to discuss the same problem with 13 Caribbean heads of government. In the joint press release issued at the conference, it was stated unanimously that laws with extraterritorial jurisdiction are unacceptable under international law.
Obviously, Mr. Helms' statement speaks for itself. My conversations with the president indicate that he is aware of Canada's objections, and that the bill is currently before Congress. We hope that people will become aware of the long term consequences if, at the international level, all countries took the same kind of initiative as the U.S. has.
Mr. Speaker, given the current protectionist atmosphere in the U.S., does the Prime Minister not feel that, over and above the conflict with Cuba, we are dealing here with a challenge to the very terms of the Free Trade Agreement?
Mr. Speaker, I think that this bill reflects the atmosphere in the aftermath of the Cuba-U.S. incident. As the House is aware, we have clearly expressed our disapproval to the Government of Cuba concerning their attack on civilian aircraft flying outside Cuban territory. At any rate, the International Civil Aviation Organization is addressing the problem today in Montreal.
I have learned from experience that U.S. pre-election fever often leads to statements that are more heated than they would be at other times. After the election, perhaps Senator Helms or others will be more approachable.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Minister for International Trade made a statement here in this House in which he expressed a hope that the president will use the discretion available to him to reduce the impact of the bill. Should that hope not be fulfilled, however, what action plan does Canada have in mind to protect the thousands of jobs that would be affected?
Mr. Speaker, after a law is passed in the United States there is always room for the administration to take some precise action. I discussed that possibility with the president and he will look into it. We do not think this law will be in operation for many months to come, not before the end of the summer.
Therefore we will see how the administration deals with this piece of legislation and we will advise.
Mr. Speaker, the commission of inquiry on Somalia is just as muddled as the events it is investigating.
On February 29, the Minister of Justice said in this House that, in order to avoid a conflict of interest, and I repeat, in order to avoid a conflict of interest, he had asked certain individuals to be represented by counsel of their choice rather than counsel from the Department of Justice.
How does the Minister of Finance explain the fact that the highest ranking officers currently under investigation, that is, Lieutenant-General Gordon Reay, General James Gervais, General John de Chastelain and Admiral John Anderson along with the former deputy minister, Robert Fowler, continue to be represented by counsel from his department?
Mr. Speaker, it should be remembered that the commission itself, when it undertook its work, said it would focus the inquiry on the senior members of the forces.
In recent months it has interviewed some of the more junior ranking officers and enlisted personnel. This matter came up in the House last week and I take this occasion to repeat what I said then. The fundamental principle on which we have operated is that where interests conflict separate representation will be afforded.
In 13 cases so far we have arranged to have separate lawyers retained and paid for by the Government of Canada so that individual interest can be represented.
Whenever in the course of an interview or in the course of testimony it becomes clear that there is a difference between the interest of that person and the institutional interest of the government, we ask that the proceedings stop and we advise the person of the right to separate counsel. If the person makes that choice, we arrange for them to get a separate lawyer.
As I said last week, if the hon. member is aware of any case in which justice is not being served because that process is not being followed, I encourage them to tell me about it so that we can redress it immediately.
Mr. Speaker, if the Minister of Justice does not consider this a flagrant conflict of interest, what does he think of the fact that lawyers from his department are concocting both the prosecution and the defence of the senior ranking officers and that, moreover, they are sitting at the same table during the hearings and regularly consulting each other about the course the hearing is taking?
Mr. Speaker, I am afraid I do not understand the point the hon. member is trying to make. I hear words being used but they do not add up, at least in my mind, to an effective criticism of the process.
The commission is represented by separate counsel, not government counsel, paid for by the people. The government and the Department of National Defence are represented by justice lawyers.
As I have said, if others appear who happen to be present or former employees of government who have a different interest they will be separately represented.
The lawyers acting for the commission are not government lawyers, not justice lawyers. If the hon. member has a specific concern in mind I invite her to write me about it. I will look into it and I will respond to it directly. However, at the moment I am not able to see in anything she said today grounds for complaint.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of Canadians and constituents of Reform members particularly I again state our condemnation of the shooting down of two private U.S. planes by Cuba. I also state our equally strong condemnation of the American anti-Cuba trade bill that encroaches on our sovereignty and the anti-Canadian statements by Senator Jesse Helms.
Surely it is time for the government to do more than wring its hands and do something decisive to protect Canadian interests from these disturbing American actions.
Can the Prime Minister explain why his personal appeal to the U.S. president and the personal intervention of his trade minister have failed to produce any support for the Canadian position in Washington, thereby placing Canadian interests, jobs and trade at risk?
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to see the hon. leader of the third party supporting our position. We have made all the representations we think are appropriate at this time.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs will talk with Mr. Christopher later this week. As Mr. Helms is good a friend of Mr. Gingrich, perhaps the leader of the third party could call Mr. Gingrich and ask the Republicans not to vote for that bill.
Mr. Speaker, the protectionist speeches given in the American Congress are a carbon copy of those made by Mr. Turner and others in this country in 1988. Perhaps the Prime Minister could arrange for those speeches to be burned-
Hear, hear.
The actions the Prime Minister has mentioned here today, phone calls to the president, media releases, negotiations at the highest levels, are essentially political actions to deal with this problem.
When the government has taken the political route to dealing with trade disputes the U.S. has usually been the winner, as with the grain imports case. When Canada has used the practical and business like dispute settlement mechanism in NAFTA Canada has tended to be the winner.
Has the Prime Minister instructed his trade minister to launch an immediate challenge to the Helms-Burton bill under the dispute settlement mechanism of the NAFTA?
Mr. Speaker, the bill has not been passed. We should let the bill pass, see what the president will do with the bill and how it will be applied.
In terms of trade relations with the United States, we have done very well. At this moment we have the biggest surplus we have ever had with the United States.
The biggest trade relations in the world are between Canada and the United States and so there are always problems of this nature. We have been reasonably successful at resolving them. Sometimes we refer disputes to panels under the NAFTA. We might use this route if needed once the bill is passed. Then we will see the effects.
However, we have done what we can to this point. I am delighted that the leader of the Reform Party is supporting this government. I will send a copy of Hansard to Newt Gingrich.
Mr. Speaker, it is quite evident why Canada's trade interests are not being properly represented. If the Prime Minister would go back to the NAFTA and read the dispute settlement mechanism he would see what it says: "The dispute settlement provisions of this chapter shall apply whenever a party considers that an actual or proposed measure of another party would be inconsistent with this agreement".
It is quite clear that the Helms-Burton bill in the American Congress is a proposed measure in violation of the NAFTA.
Why does the Prime Minister not direct his trade minister to file an application to the dispute settlement mechanism with respect to this bill?
Mr. Speaker, the bill not been passed yet.
When we formed the government there were 130 grievances between the two governments. The number is down to below 10 at this moment because we have done it in the proper fashion. We believe that if we have a civilized discussion with the Americans we will probably have a better result. Then it will be time to move if we feel we are going nowhere.
However, I do not think Canada will gain a lot in losing its cool.
Mr. Speaker, in 1990, the voice of Radio-Canada was silenced in the regions, and in 1996, if the government decides to eliminate advertising, as recommended by the Juneau report, the voice of Radio-Canada affiliates in Abitibi-Témiscamingue, eastern Quebec, the Saguenay-Lac Saint-Jean, the Mauricie and the Eastern Townships will be silenced.
My question is for the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Canadian Heritage. Since the recommendations of the Juneau report will likely result in the closure of Radio-Canada affiliates, will the Minister of Canadian Heritage categorically reject these proposals?
Mr. Speaker, contrary to the request of the Bloc, we will not reject all the recommendations of the Juneau report, because there are good things in them. I would like the member opposite to get involved in a good debate to find ways to provide long term funding for Radio-Canada instead of dumping on the Juneau report.
Mr. Speaker, the three recommendations in the Juneau report are even identified by the report's author as the weakest ones.
Given that Radio-Canada's contract with its affiliates ends March 31, does the Minister of Canadian Heritage intend to calm the fears of the people in the affiliate stations by declaring a moratorium on the recommendations that affect them?
Mr. Speaker, the member opposite's proposal is unreasonable. He is asking us to reject the recommendations of the Juneau report, when one of them was long term funding for Radio-Canada. Clearly I am not going to reject the recommendations of the report. I am in fact working to have it in effect shortly.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased the Prime Minister has learned to keep his cool.
It is an election year in the U.S. and it has decided Canada is an easy target for its bravado and bullying. Not only have Canadians had to put up with the Jesse Helms anti-Canadian rhetoric, but today on CBC a U.S. congressman said Canada had violated international law by imposing fees on the inside passage, which puts us in the same category as Cuba.
When will the Minister of Foreign Affairs stop allowing Canada to be a patsy to the bravado and bullying of foreign politicians and forcefully defend Canadian sovereignty on trade and on our territory?
Mr. Speaker, I thought the hon. member had now spent sufficient time in politics to not get overly disturbed when the odd congressman, senator or other representatives find their way into the Canadian
media. They do not reflect the policy of the U.S. government or its administration.
Furthermore, we have made it very clear, as we have been doing for the past many years, that the inside waters are our waters and that there will be no payment to the United States of any compensation. Those waters are ours to determine what will happen within them.
Mr. Speaker, the government has caved in on softwood lumber. It has failed to stop the Helms-Burton bill and when the Americans unilaterally declared the B.C. inside passage to be international waters, the Liberal government, as we heard yesterday, simply sent a message. This is some defence of our sovereignty.
The Liberal red book said: "A Liberal government will end the Conservative's junior partnership relationship with the United States and reassert our proud tradition of independent foreign policy".
What happened between the writing of the red book and what we are observing now?
Mr. Speaker, what seems to have happened is that the reform party was down holding hands and making sweet talk with the Republicans in the U.S. Congress and perhaps got the false impression that the entire Canadian public reflects the position of the Reform Party that there is no sovereignty in Canada.
The reality is that the Prime Minister has taken the lead in mobilizing Caribbean and Latin American countries. We have the European Union on our side. The Russians are on our side and countries around the world are on our side. We are leading the charge against the extraterritoriality of that bill. We just wish Reform would get on side.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the minister of defence.
Two days ago, the defence minister stated in this House that the suicide rate in the Canadian Forces is, and I quote: "about half the rate of Canadian society as a whole".
The reality is as follows: in the last four years on record, the Canadian average was 13.2 per 100,000 people, compared to more than 20 for the same number of people in the armed forces.
In light of these facts, does the minister still stand by the statement he made two days ago in this House denying any problem in the armed forces?
Mr. Speaker, knowing the hon. member, he has been quite selective with the information he has presented to the House. I stand by what I said.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to tell the minister that the information I have comes from Lieutenant-General Paul Addy and was published by Le Devoir in April 1995.
The minister is still trying to play down this scourge. Will he finally give this problem the importance, the attention it requires?
Mr. Speaker, I repeat, the incidence of suicide in the Canadian Armed Forces is about half that of the population as a whole. I would like to see the hon. member's data because I am sure they have not been correctly presented to the House.
What concerns me is the motive behind the hon. member's playing on the whole question of suicides in the armed forces as they play against the general population. I can only suspect this is another measure with which the Bloc Quebecois wants to destabilize Canada's military.
Neither in the questions nor in the answers should we attribute motives. I ask members to keep that in mind.
Mr. Speaker, in 1985 an American coast guard icebreaker transited Canadian arctic waters without our permission.
In response, the current Prime Minister said the government had been humiliated and that the whole nation had been humiliated by this challenge to our sovereignty.
What will the Prime Minister do now that once again the U.S. is threatening to, in his words, humiliate us by challenging our sovereignty?
Mr. Speaker, I strongly recommend to the hon. member that before he uses that kind inflammatory language he look specifically at the so-called U.S. legislation, the fishermen's protective act. It does not authorize the United States to use the coast guard against Canadian fishing boats. That is called a finding. It has no legal impact or legal authorization.
I suggest to the hon. member that before he begins to beat the drums and raise the temperature he read the legislation and realize that Canada has full rights, which we have exercised and continue to exercise, and full sovereignty over our inside waters.
Mr. Speaker, the language is the same as in 1985. Yesterday the transport minister said: "You cannot win with the Americans with rash and foolish behaviour". He should have given that advice to Brian Tobin before he slapped a transit fee on the Americans.
Negotiations over salmon with the U.S. broke down yesterday. There is no sign of an agreement. Now the U.S. has turned a fish dispute into a sovereignty showdown.
When will the government wake up to the needs of the west coast and figure out some way to undo the damage done by Brian Tobin, damage that could result in a violation of Canadian sovereignty?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member knows full well that the former minister of fisheries, now the distinguished premier of Newfoundland, is one of the most ardent and effective representative this country has had in defending Canadian interests. We know full well that the present minister of fisheries from Newfoundland will follow in that tradition.
I want to point out a fundamental error in the hon. member's comments. Negotiations have not broken down. Both the United States and ourselves issued statements yesterday stating that negotiations will continue. We will continue to talk about a new fishing regime for this year's fishing season. We will continue to work out the criteria and the formula for a long term solution.
We believe in finding effective solutions to these problems, not engaging in wild rhetoric.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration.
On February 12, the Bloc Quebecois demanded that the Canadian government suspend all deportations of refugee claimants to Algeria, a country on the brink of civil war. Yet, as recently as yesterday, immigration officials were still deporting people to that country.
Does the minister agree that it is unacceptable to continue deporting people to Algeria and essential to review the cases of all Algerian nationals in light of the explosive situation prevailing in that country?
Mr. Speaker, as you know, there is an advisory committee that examines conditions in countries to which people are to be deported. Whenever this committee meets, it reviews the situation as a whole, what is happening inside the country, how past deportations went, whether the situation changes from day to day, and whether or not deportations should be temporarily suspended. In summary, every time someone is deported from Canada after having exhausted all avenues of appeal provided for in Canadian legislation, we assess the potential risks of sending this person back to his or her country. If we do send someone back, it is with the assurance that this person will be able to go home without facing persecution.
At this time-which does not mean that the situation will not change in a few days, next week or next month-we are still deporting people to Algeria.
Mr. Speaker, given the climate of violence prevailing in Algeria, does the minister recognize that Algerian nationals should benefit from a suspension of deportation measures just like the citizens of Rwanda, Burundi and Afghanistan?
Mr. Speaker, each situation is assessed on its own merits. Again, the situation is reviewed on a periodic basis. Even in the case of Burundi or Rwanda, the situation will be assessed regularly week after week. All deportation suspensions are temporary. In this case, there is no temporary suspension for the time being.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State responsible for the Federal Office of Regional Development.
Now that the firm Aéroports de Montréal has indicated what its plans are for the two airports, could the government tell us whether it is prepared to grant free zone status to Mirabel to promote and ensure its long term economic development?
Mr. Speaker, I thank my hon. colleague for his question.
As you know, last December, we tabled Bill C-102 to enhance Canada's duty referral program.
This new legislation provides for the creation of so-called free zones, which are actually free trade zones. Businesses and regions looking to implement very innovative projects may request the designation of such zones. Officials of the Federal Office of Regional Development and of Aéroports de Montréal are currently
considering, in collaboration with Revenue Canada, whether or not a free zone could be created under the new legislation to help the Mirabel area.
Mr. Speaker, during the last election the Liberals quite clearly stated that they would scrap, kill, abolish the GST.
Yesterday the finance minister waved the red book around, somewhat like a white flag, and said that the government meant harmonize, not scrap. In fact it meant augment, not abolish. Canadians know what they heard from Liberals during the last election campaign. They simply will not forget it.
My question is for the Prime Minister. When will he live up to his promise and the promise of members of his caucus, to scrap, that is kill, that is abolish the GST, unlike what he says on page 22 of the red book?
Mr. Speaker, I have a book that is quite well known across the country.
On page 22 it said: "A Liberal government will replace the GST with a system that generates equivalent revenue, is fair to the consumers and small business and minimizes disruption to small business, and promotes federal-provincial co-operation and harmonization". That is the promise.
Members can quote directly from whatever books they like, but I would ask them to please not show them off. We are going to get into the use of props.
Mr. Speaker, thank you. Red is dead, because here are some of the things they said during the election: "I would abolish the GST".
Take your jacket off, Deb.
Time to be true blue.
Oh, oh.
The hon. member for Beaver River.
Mr. Speaker, I would hate to think during International Women's Week that I was being undressed in the House of Commons by this government.
During the election-
Oh, oh.
One day we are being seduced; the next day we are being undressed. Before we go much further, would the member put her question.
Mr. Speaker, during the election campaign, regardless of what was in the red book, the finance minister said: "I will abolish the GST". "We hate it and we will kill it," said the Prime Minister. "Scrap it," said the revenue minister. And of course there are those words that we have all come to love: "If the GST is not abolished, I will resign", said the Deputy Prime Minister.
Why is the government going to expand and hide the GST in a secret supertax, instead of just plain killing it?
Mr. Speaker, I have to deal with the bare facts.
Hear, hear.
We have put in writing that the GST will not be there and will be replaced by a system that will be a better one.
As it is the tradition, I can table the red book and the hon. member can table the red coat and then she would be dressed in black which will show the future of the Reform Party.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans. When the Châteauguay River overflowed in late January, it caused approximately $3 million in damage and forced the evacuation of 1,063 residents. All experts agree that the damage would not have been as substantial had air cushion vehicles been available.
Does the minister agree that this situation could have been avoided if more Canadian Coast Guard air cushion vehicles had been available and could he confirm plans to procure two additional crafts for the Coast Guard?
Mr. Speaker, we regret very much that this took place. The coast guard has only one air cushion vehicle, a Hovercraft, in the region and it was in refit at the time. It was January and that was the normal time to refit these kinds of crafts. I think the hon. member would agree that it was impossible for any other vessel to get there because of the depth concerned.
I will take into consideration what the hon. member has said. We will try to make that craft available as much as possible, given the contingencies that one would expect under the circumstances.
As a supplementary, Mr. Speaker, given that the St. Lawrence region has only one air cushion vehicle in operation at present, could the minister promise
in this House that the St. Lawrrence region will have two such craft in operation by next fall?
Mr. Speaker, the provision of emergency services in the tributaries of the St. Lawrence River, as in other rivers in Canada, is the responsibility of the province. The Canadian Coast Guard provides ice-breaking services in the tributaries at the request of the Quebec ministry.
I will take into consideration what he has said and we will do what we can with the resources that we have.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Canada has a long tradition of meeting its obligations to the United Nations in full and on time. It was $270 million last year. Thanks to political manoeuvring in the Security Council, Canada is going to be stuck with the full cost of sending additional troops to Haiti for four months, $24 million.
Under those circumstances, will the minister consider withholding $24 million from our other UN assessments in order to compensate us for this unjust cost?
Mr. Speaker, I regret very much the attitude demonstrated by the hon. member.
The initiative taken at the United Nations a week ago to arrange for an agreement with the security council to continue and extend the UN presence is one of the most important contributions Canada has made to the UN for the rebuilding of that country. Haiti is desperately struggling to rebuild a democracy where there has been a dictatorship for the last several decades.
For the hon. member of the Reform Party to cast aspersions and say that we should find some way of denying the value of that contribution really demonstrates his misunderstanding of the value that Canada places in the UN, on the building of democracy in our hemisphere and in ensuring that we have a stable, orderly system in the world.
Mr. Speaker, I hope you award prizes for irrelevant answers to serious questions because I sure heard one there.
Since the hon. minister wants to roll over and play dead on my first suggestion, in 1994-95 Canadian foreign aid to China was $162 million. Since it was China that blocked the security council's vote on the funding of the Haiti mission, would the minister at least consider withholding $24 million of aid from that country, which by the way has a vibrant economy and is in no way a legitimate target for our largesse?
Mr. Speaker, there are two parts to my reply. First, if the hon. member took the time he would recognize that China has become in the last several years one of the most important trading partners for Canada. We have several billions of dollars engaged with it. Much of that has been generated by the fact that the foreign aid development budget has been used to help Canadian business with startup funds which will lead to much broader contracts at a later date. It has been one of the best investments we have made.
Second, the other part of that aid has provided major assistance in the development of institutions to aid women, children and judicial institutions in China and to help in exchanges for education and training.
The attitude displayed by the hon. member is the worst kind of isolationism that I have heard in this House in an awfully long time.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Health.
The largest petition in the history of the Alberta Legislative Assembly was presented last week. Eighty thousand Albertans representing 458 towns, cities and villages demonstrated overwhelming support for the five basic principles of medicare. They rejected two-tier health care and called for the maintenance of national standards.
What will the minister do to protect Canada's publicly funded health care system and to ensure that the principles of the Canada Health Act are honoured by all provinces, even Alberta?
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for her question. The House should extend congratulations to those 80,000 Albertans who signed petitions in hockey arenas, shopping malls and homes across that province to give support to what we know as medicare.
The members of Parliament from that great province realize fully that 75 per cent of its population support the five basic principles of the Canada Health Act. They do not support the two-tier system which is being advocated by the Reform Party of Canada. They support unquestionably the principles of universality, access, affordability and free access to all Canadians. It is high time that the Reform Party got on side with the general population of the province of Alberta.
Mr. Speaker, the International Development Research Centre, which comes under the responsibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, apparently decided, recently, to stop publishing the French edition of its magazine Explore , which, for reasons of economy, would only be available in English, from now on.
How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs explain the fact that an agency for which he is responsible is contravening the Official Languages Act, and does he intend to reverse that decision as soon as possible? If he does not, it is clear that francophones will once again be the ones affected by federal cuts.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hon. member for drawing that particular issue to my attention. I do not accept that an official publication issued by any agency of this government should not be distributed in both languages. I will look into it immediately and report back to the hon. member.
Mr. Speaker, the lousy deal on Churchill Falls probably will cost Labrador $50 billion over the life of the contract.
The ministry yesterday said that the internal trade document was going to settle the problem but that document is two years old. Last September it was supposed to have a draft agreement on the energy sector and that did not happen. Meanwhile $2 billion a day is going down the tubes and Labrador is being shafted.
When will the minister be prepared to move to help Labrador get what it deserves, which is reliance on its own natural resources?
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his question.
Let me assure him that as recently as March 5 the federal government, provincial governments and utilities involved have met to continue discussions in relation to this issue.
The federal government does not wish to usurp that which is the rightful authority of the provinces but it will continue to work with the provinces in a constructive fashion to reduce trade barriers wherever they exist.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
The minister has said that forestry will be transferred to the Yukon government on April 1, 1996. I would like to ask the minister if this is still the department's intention and if so, what kind of negotiations have been finalized with the Council for Yukon First Nations and the Yukon government?
Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows we had a lot of difficulty with the forestry because the price was 20 or 30 cents per entity which would normally have cost $20 or $30 in B.C. or Alberta. Over a period of time we increased the stumpage rates and put some of it into what is called the Elijah Smith Sustainable Fund which was named for an elder in the Yukon, as she knows.
The problem is that the First Nations in the Yukon do not feel that they had been adequately consulted in the process of devolution, so I have slowed down the process. If I am going to err, I am going to err on the side of the First Nations in the Yukon.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans.
Last year the federal government received $60 million in GST revenues as a result of the spending of sports anglers on the Great Lakes. At the same time the exploding population of sea lamprey in the lakes has the potential to eliminate sports fishing.
Can the minister advise the House whether his department is proceeding to decrease, maintain or increase Canada's contribution to the binational Great Lakes Fisheries Commission which controls sea lamprey programs?
Mr. Speaker, I wish to assure the hon. member that the government is very interested and concerned about the control of sea lampreys in the Great Lakes.
In this fiscal year we will be contributing $3.8 million which basically restores the level to that of earlier years. There was an increase last year but we are going back to earlier levels.
It is the view of the Department of Fisheries and Oceans that in all fisheries the use of public resources, particularly those managed by public expense, should really command a licence fee. To that end, we are dealing with the province of Ontario to look for ways to further assist in the control of predators like the sea lamprey, for
more effective control in sports fishing and other kinds of fishing that are affected by these predators.
This brings question period to a close.
Madam Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to 12 petitions presented during the first session.
Madam Speaker, I have the honour to present the third report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs regarding the membership of the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs and associate members of various standing committees.
If the House gives its consent, I intend to move concurrence in this third report later this day.

moved for leave to introduce Bill C-7, an act to establish the Department of Public Works and Government Services, and to 