As is our practice on Wednesday we will now sing O Canada, and we will be led by the hon. member for Regina—Lumsden—Lake Centre.
Mr. Speaker, as October was breast cancer awareness month, I wanted to join with a number of other colleagues in promoting the need for women to have regular breast examinations early to ensure early detection and treatment of this disease.
Breast cancer is the most common form of cancer threatening Canadian women today. This year alone 19,300 new cases of the disease will be diagnosed in Canada and 5,300 more Canadian women will die of it.
It is fitting then that the Minister of Health has recently announced the renewal of the Canadian breast cancer initiative which will now enjoy stable, ongoing funding of $7 million per year.
Breast cancer awareness month is an initiative of the Canadian Cancer Society to inform Canadians, men and women alike, of the severity and the magnitude of this disease.
As breast cancer awareness month has drawn to a close, I know that all hon. colleagues will want to join me in congratulating the Canadian Cancer Society for its unrelenting efforts to educate all Canadians about the tragedy of breast cancer and how we can reduce the risks this disease poses to all women.
Mr. Speaker, there is an old joke that asks “What do you get when you play country and western music backward?” The answer is that you get your girl back, you get your dog back, you get your truck back, and, if it were not for this Liberal government, you would even get your guns back.
Mr. Speaker, do you know what you get if you play it forward, if you add interesting and insightful commentary, timely and informative news programs and combine it all with community service? The answer to that question is that you get radio station CJVR in Melfort, Saskatchewan which was just named country music station of the year.
Mr. Speaker, when you are in my riding of Prince Albert you will be royally entertained, amused and informed by tuning into 750 CJVR.
I know that members of this House will want to join me in extending personal congratulations to manager Gary Fitz and staff on winning this award not just once, not just twice, but for an unprecedented third time in a row.
Mr. Speaker, Michael Heintzman, a reporter with the North Shore Sentinel in Thessalon in my riding, has earned first prize two years in a row in the best historical story competition from the Canadian Community Newspapers Association.
The 1997 award was in recognition of his articles on Remembrance Day which appeared in a special section of the Sentinel that year. This beautifully produced section highlighted the tremendous contribution of local citizens, towns and villages of our region during the great wars.
Later today Mr. Heintzman will travel to Europe with our colleague, the Minister of Veterans Affairs, and a group of Canadian World War I veterans to participate in the commemorative ceremonies taking place to mark the 80th anniversary of the end of World War I.
Mr. Heintzman will have an excellent opportunity to experience this momentous event with a group of highly respected and decorated Canadian veterans. I look forward to reading his observations when he returns.
I am very proud of his work and that of the North Shore Sentinel in my riding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in the House today to commend three Honduran firefighters who have been residing in my riding of Moncton—Riverview—Dieppe for the past three months.
They have been undergoing firefighting training so that they can return to Honduras to establish the first national firefighters school in their country. They were due to leave Friday when they heard of the disaster which killed thousands of people in their country, many of them friends and relatives, and left countless others homeless.
The building that was supposed to house the firefighting school is in pieces and many people are in desperate need of assistance.
Along with two constituents, Paul Jennings and Paul McFadden, they are returning to Honduras tomorrow to help their country. As well, all of the fire stations in the greater Moncton area have set up collection points to gather supplies.
I am extremely proud of the people of Moncton—Riverview—Dieppe for all they have done to assist the three Honduran firefighters and the victims of Hurricane Mitch.
Mr. Speaker, Remembrance Day is a time for reflection.
My father served in the second world war with the Argyle and Sutherland Highlanders and he imparted a great appreciation for what people have done in wartime and the sacrifices that they made for their country and their loved ones.
A couple of months before he died in 1992 I asked him to tell me some of his wartime stories which I recorded. Some of his recollections were tragic, some heroic and some even humourous.
One such story dealt with the D-Day landings in 1944. Months before the D-Day landings thousands of allied troops had been gathering in the fields of southern England to the point that soldiers use to say “It's a wonder that the island hasn't tipped leaving Scotland high and dry”.
Remembrance Day is a day that does not glorify war. It is a day that reminds us that there were many Canadians who believed in a better future. They were prepared to fight and even die in order that generations to come would have a better future.
Now it is up to us to continue the work for a better tomorrow. If we do, we will have remembered.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the member for Oxford falsely accused one of my colleagues of misusing franking privileges.
Perhaps the member for Oxford should chat with his caucus colleagues before he feels the need to lecture the official opposition.
I have obtained copies of letters which apparently came from the office of the member for Mississauga Centre.
These letters solicited support for an Ontario provincial Liberal candidate named George Winter.
The member for Mississauga Centre even went so far as to include provincial Liberal membership booklets in the mail-out.
Both letters were written on House of Commons letterhead and used franking privileges.
We are all aware that members cannot use House resources for their own campaigns. Therefore, is it appropriate for members to use House resources for provincial campaigns? I would think not. The Liberals have got it wrong again.
Mr. Speaker, today I would like to congratulate La Soupière, a community service program in Anjou, at the heart of my riding of Anjou—Rivière-des-Prairies, for its 15 years of service.
Weekly, for the past 15 years, the volunteers at La Soupière have been providing a nutritious meal to the isolated and disadvantaged residents of Anjou. In 1997-98, 40 volunteers served close to 3,400 meals. This represents 2,300 volunteer hours. Imagine how many meals and volunteer hours that adds up to over its 15 years.
I would also like to draw attention to the excellent co-operation between La Soupière, the city of Anjou, local merchants, Moisson Montréal, the various funding bodies, and the local community organizations.
Bravo to all those responsible for this wonderful effort. It helps those of us who are elected to office keep in mind that, above and beyond economic growth and competition, we must be sure that the resulting wealth is better shared.
Mr. Speaker, Hurricane Mitch has hit Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Guatemala, countries that were already struggling for some degree of economic prosperity. While the death toll is still being added up, thought must be given to the danger of epidemic and to preparations for putting the country back on its feet.
Jean-Paul Péloquin, a priest from Laval who has been working in the capital of Honduras for the past 31 years, wrote to his relatives that “the entire country, every square inch of it, has been at least 70% destroyed”. Yesterday, the governments of Quebec and Canada announced plans to provide emergency humanitarian aid to the countries hit by this disaster.
The people of Quebec are very familiar with the value of human solidarity, having reaped its benefits after the Saguenay flooding and the ice storm. I am therefore encouraging them to support the victim assistance programs of such organizations as the Red Cross, CUSO, Development and Peace, Oxfam Quebec and the Endeavours of Cardinal Léger.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to raise awareness of an issue important to the people of Saint John, New Brunswick and to Canadians all across this country.
The issue revolves around section 17 of the Corrections and Conditional Release Act.
This past summer Willis Walter Wright, a man who was sentenced to two life terms in prison, was released on an ETA, an escorted temporary absence.
This move was of great concern to Violet Cooke and her family. Willis Wright was convicted of murdering Violet Cooke's sister Janice and a friend after Janice asked him for a divorce.
On Monday, November 9 this convicted murderer will be granted a second ETA. This is the second in a matter of five months and it comes after he has served only seven and a half years of his sentence.
After question period I intend to present the solicitor general with a petition of over 10,000 names opposed to the ETA program.
Janice Cooke was the mother of two and now her family once again is living in fear because of the ETA program.
Mr. Speaker, Quebeckers are facing a bleak reality. The separatist government clearly indicated that a vote for the PQ is a vote for another referendum.
This was also confirmed by the Bloc Quebecois leader at the beginning of the election campaign. However, Quebeckers can change this reality on November 30. They can vote for real change, for a stronger Quebec, a Quebec that knows where it is headed, a Quebec that wants to be part of Canada.
On November 30, Quebeckers can change this reality by voting for the Liberal Party, by voting for economic growth, for a better quality of life and for the assurance that there will not be another referendum on Quebec's separation.
Mr. Speaker, on Remembrance Day we think of our veterans from past wars. That is important. But how many Canadians remember our men and women who are currently serving and thank them for their courage and service?
Here today we have five soldiers who served in the former Yugoslavia. All were injured in separate actions.
How many of us are even aware that Tom Martineau was shot by a sniper while serving in Bosnia, that Matt Stopford was a platoon commander during the 1993 battle of Medak pocket, a four-day firefight in which Canadians held off a Croatian attack, that Sargeant Tom Hoppy has earned the honour of being the most decorated Canadian soldier since the Korean War, that Reservist Peter Vallee saw frontline action on three tours of duty for his country in the former Yugoslavia, or that Reservist Jordie Yeo was badly wounded in an ambush while his unit defended Srebrenica?
Canadians should know those things and this government should make sure they do. Sitting today in the opposition gallery we have these soldiers. They and their comrades deserve our thanks and our respect.
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, on November 30, Quebeckers will be asked to form a broad coalition and vote against holding a future referendum in Quebec.
The Liberal Party is their insurance policy against yet another referendum on Quebec's separation from the rest of Canada.
The Liberals' priority is clear: to harness everyone's energy to create jobs and invest in such critical areas as health, education and regional development.
On November 30, Quebeckers will have a golden opportunity to say no to Quebec's separation from the rest of Canada. They will finally have an opportunity to say yes to economic growth and to the implementation of projects designed to improve their quality of life.
Mr. Speaker, farmers and their families are in crisis. Why? For many reasons beyond their control. The Liberal government chopped the Crow transportation benefit while European and American governments backed their farmers by retaining and increasing agricultural supports.
American farmers receive $2.68 per bushel in wheat support, more than it sells for right now. European farmers receive $5.58 per bushel. Canadian farmers receive less than 40 cents per bushel.
Input costs have increased. Fertilizer costs are up 57%. Farm chemicals are up 63%. Pork prices have dropped 60% over the last five months alone. Net farm income has dropped 80% over the last two years.
Today the ministers of agriculture are meeting to discuss this crisis.
When the east coast fishery collapsed, emergency aid was provided. When the ice storm happened, emergency aid was provided. When the Manitoba flood occurred, emergency aid was provided.
Farming is in crisis. Now is the time to provide our farm families with emergency aid.
Mr. Speaker, inspired by a poll of the sexual habits of sovereignists and federalists, I offer the following fable entitled “The Fable of the Voyeur and the Envied”:
All summer long the federalists Kept up their endless drivel, But now that an election looms, We're seeing quite a swivel. They hang their heads in sad regret, Their ship begins to sink, Of arguments they have not one To change the way we think. What shall we do, they moan and groan, Please tell us how to play. But do not use a bat, good sirs For that is not our way, We must know how you get your kicks, What do you do for fun? A poll will have the answer, right? We'll find out in the Sun . The sovereignists want out, it's clear Their secrets we must know. What turns their cranks, what makes their day What keeps them grinning so? The answer is that virtue pays And thirty years of work Should have some pay-off after all So take a hike, you jerk.
Mr. Speaker, in order to commemorate the 80th anniversary of the end of World War I, the Canadian War Museum, in co-operation with the Senate and the House of Commons, is presenting an exhibition of Canadian military art in the Hall of Honour in the Centre Block.
The 19 works by Canadian and foreign artists feature various themes from the two world wars, and depict such things as the actual fighting or the war effort in Canada.
It is entirely appropriate that these treasures from the Canadian War Museum grace the walls in the Hall of Honour, which is itself a tribute to the courageous men and women who gave their lives for peace and freedom.
The Minister of Canadian Heritage invites all members to visit the exhibit, which was officially opened today in the Hall of Honour.
Mr. Speaker,
It looked extremely rocky for the Liberals that day Their game plan had been tossed out in a prime ministerial way Though once they had been way ahead, their spirits now seemed flat Perhaps it would be turned around, with JC at the bat
The crowd was getting restless, discontent was in the air There hadn't been a bunt, or hit or action anywhere So on that stricken multitude a death-like silence sat For JC mighty JC was advancing to the bat
Canadians were shivering as he taxed away their shirts And crouched dumbfounded as he rubbed their noses in the dirt Then when a poor Canadian lobbed one from the hip Defiance glanced in JC's eye, a sneer on JC's lip
“Resign, please resign”, we heard someone from the back And JC would have throttled him, but the Whip stopped the attack He couldn't really care less where Canadians were at Though all the things that worried them were there for JC's bat
Oh somewhere in this favoured world the sun is shining bright The band is playing somewhere, and somewhere hearts are light And somewhere men are laughing, and somewhere children shout But there is no joy in Canada, mighty JC has struck out.
I hope that Jean Charest is listening.
Mr. Speaker, CTV is reporting an allegation made by a former Canadian now living in Israel. Leslie Lewis claims he was approached last year to give his Canadian passport to an Israeli agent. Lewis also claims his daughter was approached for the same reason.
The Israeli government has denied the allegation and says it no longer uses Canadian passports in its fight against terrorism. Would the foreign affairs minister tell us what he knows about this allegation?
Mr. Speaker, I make the point that we consider the integrity of the Canadian passport to be a primary responsibility, and we have taken a number of efforts to ensure that.
On the particular incident, the matter was reported to our embassy. It was thoroughly investigated by passport people, consular people, CSIS people. They could find no corroboration for the allegations that were made.
The fact is that we continue to monitor the situation, but there is no evidence that would require us or give us the basis for raising the matter with Israelis at this point.
If there is new evidence that can be produced, we would be very happy to receive it and to further investigate it.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians have strong feelings on this issue. On the one hand, we believe in the security of the state of Israel and its fight against terrorism. On the other hand, as the minister said, we are concerned about allegations that our passports are being used illegally. Our passports are well respected around the world.
It is being reported that the minister was informed of this allegation some time ago. When did he first learn about this allegation and what did he do about it at the time?
Mr. Speaker, I just explained that when the first representation was made the matter was investigated. Last February, March and April it was investigated by several agencies. Certain parts of the gentleman's story did not corroborate in any way, shape or form. They could not provide any supporting evidence.
At that point in time we continued to monitor the situation, but it did not warrant any direct representation to the Israeli government without the kind of basic support and evidence that would be required to support the kind of charges he made.
Mr. Speaker, in September 1997 Canadian passports were illegally used by Israeli agents in an anti-terrorist operation. At that time the minister gave the House solemn assurances that this would never happen again.
Now we have allegations that it did happen again, allegations that the minister apparently knew about but kept to himself. Are there any other allegations of this nature which the minister is aware of and yet has not disclosed to the House?
Mr. Speaker, the operative word is allegations. Allegations are things we check out. That is exactly what we did. We checked them out. There were no grounds to them.
Therefore we have continued to monitor them. The only other allegation that was made was by Mr. Lewis about another individual who had been approached, and he totally denied it.
Mr. Speaker, simply following up on those allegations, I checked that out today. Basically the foreign affairs people, your own people, are saying exactly what you say, that they have looked at this—
I would ask the hon. member to address the Chair.
Mr. Speaker, CTV also stands behind its story. What Canadians want to know is whom should they believe. Should they believe—
The hon. Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Mr. Speaker, let me first clarify that I sent officials over to the hon. member to brief him. He did not check it out. We made sure that he was fully informed of what went on. That is exactly how we deal with it because we want to make sure people have full available information.
The point of the matter is CTV said allegations were made. Yes, they were. We checked out those allegations to the best information we could ascertain. By the way, one of the handicaps of ascertaining it is that the individual in question would not allow us to use his name when we went around to check out the sources and the basis for that. He is now clearly going public.
The fact of the matter is that if there is any new evidence, if there is any new—
The hon. member for Red Deer.
Mr. Speaker, I asked for a briefing at 6 o'clock last night and again at 10 o'clock. A briefing was set up at 9 o'clock this morning which was cancelled. Finally I got a briefing at 1.15 this afternoon.
Canadians need to feel confident in their passports. We also are against terrorism but not with the Canadian passport. Let us get it straight. The minister is saying that the allegations made by W5 last night are untrue. Yes or no.
Mr. Speaker, what I have said four times in a row is that the allegations were made. We checked them out to the best of our ability. There were a variety of agencies talking to a number of other agencies involved in the business. We could not find any corroborating evidence to support the allegations that were made.
In fact as much as we could ascertain was that the event he was talking about happened last fall before the assurances were given. That is as much as we have been able to know.
If the hon. member has more information we will look into it, but I want to make the point that we have in place a system where every five years we review the passport system. We are presently bringing in a new system. I believe it is the most secure passport in the world.
Mr. Speaker, the government has long been looking for a way to raid the employment insurance fund surplus, which it believes it has now found. The solution is all very simple: do away with the separate employment insurance fund and bury it in the government's general accounts. Out of sight, out of mind.
With this sort of sleight of hand, how can the Prime Minister look the unemployed in the eye, when he has both hands in their pockets digging out the employment insurance surplus?
Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member were to look at the facts, he would see that, in 1986, employment insurance was included in the consolidated fund of the government of the day. This is not new, this is how it has always been done.
Sometimes accounting revealed that the employment insurance fund was in a deficit position, and the government absorbed the deficit. Now, because the economy is in better shape, accounting procedures reveal a surplus because there is less unemployment. The figures are as they have been for the past 12 years in the government's consolidated fund, as required by the auditor general—
I am sorry to interrupt the Right Hon. Prime Minister. The leader of the Bloc Quebecois.
Mr. Speaker, any surplus is due to the fact that only 42% of those who pay premiums are eligible for benefits when they are unemployed. That is the reality.
This is why the Prime Minister is at a crossroads. Either he returns the employment insurance to workers, the unemployed and businesses or he tries to hide the reality to avoid the risk of illegality or immorality. What will he do?
Mr. Speaker, our friend from the Bloc Quebecois wants to continue befuddling everyone and causing Canadians anxiety over the employment insurance system.
Seventy-eight per cent of Canadian workers who lose their job or who leave it for a valid reason are covered by the employment insurance system. That is the reality, and not what the Bloc is peddling on the other side in order to cause Canadians concern.
Mr. Speaker, at the risk of offending our friend across the way, the figure appears on page 47 of his report. If he checked the reports, he would find the same figure.
The government would rather use the EI surplus from employer and employee overcontributions to reduce income taxes for everybody.
Does the Prime Minister not realize that this choice does not make sense when he as Prime Minister could benefit from a tax reduction at the expense of the unemployed even though he pays no EI premiums?
Mr. Speaker, I am subject to the same payroll deductions as the leader of the Bloc Quebecois. I think that I pay EI premiums just as he does. I think that all members—
Oh, oh.
At any rate, if we are not contributing, if I am not covered, it does not bother me personally. Still, I am not treated any differently from the leader of the Bloc Quebecois.
Why is the hon. member engaging in demagoguery when he is in the same boat? He is trying to blame the Prime Minister for a situation that also applies to himself and to all members of this House.
Let us be clear, Mr. Speaker. I do not begrudge the Prime Minister his salary, far from it. I am simply saying that, in our society, there are many people who, like us parliamentarians, do not pay EI premiums.
Why should he or I benefit from a tax reduction at the expense of the less fortunate? That is unacceptable.
Mr. Speaker, I welcome the great opportunity the hon. member is giving me.
Over the past five years, we in this House have steadily reduced contributions to the unemployment insurance fund, which is now known as the employment insurance fund. Instead of rising to $3.30 on January 1, 1994, as planned, the contribution rate dropped to $2.70 last year. There have been four consecutive reductions in employee premiums.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister.
The best way to protect Canada is to reinvest now in the health sector. Canadians across the country are saying it. All the premiers are saying it. But the federal government does not listen.
If the Prime Minister cares about the health of Canadians, if he cares about Canada, what is he waiting for to reinvest $2.5 billion in health?
Mr. Speaker, this is precisely why, in the last budget, we raised the level of cash contributions to provincial governments from $11 billion to $12.5 billion.
We also said that we intend to invest in health in the next budget, in February.
We do care about Canadians' health, but we are not like the leader of the New Democratic Party who cares about Lucien Bouchard's health.
Oh, oh.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians are starving for cash contributions from the government and as a result our health care system is in a deep crisis.
The single most important thing that the government could do for the health of Canadians and for the health of the federation is to reinvest $2.5 billion now in our health care system. What is the government waiting for?
Mr. Speaker, we said that last year the budget was an investment in education and training for the young people of Canada and innovation, and we said the next investment the government will make will be in health care. I said that long before the member got up. I said that in September in a speech in Saint John, New Brunswick. She is a bit late.
We made that commitment months ago and we will have a budget in February, as we have every year.
Mr. Speaker, a C.D. Howe Institute report states that high payroll taxes hurt Canadian workers and the economy. The report also suggests that the increase in CPP premiums should be offset with an EI premium cut.
The finance minister once told Canadians “payroll taxes are a barrier to jobs”.
Will the finance minister tell us why he now insists on killing jobs by keeping EI premiums high, much higher than they need to be?
Mr. Speaker, when we looked at this issue together with the provinces we did not agree with the short term impacts cited by the hon. member.
One thing we did agree with in terms of the report was that had we not taken steps together with the provinces we would not have been able to secure the Canada pension plan for our retirees today and for future generations of Canadians. We acted and we are very proud we did.
Mr. Speaker, the effect of the CPP premium hike will be to take away a week's wages from a person earning less than $35,000 a year.
The finance minister could lower the tax burden on these Canadians by offsetting the CPP hikes with a more substantial EI premium cut than he has been willing to make to date.
Even the government's watchdog states EI premiums should be much lower than they are.
Why does the finance minister insist on taxing Canadians who can least afford it?
Mr. Speaker, I find it passing strange coming from the Tory party a call for EI cuts which under its regime went from $1.95 up to $3.30. I find it passing strange it is criticizing us for having acted to secure the Canada pension plan for all Canadians when it ignored it totally for nine years and stuck its head in the sand.
Mr. Speaker, enough rhetoric from the minister. The C.D. Howe Institute is saying that the government's CPP tax hike will cost 200,000 jobs. He can offset the impact of those hikes by cutting EI premiums by the $7 billion recommended by the actuary.
Will the minister obey the law, cut the EI tax hike by $7 billion and preserve 200,000 jobs?
Mr. Speaker, for the last four years the sole obsession of the Reform Party has been to get us out of deficit. Now that we are out of it, it wants to put us back into deficit by irresponsible tax reductions.
We refuse to follow these irresponsible policies. We will act in a balanced and sane way for the benefit of all Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, the government is already $4 billion over budget this year. That is where it can find some savings.
The government will do anything to stay in power. We have the finance minister who is saying payroll taxes are a cancer on job creation. Yet the government raises payroll taxes. He said this spring that the EI fund belongs to workers and employers. Now he is setting out to raid it.
When will the minister quit this cynical, political manipulation of the government's finances and put jobs ahead of his own political ambitions?
Mr. Speaker, in terms of EI cuts, let us be very clear about what Reform is advocating.
In its fresh start document, its election platform, it said cut the premiums 28% but for employers only. Last January it told us we could use the surplus in the EI to help pay down the deficit and the debt.
We intend to act responsibly and take a balanced approach. We will continue our program of cutting EI taxes. We will continue our program of reducing personal income taxes. We will pay down the debt and we will invest in health care.
Mr. Speaker, with all the cuts his government has made to employment insurance, the Prime Minister knows full well that the gap between the premiums and the benefits is such that the fund will never again show a deficit.
Will the Prime Minister acknowledge that the employment insurance plan has become a real cash cow for his government and that he is trying desperately to get his hands on it?
Mr. Speaker, I note that the Bloc Quebecois members are having a hard time living with a surplus. They are much happier when there are deficits, and the fund is in difficulty.
Our government takes a balanced approach, because we are careful and realistic managers and had the courage to reform employment insurance, something that has been helpful to many workers. The Bloc Quebecois claims to be defending the unemployed, because they like it when they are suffering and are unemployed for a long time, whereas our government aims at returning them to the labour market. That is what we want.
Mr. Speaker, the minister would like to have us think that he is putting thought into what he wants to do with the employment insurance surplus, which is not his.
Why will the Prime Minister not admit that the decisions have already been made and that his thoughts at the moment are about ways to get hold of the fund surplus at as low a political cost as possible?
Mr. Speaker, I can assure the House that this government will continue to work for the workers in this country and to invest in helping them return to the labour market, including in the regions where unemployment is too high.
We will continue to help the young gain work experience in business, which will enable them to integrate into the labour market, because this is what they lack. Our government will continue to do its job to help young people remain longer in school by investing in the education strategy. That is what we want to do.
Mr. Speaker, the social insurance number system is, according to Canada's auditor general, rife with errors, fraud and abuse.
I ask the minister responsible for cleaning up this mess to stand up and tell us when he intends to get this system overhauled.
Mr. Speaker, my department has the responsibility for the SIN cards with some of the departments, but we are the lead department on it.
From what I understand, my official's comments in the article reported this morning were taken out of context completely.
We agree that there are important administrative improvements to be made and we have begun to take action. Today we have a meeting in Montreal held by a number of officials precisely looking into this file. We need to clean up the register. We will do it in collaboration with the provinces.
I have asked our standing committee of the House to look into it. I hope it will find the time to do what the auditor general asked it to.
Mr. Speaker, the Liberals have been asleep at the switch on this for over five years.
About one million deceased Canadians still have active social insurance numbers. When can living Canadians expect this do nothing government to restore integrity to the SIN system?
Mr. Speaker, they must have been sleeping at the switch too because they never asked any questions on this subject.
My department has set up five working groups to fix the problem. We want to clean up the register and that will require working with the provinces because they are responsible for part of it. We want to improve the security features of the cards.
We have another working group on increasing our investigations, on examining penalties for fraud and on improving proof of identity. These are things already underway.
Mr. Speaker, we have learned that the federal government is toying with the idea of making any of its future investments in health contingent on its public servants' approval of any projects the provinces might wish to carry out.
When the government tells us that health is one of its priorities, are we to understand that what it is primarily interested in is maximum control and maximum visibility, with a minimum outlay of funds?
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health have had occasion to state a number of times that we will be working with the provinces in the health field.
However, if the Bloc Quebecois really wants some examples of interference and centralization, here is a quotation from Michel Boucher, professor of economics at the École nationale d'administration publique:
Rather than following the North American trend, which is strongly pro-decentralization, the Parti Quebecois government is ignoring the municipalities' pressures for greater independence and continues to meddle in their operations.
Now that is centralization.
Mr. Speaker, that has nothing to do with this.
On what moral principle are these people in federal government, who have never looked after a single patient, now setting themselves up as judges and telling the provinces what to do and how to do it with the health funding to which they are entitled?
Mr. Speaker, on what moral principle did the PQ government cut funding to health, post-secondary education and social assistance between 1994 and 1998, to the tune of 3.2%, when the other provinces in the country were adding 3%?
Mr. Speaker, when warrant officer Matt Stopford joined the Canadian forces he made a deal. He promised to put his life on the line to protect his country. In return he expected his country, if he was hurt, to look after him and his family.
Now Matt Stopford is seriously ill as a result of radiation exposure on his last tour to Yugoslavia. This government broke the deal and is not looking after him.
My question is to the defence minister. When will he provide treatment and compensation to Matt Stopford as he promised?
Mr. Speaker, the problem of that individual was brought to our attention. It is being thoroughly investigated. The matter will be dealt with accordingly.
Mr. Speaker, a deal is a deal. Matt Stopford is sitting in the House right now. He is listening to and watching this defence minister. He represents over 1,000 soldiers who have been injured by the same radiation exposure.
I urge the defence minister to be cautious in his reply. When will he uphold his part of the deal, provide compensation and treatment to this soldier and to all the others who were injured?
Mr. Speaker, this government cares very much about the men and women who serve in the Canadian forces.
We recently commissioned a report that deals with the injured in our services. We provided that to the Standing Committee on National Defence. It has formed part of the many recommendations the committee has made on how we can improve the quality of life for our service people past and present.
They should be ashamed of themselves for trying to exploit this difficulty that many people find themselves in. We are trying to deal with the matter properly.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Human Resources Development.
We know how big the EI surplus is because there are two separate accounts.
Are we to understand that the government—and I want a clear answer—is considering changes and that this will no longer be the case?
Mr. Speaker, our government has a very clear answer. No decision has been taken. That strikes me as a perfectly and absolutely clear answer.
The Prime Minister explained that, in 1986, the auditor general asked the government to combine the two accounts and simply include an accounting line to explain the situation. However, it was the auditor general who asked, in 1986, that the two accounts be combined.
Mr. Speaker, during last January's ice storm, 30,000 woodlot owners in Quebec sustained heavy losses.
Yesterday, the president of the Fédération des producteurs de bois du Québec, Jean-Claude Nadeau, asked the governments of Canada and Quebec to come to an agreement as soon as possible on a joint program to help these people, with each level of government providing 50% of the funding.
Is the government prepared to provide adequate assistance to affected producers, as it managed to do for small businesses and farm producers in Quebec?
Mr. Speaker, we welcome the woodlot owners' request.
We agree that the best way to deal with this situation is for both levels of government to sit down together as soon as possible and work out a plan, with costs being shared 50:50, to solve the problems experienced by woodlot owners and compensate them.
Now, this means that the provincial government has to agree to sit down with all interested parties in the next few weeks and to ensure that the program will be funded according to a 50:50 formula.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the minister of agriculture suggested that farmers should get another job off the farm in order to survive. Is this the answer to the farm income crisis? A survey in my constituency showed that up to 76% of the farmers were working off the farm in order to survive.
My question is for the Prime Minister. Do you agree with the minister of agriculture that farmers should have—
The hon. member should address his questions through the Speaker.
Mr. Speaker, does the right hon. Prime Minister agree with the minister of agriculture that farmers should have to work off the farm in order to survive?
Mr. Speaker, the minister of agriculture said no such thing yesterday. He said that this government is putting in $1 billion a year along with the provincial counterparts to help out the farming industry in Canada. This is year after year after year. That is in addition to crop insurance and Farm Credit Corporation policies. The questioner is way out of line with his question.
Mr. Speaker, the justice department has a double standard when it comes to punishing farmers for selling their wheat outside the Canadian Wheat Board. Dozens of poor farmers who cannot afford high priced lawyers have been prosecuted relentlessly by this Liberal government, but one wealthy farmer who disputed a huge fine has been left alone completely for three years. Is this the justice minister's policy, to only prosecute poor farmers who cannot hire top notch lawyers?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member's question is disgraceful.
Oh, oh.
The hon. Minister of Justice.
Mr. Speaker, I apologize for that description of the hon. member's question. The prosecutions that are taking place are taking place on the basis of due process of law. They are taking place and moving forward as any other prosecution would. At this point because there are prosecutions before the court, I have no intention of commenting on any particular case.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State for International Financial Institutions.
The Canadian Imperial bank of Commerce is now selling postage stamps through 23 automatic teller machines in southern Ontario. If this becomes a common practice for the banks throughout all of Canada, some 1,700 small retailers that rely on stamps will find their businesses at risk.
Can the minister explain to the House why the government allowed the banks to get into this business when it is clearly not in the charter?
Mr. Speaker, this issue came to my attention two days ago. I have asked our officials to look into it. I will be pleased to report back to the House as soon as I have an answer.
Mr. Speaker, I have with me a copy of the Bank Act. I can assure the minister there is nothing here that allows them to sell postage stamps. The post office is now collaborating with the banks to allow the banks to do this. It is 75 cents a pop. There is a service charge.
Will the minister stand in the House today and make a commitment that he will not allow the banks in Canada to get into yet another market, namely selling postage stamps through their ATMs, in other words becoming a vending machine for this product and God knows what other products in the future?
Mr. Speaker, concerning the question of the Bank Act, the legalities are not quite as clear cut as the member might let on. There is a question of whether it is the sale of goods or of services. Having said that, we have asked our officials to look into it. I will be very pleased to hear from the House and Senate committees looking into this to see what their suggestions are as to any potential expansion of the powers of banks. I look forward to the members' suggestions.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister.
In light of what is going on in Malaysia, the members of the foreign affairs committee asked that Canada's participation in the APEC summit be discussed.
However, since the Prime Minister has made his decision and is about to leave with his entourage to travel to Malaysia, can he tell us what message he will deliver to his Malaysian counterpart regarding human rights and more specifically the fate of Anwar Ibrahim, who is imprisoned in Malaysia?
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his question.
This issue was raised before in the House by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance, who have both protested, on behalf of the government, against the treatment reserved to the former Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister. I also made similar remarks here in the House.
I can assure the hon. member that I will raise this issue when I am in Kuala Lumpur, next week.
Mr. Speaker, this is the first step in the right direction. The government must now take the second step.
The Minister of Finance, as the Prime Minister pointed out, personally phoned Mr. Ibrahim's wife to assure her of his support.
If the Prime Minister of Malaysia refuses to improve the human rights situation in his country, if he refuses to free Mr. Ibrahim, what will be Canada's official position and will the Prime Minister—
The question as worded is hypothetical. I would ask the hon. member to quickly rephrase it.
Mr. Speaker, I do hope that Mr. Ibrahim's liberation will not be hypothetical.
If Mr. Ibrahim is not freed, can the Prime Minister tell us what Canada's official position will be, and whether he is prepared to cut short his participation in the summit, so as to send a clear message on human rights in that country?
Mr. Speaker, a trial is currently going on in Malaysia and, as a rule, foreign governments do not get involved in a country's internal procedures.
However, we clearly indicated to the Malaysian government that we find totally unacceptable what was done to the former Minister of Finance of that country.
I intend to raise the issue. I have had contacts with the other governments that will be present in Kuala Lumpur, and I am convinced that several of my counterparts also intend to make representations to the Prime Minister of Malaysia when we are in Kuala Lumpur, in a week from now.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
In November Canada will be attending an APEC meeting in Malaysia. What is our government doing to support the participation of citizens and NGOs in the Asia Pacific people's assembly during the APEC meeting?
Mr. Speaker, the government will give $50,000 to the people who will participate in the people's summit that will be held in Kuala Lumpur. We did it last year in Canada. We invested even more money to have the parallel summit held in Vancouver and we are helping the one that will be held in Kuala Lumpur next week.
Mr. Speaker, Louise Richard served in the military in the gulf war. She and many others in our military have suffered permanently from gulf war syndrome. This government discharged those people and refused to give compensation.
I would like to ask the minister what loving, caring excuse does he have today as to why these people have been shafted by this military and have not been looked after?
Mr. Speaker, all of these cases have been examined very thoroughly. We have provided medical services to look at all these individual cases and to deal with them fairly. We will continue to do that.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday afternoon the Minister of Public Works and Government Services told this House that the $235 appraisal fee imposed on anyone securing a loan with the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation was an average cost, so to speak, and that, if CMHC were to appraise every property individually, the cost would be much higher.
Since an appraisal is done on only one out of every twenty properties in Quebec, where is the truth in the minister's remarks: each appraisal costs $4,700 on average or the CMHC is filling its pockets at the expense of borrowers?
Mr. Speaker, I would like to make the hon. member understand that, first of all, with this new appraisal and qualification system, every buyer gets an immediate response. So, our priority is to serve the buyer so that he can have a secured loan to buy a property.
Second, we are not the lenders and we make sure that, when financial institutions grant a loan for an appraised property, and building projects in general, there is premium to pay, a rather small one, in my view. And with modern technology—
I am sorry to interrupt the minister. The hon. member for Halifax West has the floor.
Mr. Speaker, our troops face wretched decaying conditions.
Will the minister respond quickly to improve pay and living conditions for Canada's military and, as a partial means to find funds, provide Canadians with a complete listing of all big ticket, high tech military equipment currently mothballed in warehouses across this country?
Mr. Speaker, we want to respond just as quickly as possible to the report of the Standing Committee on National Defence and Veterans Affairs on quality of life issues.
A high priority for this government is to make sure that the men and women in uniform are properly looked after. We are going through an analysis of the 89 recommendations of that report just as quickly as we can, costing of the various recommendations and as soon as possible we will bring our report forward.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans.
Nova Scotia and Bay of Fundy lobster conservation measures are not being applied evenly across the board. If the minister wants these new regulations to work, then adjacent lobster fishing areas must have the same conservation measures. For instance, lobsters that are illegal to catch in district 33 are legal to catch in adjoining district 34. How is the minister going to prevent smuggling and illegal sales between these two adjacent districts?
Mr. Speaker, uniformity of measurement for legal lobsters is an important objective. We have put in place a number of measures in many different lobster harvesting areas of maritime Canada to achieve that. Nevertheless for historic reasons and sometimes because of the requests of the fishermen themselves, it has not been possible to reach a single uniform size across the entire board.
I certainly appreciate the hon. member's interest in making sure we arrive at that situation just as soon as we can.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister for International Co-operation.
Officials in Central America have estimated that more than 12,000 people have died in floods and mudslides triggered by hurricane Mitch. Tens of thousands are injured and tens of thousands more have been left homeless.
What efforts has the Canadian government made to provide relief to the victims of this natural disaster?
Mr. Speaker, I believe that all Canadians share the hon. member's concern.
Yesterday CIDA made an initial contribution of $1 million in emergency assistance through the Red Cross, the Pan American Health Organization and our embassy. A strategic reconnaissance team, including members of the Canadian forces disaster assistance response team, will be deployed today to Central America to determine what further assistance is needed.
I can assure all Canadians that the minister is monitoring the situation very closely.
I draw the attention of hon. members to the presence in the public gallery of a group of teachers who come from all over Canada.
These teachers are the participants of the third annual Teachers' Institute on Canadian Parliamentary Democracy. The objective of this forum is to recognize teaching excellence and foster a greater understanding of parliament.
Please welcome these teachers who are preparing