As is our practice on Wednesdays, we will now sing O Canada, and we will be led by the hon. member for Sackville—Eastern Shore.
Mr. Speaker, I call on all members of the House to join me in congratulating all parliamentarians of the Republic of Croatia for unanimously ratifying the Canadian led treaty to ban anti-personnel land mines.
One of the first countries to support and join the Ottawa process, Croatia became the 12th country to ratify this convention.
A foremost victim of land mines, up to three million mines were laid in areas of the country, blocking the safe return of refugees and displaced persons and further hampering attempts at development and reconstruction.
Through partnerships with other states, Canadian de-mining technology and expertise can help to eliminate the dangers of existing land mines in this region.
Mr. Speaker, there has been a lot of talk lately about the declining role of parliamentarians at the hands of judicial activism.
In the case of Rosenberg v Canada, a lesbian challenged the constitutionality of the Income Tax Act, since it forced Revenue Canada to refuse to register her employer's private pension plan if it extended death benefits to same sex partners. In a unanimous decision on April 23, the Ontario Court of Appeal decided to read a same sex definition of the term spouse into the act.
I feel that the government has an obligation to defend its stated position on the definition of spouse and if an appeal fails then this issue should be put before parliament.
As the former justice minister himself said while defending the need for Bill C-33, “we shouldn't rely upon the courts to make public policy in matters of this kind. That's up to legislators, and we should have the courage to do it”.
This issue comes down to one question: Is the current justice minister going to let the courts decide on the redefinition of the term spouse or is parliament?
Mr. Speaker, I rise in the House today to commemorate the 80th anniversary of Armenian independence.
On May 28, 1918 the Armenian nation threw off the shackles of oppression of the Ottoman Empire and re-established itself as an independent nation on the world stage.
Today Armenians throughout the world join together to celebrate the birth of the modern Armenian state. As we gather to celebrate this important milestone we will pray that the growth of democracy and the rule of law will continue to flourish in today's Armenia.
Armenians have fought countless battles and endured immeasurable hardships to sustain our language and culture and, in fact, our very existence as a nation.
Happy Anniversary, Armenia.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to call on members of the House to join me in welcoming Monsignor Franjo Komarica, Bishop of Banja Luka, Bosnia-Hercegovina.
During the war which engulfed Bosnia-Hercegovina, most of those in Bishop Komarica's diocese were subjected to ethnic cleansing and their homes open to systematic destruction.
Monsignor Komarica has long been an outspoken advocate of a just and peaceful solution to the conflict in Bosnia and a harmonious co-existence between all of its peoples.
Despite the threat to his personal safety, the bishop worked courageously to intervene and prevent the outbreak and escalation of large scale conflicts and oversaw the distribution of desperately needed humanitarian aid to all citizens in need.
I applaud Bishop Komarica for his defence and assistance of all victims of war in Bosnia-Hercegovina and I welcome him to Canada.
Mr. Speaker, May 28 is a significant date for the Armenian community in Canada.
On that date, in 1918, the Republic of Armenia was created following the tragic events in which more than one million of their fellow citizens were killed.
Although the new republic was annexed by the Soviet Union soon after, May 28, 1918 remains an important date for all Armenians.
Today the Republic of Armenia is once again an independent country, having declared its independence on September 23, 1991 from the former Soviet Union. Even though the Armenian economy has been strained by recent changes and is currently undergoing a difficult process of economic restructuring, the future now looks brighter for the new republic.
On this day I wish to pay a special tribute to my constituents of Armenian origin who are model Canadians and proud of their rich culture and linguistic Armenian heritage.
I invite all my colleagues to celebrate this anniversary together with all Canadians of Armenian origin.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in the House today to pay tribute to the Canadian Special Olympics Organization.
These very dedicated people provide programs of tremendous benefit to individuals with mental challenges.
The special olympics is one of the most respected charity help groups in all of Canada and this is due to the thousands of dedicated volunteers who donate so much of their time to this very worthy cause.
I am proud to host in my riding every year the Prince George special olympics charity golf classic which has raised more than $100,000 for our special olympics organization over the last five years.
I salute the many special olympics volunteers and especially the special olympics athletes who, with grit and determination, say “Let me win. But if I cannot win, let me be brave in my attempt”.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, Ontario became the eighth Canadian province to send a clear message in favour of national unity by supporting the Calgary declaration.
“We recognize Quebec's unique character”, said the Ontario legislature. The provinces are once again reiterating that Quebec belongs in the Canadian federation.
As for the Bouchard government, it has instituted a so-called non-partisan parliamentary commission on the Calgary declaration.
Why did nine of the thirty persons who were approached decline the sovereignists' invitation to take part in this bogus commission? This speaks volumes about the non-partisan nature of this commission, which Premier Bouchard would have us believe in.
Mr. Speaker, air pollution advisories are being issued more and more frequently across the country. Montreal has already had two smog alerts so far this year, which is somewhat unusual this early in the season.
Children and older people as well as those with respiratory and cardiac problems are the most vulnerable. Recent data show that up to 1,800 Ontario residents die every year from air pollution.
Immediate action is required to ensure that Canadians can breathe cleaner air. Air pollution is a source of concern for all Canadians and should be a priority for all governments.
Mr. Speaker, the results of a survey on grain marketing in Saskatchewan was recently made public. I thought members who helped ram Bill C-4 through the House would be interested in the results.
Sixty per cent of the respondents thought there should be dual marketing for wheat; that is, the Canadian Wheat Board should not be the only company the western farmers can sell their wheat and barley to.
Sixty-one per cent thought there should be a provision for producers to sell a portion of their production outside the Canadian Wheat Board.
Fifty-four per cent thought the wheat board would be effective in a dual market.
Fifty-three per cent felt they did not know enough about the changes to the wheat board passed in Bill C-4.
I think members on the government side will pay more attention to these survey results when they learn that the survey was conducted by the leader of the Liberal Party of Saskatchewan.
Mr. Speaker, since this is Senior Citizens Week in Quebec, I take this opportunity to salute all senior citizens in Laval and Quebec and to thank them for their contribution to our society's development.
Two years ago, the federal government announced a seniors benefit program that would provide minimum annual payments of $11,420 to a person living alone, and $18,440 for a couple, which is clearly below the poverty line.
With the support of Bloc Quebecois members, seniors groups have questioned the formula used to calculate these benefits. They have criticized the federal government for jeopardizing the financial independence of elderly women and penalizing seniors with other sources of income.
We want the Minister of Finance to follow up on these concerns. Seniors can be assured that we will be vigilant during the review of that program.
I wish you all a good week.
Mr. Speaker, last week, we learned that unemployment has gone up in Quebec. Instead of trying to find concrete solutions, the PQ government has decided to set up a parliamentary commission on the Calgary declaration, a document in which it does not even want to believe.
In this morning's edition of La Presse , an editorial writer says: “There is in fact a direct link between the two events. Politics is killing the economy in Quebec. We will not succeed in lowering the unemployment rate, in efficiently fighting poverty and in giving back to the state enough financial leeway as long as we continue to bleed ourselves dry over this political debate, which is getting us nowhere”.
I leave it up to Quebeckers to make up their own minds about the PQ decisions, which go squarely against their own interests and seem to be unanimously supported by Bloc Quebecois members.
Mr. Speaker, human rights and the family are the topic of the Canadian Council of Refugee's semi-annual conference. Participants from Canada and abroad will attend and celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Canadian government is concerned with trade and not human needs or problems. This government must advance policies that represent the values of Canadian citizens rather than reacting to the hysteria of right wing politicians and enforcing detentions and deportations.
A refugee claimant who has passed the medical and background checks should receive landed immigrant status at the most three years after filing a refugee claim. A large number of refugees are in limbo and waiting for basic human rights such as the pursuit of work, education or travel. We must not close our doors to those seeking refuge.
Mr. Speaker, it is with great pleasure that I rise today to congratulate the Minister of National Defence, the hon. member of parliament for York Centre. He was recognized last Thursday as the recipient of the American Public Works Association's Distinguished Service Award. The award recognizes members of government for their far-reaching positive impact on public works programs, services or policies through distinguished public service commitment.
He is the first Canadian to win the award in the 104 year history of the APWA. The minister certainly deserves it for the work he did as minister responsible for infrastructure when he launched the Canada infrastructure works program, a model program for intergovernmental co-operation. He spearheaded the effort to rebuild Canada's infrastructure and provided $2 billion in federal money. The program delivered the money where it was needed most, at the municipal level.
In his current portfolio the minister mobilized 15,000 Canadian forces to support public works officials during the ice storm of 1998.
Please join me in congratulating the Minister of National Defence.
Mr. Speaker, members of the political and economic community met this week to look at certain aspects of globalization in terms of economic imperatives at the world conference in Montreal.
The members of a popular lobby group, l'Opération Salami, vigorously expressed their resistance to globalization, which, according to them, is creating its share of injustice.
One phenomenon, two visions: a world where everything should be done to facilitate economic exchange, because it is the guarantee of prosperity, or a world where community well-being means protecting the social values that have come from democracy.
When groups demonstrate to such an extent to express their viewpoint, it is time for us, the politicians, to look at the phenomenon of globalization and especially at its impact on our social values.
This is tangible evidence that we parliamentarians should adopt the solution I recently proposed, which is to create a parliamentary committee to study the consequences of this new reality.
Mr. Speaker, in anticipation of tomorrow's supreme court ruling on a case involving Karlheinz Schreiber in the ill-conceived, politically motivated airbus investigation, many questions remain unanswered.
It is increasingly clear that Kimberly Prost, retired Staff Sergeant Fiegenwald, mysterious convict Mr. Palosi and the equally credible Stevie Cameron are not the main players in this entire debacle.
We know a former prime minister has been harassed and defamed by the current government's administration and, when challenged on the merits, this same government only offered a qualified apology, paid the bill and now presses on with renewed vigour like an addicted gambler doubling his bets in the hope of covering his debts.
The affront to public sensibility and personal vendetta continues. The questions remain. Why has this dragged on? When will the government show good faith and abandon this dead end trail, saving Canadians further tax dollars? In light of Air Canada's decision to purchase more airbuses, does the government fear for the future integrity of the current Prime Minister, given the Liberal history of involvement with the airbus which dates back to 1971?
Mr. Speaker, this week in London, Ontario, one of Canada's most important democratic activities is taking place. Canadians from every corner of the country and from every walk of life will be gathering to discuss the state of our country and to develop innovative policy at the 1998 assembly of the Reform Party.
Assembly 98 delegates will speak freely and candidly about the problems facing their country. Unlike the Liberals, Reformers do not need to be whipped into line and smile for the cameras. Reformers take pride in speaking their minds on any issue, including an open debate on all aspects of our own party.
Reformers believe in an efficient and accountable government, and accountability starts with the individual. I invite members opposite to tune in and watch the proceedings of Assembly 98. They will see accountability, autonomy and the ingenuity that will continue to shape Canada for generations to come.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the health minister said that albumin, used to treat burn victims imported from the U.S. Alpha Therapeutic Company, is safe and “at no time have American authorities prohibited the sale of the products of this company”.
In one hour I found two product withdrawals from this company in one year, and one of them was albumin. Has the government learned nothing from the tainted blood tragedy?
Mr. Speaker, the important point here is that the albumin being imported into Canada has been inspected by the American authorities and by the Canadian authorities and has been found to meet safety standards.
The member as a physician should know that albumin is an important product for the health of many Canadians. Because of the shortage of licensed suppliers and at the request of physicians, Health Canada through the special access program has permitted importation of this product from Alpha, which is an American company.
This product has been inspected by the American authorities, by the Canadian authorities and has been found to be safe.
Mr. Speaker, remember he said no withdrawals and there were withdrawals.
The same company has such a bad safety record in the U.S. that on voluntary standards which they would normally comply with the FDA had to go to court to force them and the parent company, Green Cross in Japan, to get down on their knees and apologize for the Japanese tainted blood scandal.
Why are we allowing outsiders to tell us that these blood products are safe?
Mr. Speaker, as usual the member is not listening. What he is doing through his fearmongering is upsetting people who rely on this product.
I have said to the House and I say again to the member, if it does any good, that because of the shortage of this supply from licensed suppliers doctors have asked Health Canada to permit the importation from Alpha.
The American authorities have examined the very product being imported. Canadian authorities have examined that product and have found it to be safe.
Let us not instil unnecessary fear on the part of innocent Canadians who rely on these products for their own health and safety.
Mr. Speaker, Canada is not testing this blood for safety. We are trusting someone else to say that it is safe.
The same company's founder said “Money is more important than blood”. That is not good enough in Canada.
Why are we trusting and repeating the errors of the past when it relates to tainted blood?
Mr. Speaker, I can do no more than rely on the facts. I urge the member to be responsible in the way he is dealing with this issue.
Please, we are dealing with innocent Canadians who need this product for their health and safety. Please, the officials have told me expressly that Alpha has an albumin product that has been approved for marketing in Canada but does not have a licensed importer.
This product has been approved for importing into Canada. It has been approved by the Americans. Surely the member will be responsible enough to deal with the true facts of this matter instead of using it for narrow political purposes.
Mr. Speaker, the finance minister must have trouble sitting down these days with $15 billion in his back pocket.
The Premier of Ontario calls his EI tax grab stealing from Canadians. How much longer will Canadians have to wait—
Withdraw.
My colleague, as you know, we cannot use the words of somebody else if they are words that we would not be allowed to use. I would ask you not to use the word again in question period.
Mr. Speaker, the Premier of Ontario said he obtained the money through very questionable means. How much longer will Canadians have to pay to fatten the finance minister's election fund?
Mr. Speaker, over the course of the last year the government has reduced the employment insurance premiums from $2.90 to $2.70, one of the largest reductions in history.
At the same time we have reduced income taxes for 83% of Canadians and we have put $1.5 billion into the Canadian health and social transfer, all at the same time eliminating the deficit.
Now the question is if the hon. member would decrease unemployment insurance premiums more, which of those other options would he not have chosen?
Mr. Speaker, this really does not have to be. The fact is the finance minister has kept premiums artificially high, milking business people and workers and all the while ending up killing hundreds of thousands of jobs in the Canadian economy. That is what payroll taxes do.
Canadians want a date. They want to know when they can expect real cuts to EI premiums, not the nickels and dimes the finance minister just mentioned. When are we to get real cuts?
Mr. Speaker, since we have taken office the unemployment insurance premiums have gone down from where they were at $3.30 to $2.07. That is $4.2 billion. That is not nickels and dimes.
The issue is if the hon. member would reduce the unemployment insurance premiums more, would he have increased taxes? Would he not have eliminated the deficit, or would he have done what most of his party would do and that is eviscerate the health care and the education systems of the country?
Mr. Speaker, the surplus in the employment insurance fund will be up to almost $20 billion this year.
In the meantime, the government is depriving thousands of unemployed workers of benefits. The Premier of Ontario is apparently even considering taking Ottawa to court for using the money in the employment insurance fund for purposes other than the ones intended.
How can the Minister of Finance continue to line the government's coffers with money from the employment insurance fund, putting money from workers and employers to uses other than those initially intended, when the very legality of this move is being called into question?
Mr. Speaker, first of all, the reserve in the employment insurance fund was used for the transitional job fund, to create jobs. Is the leader of the Bloc Quebecois against that?
The government's ledgers show that we have eliminated 400,000 taxpayers. Is that not what he would like to see?
We have lowered taxes for 83% of Canadians. Is that not what he would like to see? We have increased transfers to the provinces by $7 billion over a five-year period. Is all this not to his liking?
Mr. Speaker, we are not against job creation, but he is talking about the transitional fund, which is completely empty.
And the government has been able to do all this because it has dipped into the pockets of the most disadvantaged members of society.
What does the minister have to say to unemployed workers and their families, with the banks making exorbitant profits and him raking in more than all the banks together from the pockets of unemployed workers, from the pockets of those who can least afford it? We are talking about over $6 billion a year. This is unacceptable.
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, the leader of the Bloc Quebecois says he wants to create jobs.
Alain Dubuc had this to say in this morning's edition of La Presse: “Politics is killing the economy in Quebec. We will not succeed in lowering the unemployment rate—as long as we continue to bleed ourselves dry over this political debate, which is getting us nowhere”.
If jobs are what is wanted, then the threat of a referendum has got to go.
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, this morning, the Minister of Finance announced that he had some decisions to make concerning the indecent surplus in the employment insurance fund.
It was high time he woke up, for the surplus was beginning to exceed the levels allowable by law.
May we know more about these famous decisions the minister intends to make about his surplus, a surplus that has always been immoral and is now becoming increasingly illegal?
Mr. Speaker, is it immoral to fund the transitional job creation fund? Is it immoral to put money into health and education? Is it immoral to help young people, those who need work, single mothers? If that is the Bloc Quebecois' idea of morality, it is not one shared by Quebeckers nor Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, it is immoral to continue to give such answers when there are thousands of unemployed people in distress.
And while he was answering my question—
Oh, oh.
The hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe—Bagot has the floor.
Mr. Speaker, in the minute it took for the Minister of Finance to reply to my question, the employment insurance surplus increased by $12,000?
During oral question period, it will have increased by $700,000. By the end of this month, the amount stolen from the unemployed will total $85 million.
Oh, oh.
When will the minister stop siphoning off money from the unemployed?
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is not going to create any employment by working himself up into a state.
Since we assumed power, there have been 1.2 million new jobs, 453,000 new jobs in the last year—
You look out for your boats, but not for the unemployed.
—have been created in Canada. This is how jobs are created, by investing in education and in the health of Canadians, in—
Mr. Speaker, emergency provisions allow the health minister to permit the use of unlicensed blood products in exceptional circumstances on a case by case basis.
However the health minister is permitting unlicensed albumin to be used routinely and extensively in hospitals across the country. Instead of accusing those concerned of fearmongering, why does the minister not act before, not after another blood tragedy?
Mr. Speaker, the member does not understand the system. It is not the products that are licensed. It is the importers that are licensed. Products are approved or disapproved. In the case of albumin from Alpha, it has been approved by both American and Canadian authorities. They have applied safety standards and they have approved the product.
Would the member confine herself to the facts. We had her calling over to the department last week. We sat her down with the officials. We gave her all the facts, instead of engaging in what she is doing right now, and as the member for Macleod is doing, which is creating fear on the part of Canadians who take this product without regard for the facts.
Mr. Speaker, that don't worry, be happy, somebody else is minding the store attitude of the minister shows that he has not learned a thing from the Krever inquiry.
If the albumin meets Canadian standards, why is the government still importing it under the emergency measures? The minister refuses to inspect and test its unlicensed albumin. Why not enforce the Canadian law, inspect the sites, test the samples, trace the lot, and just enforce the law?
Mr. Speaker, the reason the Alpha product is being permitted into Canada under the special access provision is that all the licensed importers are out of product. Physicians have come to Health Canada and said “Please let us use this product”, even though they do not have a licensed importer. We looked at the product and it has been approved, as the Americans approved it.
The question is, is it safe? The authorities have examined it. They have applied standards and they have said it should be approved. That is the issue, not whether the product is licensed. Products are not licensed. They are either approved or not approved and this product has been approved.
Mr. Speaker, I just heard the Minister of Finance say that he had created jobs in health care and education. I would like to tell that to all the doctors and nurses who have had to leave our part of the country and go to the United States to work.
We have been asking the finance minister to stop taxing jobs by keeping EI premiums higher than needed for two years. Back in my riding we have the highest unemployment rate that we have had in 30 years.
The EI fund is not supposed to be used to pad the government's books. Now that the EI surplus is at least $12 billion, will the government reduce this job killing tax to $2 today?
Mr. Speaker, I hate to point this out to the hon. member, but in fact when the previous Conservative government took office from the Liberals the rate was at $2. I hate to do this but in 1989 under the Tories the rate was $1.95. In 1990 it went up to $2.25. Then it went up to $2.80. Then it went up to $3. When we took office it was going up to $3.30 and we would not let it happen. That is why it is at $2.70 today.
Mr. Speaker, I want to tell the hon. finance minister that when we were in power we had 4,000 people working at the shipyard and now we do not have people working at the shipyard. We just lost Atlantic Sugar a week ago.
I want to say to the minister that the government's own actuary has said that the EI premiums need not be any higher than $2. Media reports indicate that government officials are saying that the finance minister will have to amend the EI act if he wants to keep padding the books at the expense of the Canadian taxpayers.
Is that what the minister is planning to do, or will he cut those premiums and put more money back in the pockets—
The hon. Minister of Finance.
Mr. Speaker, I find it unfortunate to have to correct the historical record, but in fact when the hon. member's party was last in power there was a deficit in the unemployment insurance fund of $6 billion.
I would also like to point out that in the Canadian economy over one million jobs were created in the last four years. In the last three years of the Tory regime there were over 200,000 jobs lost in the Canadian economy.
Mr. Speaker, in fact the only thing left in the $15 billion EI surplus is an IOU from the finance minister. Today when asked if he felt good about ripping off the surplus from Canadian business and workers he said that we have choices to make.
Why does the finance minister think it is such a good choice to continue ripping off business workers in the EI surplus when he knows very well that these payroll taxes are killing jobs and killing investment in this country?
Mr. Speaker, every year since we have been in office we have cut those premiums. We have demonstrated our desire to do so.
The choices have to be made. The one the Reform Party ought to face up to is that you cannot do everything at once and at the same time make sure that the country's books stay in the black.
I ask the hon. member when he stands up on his preamble, would he not have cut taxes? Would he not have put money back into the Canadian health and social transfer? Would he not have put more money back into education? Would he not have eliminated the deficit?
Mr. Speaker, human resources bungling cost taxpayers $1 million and Newfoundlanders 124 jobs when the BPS call centre went belly up. Now we have learned that the $1 million earmarked for company salaries did not even get to the employees. The Newfoundland government is picking up the tab.
Since the minister is forcing taxpayers to pay twice for jobs that no longer exist, why will he not tell us where the money went?
Mr. Speaker, I have never heard of this particular case that taxpayers would be paying twice for jobs. This is a very vague and ambiguous question. I will look into the particular case.
I can tell the member that the transitional job fund has created thousands of very good and solid jobs in difficult regions in Canada. We are very proud of having created those jobs all over the country. I am very sorry that those members are not happy to see a government that is investing in helping unemployed Canadians to go back to work. That is what Canadians expect of us.
Mr. Speaker, when we raise questions about the dramatic drop in employment insurance benefits, the Minister of Human Resources Development says he has compensated for the drop by adding active measures directly linked to the transitional jobs fund.
Will the minister confirm that, despite his fine words and his promises, there is not one cent left for Quebec in the transitional jobs fund?
Mr. Speaker, the transitional jobs fund is clearly an extremely popular program that has created thousands of jobs in Quebec and elsewhere in Canada.
It is a transitional fund intended to last three years, that is, until March 31, 1999. It is to be expected that funds lasting until March 31, 1999 will be committed now, if they are to be spent by March 31, 1999.
The funds are committed, but they have not yet all been spent. They will be spent over the coming months until March 31, 1999.
Mr. Speaker, did the minister just confirm that a meeting was recently held for the heads of employment centres, where they were told that the fund that was supposed to last until 1999 has already dried up and will remain dry until 1999?
Mr. Speaker, what I said was that there are $300 million in the transitional fund, $95 million or 30% of which is for Quebec and has to last until March 31, 1999.
It is committed at the moment, because, understandably, if we want to spend it by March 31, 1999, we have to make commitments. There is nevertheless some manoeuvring room, because the costs of projects are sometimes less than forecast. So there is some flexibility, but less so at the end of the program than at its start. This is how responsible management works, generally.
Mr. Speaker, we managed to chase Andrew Thompson out of the Senate last fall, but it looks like Allan MacEachen just does not know when to leave. Legally he should have retired two years ago when he turned 75 years old, but we find out now that he is on Parliament Hill. He has an office, computers and free government telephone services. Surely 12 years is enough at the Senate trough.
I ask the Prime Minister, when will the Liberal Party pay back the taxpayers of Canada for this—
The question is out of order.
The hon. member for Roberval.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the Minister of Human Resources Development recognized that his government had deliberately made it harder for young people to qualify for employment insurance, so that they will stay in school.
The minister claims in all seriousness that the government made cuts to the employment insurance program for the good of young people.
My question to the Minister of Human Resources Development is this: Is it truly his government's intention, through its employment insurance reform, to deny benefits to three out of four young people, so as to force them to go back to school?
Mr. Speaker, we are also giving an insurance premium holiday to any business that will hire young people, in an effort to help young Canadians enter the workforce. That too is part of the employment insurance reform.
What I said yesterday is that we, on this side of the House, have ambitions for our young people. We want them to have access to the labour market, and we know that this will be achieved through greater skills and knowledge.
What I said yesterday is that, when it is too easy to get EI benefits, this becomes an incentive to—
Oh, oh.
The hon. member for Roberval.
Mr. Speaker, the minister does not seem to understand that these young people have worked, paid premiums and are thus entitled to employment insurance benefits, whether he likes it or not.
Does the minister not find it unacceptable that young people who decide to enter the job market and who unfortunately lose their jobs are forced to go back to school because the minister says so? If these young people are not entitled to employment insurance benefits, why does the minister make them pay premiums?
Mr. Speaker, if young people are not eligible for employment insurance benefits, it is precisely because they have not yet entered the labour market. This is obvious.
Oh, oh.
The fact of the matter is that those who have not accumulated the required hours of work do not qualify. I think that when—
Oh, oh.
The Minister of Human Resources Development.
Anyone will agree that an employment insurance system that is too readily accessible is an incentive for young people to enter the labour market too soon, sometimes before they are ready. This is something I have seen personally in many regions of Quebec. That is why we have greater ambitions for young Quebeckers.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the minister of defence if he could confirm that Canadian forces surgeon general Wendy Clay has been charged with at least one criminal offence.
Mr. Speaker, I can only say that the matter is under investigation.
Mr. Speaker, I am not asking about an investigation. My understanding is that the investigation is passed. The surgeon general has been charged with obstruction of justice and possibly the destruction of evidence.
I ask that the minister confirm whether that is the case.
Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of that being the case. The information I have is that the matter is under investigation.
As the hon. member knows from his policing days, until the investigation is completed there is nothing further that can be said about it.
Mr. Speaker, today is the day the government is going to impose its millennium scholarship bill on us.
It never tried to bargain in good faith with the Government of Quebec despite its very reasonable proposal. It never listened to the collected representatives of the education community in Quebec. It did not even deign to answer a letter from the premier or react to a unanimous motion by the Quebec National Assembly.
Why is the Prime Minister stubbornly ignoring the Quebec consensus headed by the rector of McGill University, the national Assembly's unanimous resolution and even Mr. Bouchard's appeal to honour Quebec's jurisdiction in this area?
Mr. Speaker, I answered Mr. Bouchard today. Over the next ten years, our plan is to help 100,000 Canadians reap the benefits of education, an essential requirement for the 21st century.
Mr. Speaker, there are grounds for concern about the disastrous consequences that may occur worldwide when we reach the year 2000.
Canada is not yet ready for the year 2000 and could face power grid disruptions and breakdowns in the business, health and communications sectors.
Would the Prime Minister tell all Canadians in the public and private sector of the importance of becoming year 2000 ready?
Mr. Speaker, I wish to thank the members of the House of Commons Industry Committee who are addressing this problem and are attempting, with the help of the Minister of Industry, to alert Canadians so that everyone will be prepared and there will be no problem when the year 2000 arrives.
It is a serious problem and we are doing our best to alleviate it. Canada is in a better position than most countries. It was a subject that was debated in Birmingham at the G-8 meeting. Everyone around the world has realized that if countries are not ready for the year 2000 problems will develop.
I am happy to report that we are ahead of other countries but it does not mean we will be ready. We must make sure that everyone remains—
The hon. member for Vancouver—Sunshine Coast.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration.
Yesterday the minister refused to answer my question concerning the granting of refugee status to a convicted hijacker and seven others currently held in an Israeli jail.
Rather than duck and weave, will the minister today assure this House that she has no intention of granting status to these individuals?
Mr. Speaker, we will always examine requests from the United Nations High Commission on Refugees to help refugees throughout the world.
That said, we are also going to respect the Immigration Act and to make the necessary medical, criminal record, and security checks. It is therefore very clear that we will never admit anyone to Canada who is going to represent a danger to Canadians.
I believe that the hon. member of the opposition is still trying to perpetuate the myth that refugees are—
The hon. member for West Vancouver—Sunshine Coast.
Mr. Speaker, of these eight people, one of them is a hijacker and some are spies. These are not normal refugees.
Will the minister assure the House and all Canadians that they will not be accepted in this country?
Mr. Speaker, the information given by the member is completely false. This is a way for him and his party to create rifts all the time. When we want to help genuine refugees, we will do so but not against the protection of Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, this government's failing grade on the environment reflects on the leadership of the Prime Minister.
The environment commissioner warned that if the performance does not improve, the environment and our health will be threatened. Yet the environment minister seems to be unwilling to make substantial changes.
How does the Prime Minister expect that this problem will be solved if the environment minister does not even realize there is a problem?
Mr. Speaker, I have never denied that there are problems in the environment in Canada. It is my role to work with the government to ensure Canadians have better quality air, water and natural ecosystems.
Our department has worked very hard, has worked with Canadians from coast to coast at grassroots level to improve our environment. We will continue to do so and bring in policies and measures to do so.
Mr. Speaker, it is the Prime Minister's responsibility to protect the health and safety of Canada.
The environment commissioner warns that inaction will be disastrous. The lack of resources and measurable targets will lead to an accumulative deterioration of our health and ecosystem.
Will the Prime Minister rise today and commit human and financial resources to revive the integrity of our environment? It takes guts to restore a gutted department.
Mr. Speaker, our government is committed to the environment and we will continue to meet the existing challenges.
As human beings become more engaged in the environment in Canada, there are more challenges. We have specific targets to try to meet all the challenges and assure Canadians of a good environment.
The environment affects Canadians' health and it is important to all of us in the government.
Mr. Speaker, we asked the finance minister to cut EI premiums on October 7, October 31, November 7, November 28 and December 1. The minister has refused.
High payroll taxes kill jobs. Will May 27, 1998 go down as another day that this minister refuses to give Canadians the tax breaks and the jobs they need?
The minister is trying to build a war chest on the backs of unemployed Canadians. Does the minister honestly believe that significant payroll tax reductions would not lead to job growth in Canada?
Mr. Speaker, if that is the position of the member's party, why was that not the position it took when it was in government?
We have reduced payroll taxes $4.2 billion more per year than when that government was in power. We will continue in this vein because reducing personal income taxes, reducing payroll taxes and investing in health care and education are the priorities of the government.
Mr. Speaker, listen to this quotation: “Whatever may be the situation in the past, we are now confronted in this country by very serious problems and the government should address these problems. They should not seek refuge in history”. That was from Paul Martin Sr. in 1956 in the House.
I have a news flash for the minister. Ten cent cuts are not good enough.
In Halifax in March the minister said that significant payroll tax reductions would not lead to job growth. Yet in his budget he reduced payroll taxes for youth significantly. Why is it good enough for young people but not good enough for all Canadians?
If payroll taxes will not lead to job growth, why did he give—
The hon. Minister of Finance.
Mr. Speaker, I can certainly understand why the hon. member would not want to discuss his party's history. A $42 billion deficit is now down to zero. Unemployment of 11.5% is now down to 8.4%. Consumer confidence is up. Retail confidence is up. Business investment is surging. That is today. It was not the case six years ago.
Mr. Speaker, I am very proud to say that yesterday Ontario became the eighth province to adopt the Calgary Declaration.
The Bloc Quebecois, however, is trying to make us believe that few Canadians support the declaration.
My question is to the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs. What is the significance of this declaration, this vote in favour of the declaration and the message it sends to all Canadians?
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, in supporting the Calgary Declaration, Ontario's legislative assembly and the leaders of the three major Ontario parties expressed very forcefully the feelings of the people of Ontario towards those of Quebec. The three leaders spoke as great Canadians, as real statesmen.
Prime Minister Harris said “If we work together, Ontarians and Quebeckers can certainly keep this country united”.
Opposition leader, Dalton McGuinty, said:
“We believe that it is better to grow together than to grow apart”.
Finally, the leader of the NDP, Howard Hampton—
The member for Yorkton—Melville.
Mr. Speaker, in the ruling of the Ontario court of appeal last month in the Rosenberg case, the judges changed the meaning of the term spouse in the federal Income Tax Act.
Does the justice minister believe it is right for unelected judges to make changes like this, or should those changes be made by this parliament, by the elected representatives of the people of Canada?
Mr. Speaker, while I know it is hard for the official opposition to accept this fact, under the Constitution of this country the judiciary has an important constitutional role to play. In the Rosenberg case the judiciary was doing what it was constitutionally obligated to do, interpret and apply the law.
Mr. Speaker, one year after its promises in the last election campaign, all signs are that the government is finally getting ready to announce what it plans to do to offset the impact of its tobacco legislation on sports and cultural events.
On the eve of the Montreal Grand Prix, and in light of the many questions we have asked, will the minister undertake to make his announcements himself right here, out of respect for the House, particularly as he will probably need our support to get his future amendments through?
Mr. Speaker, I will introduce the amendments when the government is ready.
Mr. Speaker, the employment insurance program belongs to the workers of this country. The surplus currently amounts to $17 billion.
My question is for the Minister of Human Resources Development. Does he agree with me that this $17 billion surplus is, in fact, money stolen from the workers?
Mr. Speaker, at the request of the auditor general, the employment insurance fund has been consolidated with the government's financial statements since 1986.
Having said that, as the hon. member knows full well, this fund is used by my colleague to finance the transitional jobs fund. That has been made quite clear.
We are using it, but we have also reduced EI premiums since we came to office. Lower interest rates, which benefit all Canadians, lower taxes and investment in transfer payments to the provinces clearly show—
The hon. member for Fundy—Royal.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Yesterday the environment commissioner's report on the government's mishandling of the environment clearly stated that if the performance of the government does not improve, the environment and the health of Canadians will be damaged. It is a sad situation when there are more than six traffic officers to patrol Parliament Hill looking for parking violations while this government has only one environmental assessment officer for the province of New Brunswick.
Does the Prime Minister want to be known as the Prime Minister of parking lots or as a Prime Minister with a genuine interest in preserving Canada's environment?
Mr. Speaker, it is a very important priority for this government to look after its environment and to improve it where there are deficiencies.
We have made commitments to make sure Canadians have clean air and clean water. We have policies and regulations in place. The people in my a department work as a team. People are designated a certain position, but we work as a team, and we do enforce our regulations and our policies.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today on a question of privilege. I have given the Chair a copy of the grievance that I bring to the attention of the House and I have also contacted the office of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the Government to indicate to him that I wanted to rise today on a question of privilege.
In the past, in your wisdom, you have offered guidance on similar matters and I would hope for the same today. Needless to say, if you determine that I do have a question of privilege I am willing to move the necessary motion to bring this matter to the appropriate parliamentary committee.
It is a long and honourable custom in the House that members of parliament are to provide other members factual information and only the truth. It is part of the law of privilege that a member of this House in the performance of his or her duties can expect the truth from ministers of the crown, even if the truth should be that ministers cannot or will not answer the question raised.
Either we as members of parliament on all sides are entitled to rest secure in the knowledge that we are going to receive the truth in ministerial replies or we are not. Parliament is dependent upon ministers providing truthful information so that they and the government as a whole can be held accountable. This doctrine is the hub around which much of our parliamentary life revolves and lies behind our existing practices of parliamentary disclosure of official information.
In essence, it means that ministers have to provide truthful information about the exercise of their responsibilities in order that an account can be rendered in parliament.
Over the years different mechanisms have been developed for the disclosure of information, parliamentary Order Paper questions being a prime example of the mechanism for eliciting factual information.
A failure to provide to the House truthful information is considered a grave offence. After a careful review of various precedents, in 1978 Speaker Jerome summarized in the form of a question what I think is still the convention of this House. I quote:

Does that lead to the conclusion that, by virtue of an act or omission, the House or a member has directly or indirectly been impeded in the performance of its functions or his duty, or that there has been a tendency to produce such a result? If I find so, then I really have no choice but to find, prima facie, that a contempt has been committed.

Conventions governing responses to written parliamentary questions have been established to govern the disclosure of information by government to parliament. Such conventions have recognized that a balance must be struck between the legitimate requirements of government to have a certain degree of privacy for the proper conduct of its business and the need to ensure that parliament has the factual information which it requires to scrutinize the executive and hold ministers to account.
It is right for members and for the Chair to ask themselves if sanctioning the tabling of obviously false information to parliamentary questions strengthens or weakens our parliamentary institutions. A parliamentary democracy cannot function unless parliamentarians are permitted to know what their government is up to.
An approach to written parliamentary questions that does not respect the fundamental feature of our system will undermine rather than strengthen Canadian parliamentary democracy.
Where does it leave us if we disregard the fundamental principles of ministerial responsibility?
Mr. Speaker, I am sure you will remind honourable members th