As is our practice on Wednesday we will now sing O Canada, and we will be led by the hon. member for Saint John.
Mr. Speaker, in that spirit I have the pleasure to rise today to congratulate the musicians of Atlantic Canada on the occasion of the 12th annual East Coast Music Awards in Sydney last Sunday night.
The evening was a terrific celebration of traditional and contemporary music emerging from the east coast. Great Big Sea, An Acoustic Sin, John Gracie, Glamour Puss and Natalie McMaster were among the big winners of the evening as were Morning Star, the Nova Scotia Mass Choir and John Curtis Sampson.
Music has long been important in defining who we are in Atlantic Canada, so it is gratifying to see so many of our artists rise to the top.
Congratulations to the honoured artists. As J. P. Cormier said upon accepting his award, when one of us wins, we all win.
Mr. Speaker, in the past month I have had the pleasure of attending several Action for Struggling Agriculture Producers meetings in southern Alberta.
I want to thank the hundreds of farmers who came out to these meetings and shared with me their thoughts on the farm income crisis. As I travel across my riding and as I travel across the country, I am told over and over that the Liberal government has completely lost touch with Canadians.
This arrogant government has turned its back on farmers, promising help but not delivering. It has turned its back on families, promising to cut taxes while secretly raising them. It has turned its back on the sick, promising to defend health care while slashing billions.
Canadians pay the highest taxes in the western world and what do they get? An arrogant, out of touch Liberal government squandering billions upon billions of their hard earned tax dollars.
The time has come to restore hope. The time has come for change.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to commemorate Canada's first Braille Day as proclaimed by our Deputy Prime Minister.
Today we honour the memory of Louis Braille. It was Mr. Braille who developed and introduced a system of six raised dots that revolutionized the lives of blind and visually impaired people around the world.
A combination of these six magic dots have made it possible for a person who is blind to read. The ability to read the printed word opens countless doors.
Braille Day is an opportunity to highlight the importance of this invention and the impact it has on literacy.
I ask my colleagues to join in celebrating Canada's first Braille Day. This year's theme is Braille equals equality.
Mr. Speaker, right now we are celebrating the year of the dragon. The dragon symbolizes vitality, prosperity and power.
When the dragon enters into this new century it makes a magnificent year for Chinese communities in Canada and around the world. It is a golden chance to celebrate the richness of Chinese culture and the contributions of Chinese Canadians. The celebrations will enhance the understanding and appreciation of Canada's diversity and its multicultural society.
Today the 40 groups of the national capital region Chinese community and I will host a Chinese New Year celebration on the Hill. Many members of parliament will participate in this non-partisan joyful event to exchange good wishes.
May you have good health, prosperity and success in the year of the dragon.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians are tired of the government's promises to bring in effective youth criminal justice legislation.
We are nearing the third anniversary of the appointment of the present justice minister. After months of promises she finally introduced Bill C-68 and then Bill C-3 as her response to the highly criticized Young Offenders Act.
Press releases were long on talk of getting tough on crime. Now Canadians are discovering that the proposals leave far too many opportunities for even more leniency toward violent young offenders.
There is a groundswell of opposition developing across the country. Two individuals, Bruce McGloan from Calgary and Joseph Wamback from Newmarket, Ontario, have joined forces and have been collecting petitions to oppose the government's actions on youth justice. They now have hundreds of thousands of supporters.
These individuals are just two who have been victimized by violent crimes against their children. Bruce lost his son to a young killer. Joseph's son is now paralyzed after a violent assault. Bruce and Joe are to be commended for their efforts, but the government should be ashamed of its record.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to point out how great a need there is for Human Resources Development Canada's programs, including the Canada jobs fund.
It must be made clear that the mandate of this fund is to create jobs and provide financial support to private sector industry to enable it to compete with businesses internationally.
Since our government has been in power, over 1.7 million jobs have been created. In my riding, textile manufacturers such as Christina Canada, Tricot Exclusive and Heritage Decoys have created 239 jobs. In 1998-99 my riding was able to create a total of 291 jobs.
This is just one program in one riding but I can speak about all the HRDC programs which help Canadians find jobs, school help dropouts learn skills and find employment, help the disabled and illiterate become productive members of society. So why are the opposition members attacking a program that does so much good for so many Canadians?
Mr. Speaker, this afternoon, Gilles Kègle, a remarkable resident of my riding of Québec, will become a member of the Order of Canada.
Affectionately known as the friend of the poor, the street nurse and the knight of the down and out, he has focused all his energies since 1986 on relieving human suffering in the Saint-Roch neighbourhood of Quebec City.
This man works without pay tirelessly 16 hours a day, seven days a week, with the seniors and the disadvantaged in Saint-Roch. Maison Gilles-Kègle, which he has founded, serves as kitchen, laundry, infirmary and meeting place for the team of 77 volunteers that form the Missionnaires de la paix.
Many expressions of gratitude have cited and continue to cite the devotion of this modest man, devotion that knows no bounds and that puts hope and dignity in the hearts of the abandoned people of society for whom he works so hard.
To Gilles Kègle and his missionaries of peace, thanks for making people the focus of your work.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to welcome to Ottawa students from the Inuujaq School in Arctic Bay, Nunavut who are participating in an exchange program with Hillcrest High School.
These Inuujaq School students are excellent role models for Nunavut youth for they are community minded individuals who have shown great initiative in the various ventures they undertake. As volunteers in the non-profit High School Café, these students have raised money for many worthy causes and have brought great joy to many lives.
I wish the Inuujaq School and the Hillcrest High School exchange students continued success in their endeavours. I know they will treasure the memories of their visit for a lifetime. Thank you. Mutna .
Mr. Speaker, on Monday, 25 people from the Montreal region were honoured by the governor general. These were all people who had served others in various ways, examples of solidarity reminding us that there is always a place in a society like ours for lending a helping hand to others.
These volunteers earned recognition for what often seem very simple acts, but these are acts perceived almost as a blessing by their recipients.
This opportunity to celebrate unsung heroes should make us realize that it is possible for each and every one of us to be a hero, by extending a helping hand or an act of courtesy when the opportunity presents itself in our daily lives.
I would also like to draw attention to this ability we all have within us to show generosity and human kindness at a time when we are seeking to return to old-fashioned values in order to give a more human face to our society.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the late Doug Henning who passed away yesterday.
Doug was born in Winnipeg in 1947 A city that he might say could be a little closer to heaven.
As a child Doug had become fascinated with tricks And as a student was well known for his psychedelic hippie shticks.
Doug flew with friends and heroes in high places of sorts Houdini, Ivan Reitman, and fellow Canadian Martin Short.
Doug's middle name became known as “Levitation” An act that earned him world fame and many standing ovations.
But who would have thought that the creator of spellbound alone Had an idea to make the House of Commons his home.
For in the end it was this entertaining magician Who dreamed of turning himself into a natural law politician.
I wish that Doug could have worked his magic in this place To elevate government to a new space.
Doug, you blessed us with your lighthearted, free-spirited rise If only we could have seen the world through your eyes.
It is with sadness that we say goodbye And with new wings may you always fly high.
Mr. Speaker, in my riding of Timiskaming—Cochrane communities are 100% behind HRDC. Here is what they have to say.
From the town of Cochrane: “I trust the federal government will continue with this program despite the negativity created by opposing parties”.
From the town of New Liskeard: “I request your continued support for financial assistance programs to improve the quality of life in Timiskaming—Cochrane”.
From the town of McGarry: “We wish to advise you of our support for your government. We trust that your government will continue to provide funding for these very important programs”.
From Cochrane Public Utilities Commission: “Without the assistance of HRDC, 76 people would still be unemployed in Cochrane”.
From the town of Iroquois Falls: “Please be assured of my community's full support on this issue”.
From the town of Kirkland Lake: “I would like to express my support to the HRDC minister”.
Finally from the town of Charlton: “We would like to support our MP in fighting the official opposition and extreme right wing media who want to eliminate these”—
The hon. member for Sydney—Victoria.
Mr. Speaker, I am glad to hear many people support the program.
I am prepared to say that this government has seriously jeopardized that program essential to areas of high unemployment in the country. The government has tainted the transitional jobs fund through at best, mismanagement, at worst, patronage and old style pork-barrel politics. By bungling and mismanagement the government has hurt the people who need the program most, the unemployed.
My colleagues and I in the NDP stand behind programs to help the unemployed.
The shadow cast over this program by mismanagement has fueled the Reform Party's call for an end to such programs. The Reform Party would gladly abandon those in need in high unemployment areas. The Liberals would help them if it means passing the money around to their friends. Only the NDP stands for job creation free from political interference.
Mr. Speaker, the Liberal government seems prepared to do anything to get what it wants. After violating the parliamentary rules last December in making their Bill C-20 public, now we again have the Prime Minister making a mockery of democracy.
Yesterday the Prime Minister said “We do not want to waste too much of the House's time on this. We want to move ahead as quickly as possible”.
The Bloc Quebecois would like to remind the government that, in a democracy, there is but one rate of speed, the one which allows the people to have their voices heard and heeded. This is particularly the case because of the vital importance of Bill C-20, since it lays open to question the fundamental rules of democracy and freedom.
The members of the Bloc Quebecois wish to hear what the groups in society have to say, and they call upon the government to organize extensive public hearings on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, February 7 was Food Freedom Day in Canada when the average family has earned enough to pay for an entire year's worth of food.
We enjoy the most affordable food system in the world. Only 9.8% of our disposable income goes to food compared to 11% in the United States and 33% in Mexico. Our farmers produce high quality and safe food at competitive prices but the farmer's portion has shrunk.
The question is, how many Canadians know that from a $1.50 loaf of bread the farmer gets 9 cents, or that if we have a glass of milk today for $1.50, less than 16 cents is returned to the farmer? A waiter or waitress will earn more from tips on a meal than a farmer earns for growing the food.
Our farmers are the most efficient and competitive in the world but the return on the raw product they produce gets smaller and smaller even though exports continue to rise.
Yes, let us celebrate Food Freedom Day while mindful that farmers must get a fair price to help them stay in business.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to remind the Minister of Finance that he should not forget health care when he brings down his budget.
The budget has been balanced but there have been serious casualties as a result of the process. One of them is our health care system which is now seriously underfunded and not giving Canadians the level of protection they want and deserve.
The minister is no doubt besieged by demands on his new budget but I implore him to first and foremost reinvest in health care. That is what the 10 premiers want. That is what the medical community wants and that is what the Canadian people want. When they show up at emergency on any given Saturday night Canadians want sufficient doctors on duty and they want beds available when they have to be admitted.
After all, if we do not have our health, how will we ever enjoy our tax cuts?
Mr. Speaker, my beautiful riding of Verdun—Saint-Henri is home to several veterans of the merchant navy. I have made numerous representations to the Minister of Veterans Affairs so that non taxable compensation be paid to these veterans.
Today, I want to congratulate the Minister of Veterans Affairs, who announced last week that the war effort of merchant navy veterans is now recognized by the Government of Canada.
The minister announced a $50 million compensation program for these veterans. This concrete action means that we recognize the importance of the sacrifice of merchant mariners and their contribution to Canada's war effort.
We do live in a beautiful country, do we not?
Mr. Speaker, the human resources minister has known for more than five months about this billion dollar bungle. She knows that audit represents just a tiny percentage of what is actually out there in terms of files. She knows there are billions more dollars at stake here and she knows that will come out.
She loves to blame her officials, which is unfortunate, but I would like to ask her how many of her top officials has she suspended, moved or fired as a result of this billion dollar bungle.
Mr. Speaker, here again the opposition continues on this firing and resignation treadmill. I want to tell the House that while the opposition members are on that treadmill I am making distance.
We are implementing a six point plan so that we will have a quality administration of grants and contributions in my department, so that we can track every working tax dollar and that Canadians can measure us by our results.
Mr. Speaker, it looks to me like a Damascus road conversion. It was just last week when the minister said they were all in the dark ages.
This minister is responsible for billions of dollars of taxpayers' money. She has proven that this current team can bungle a billion dollars, which is no small task. She talks about her six point plan. Her little six point plan is lovely, but if the same guys who dropped the ball the first time around carry it again, we could lose another billion dollars here. We say enough, stop already.
I ask the minister again how many of her officials has she moved, suspended or fired as a result of this boondoggle.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to advise the hon. member again that a billion dollars has not disappeared. We know where it is.
I say again that I take my responsibility as minister seriously. That is why we are implementing the plan and we will build a quality administration to ensure this never happens again.
Mr. Speaker, the minister claims that she takes her responsibility seriously, but we have seen the Prime Minister for days on the news talking about what real ministerial accountability was.
He stood here in his place in 1991 and said that when ministers have problems, and we are talking serious problems in the department, they should take the fall.
This minister is the political CEO of the whole organization of HRD. She could come out with a 42 point plan but it is not going to work because she is at the top. When will she start by firing herself and sending that signal?
Mr. Speaker, not only am I convinced that the plan is going to work but an independent outside official thinks it is going to work, and that would be the auditor general.
I remind the House that the auditor general says of our plan: “In our opinion the proposed approach presents a thorough plan for corrective action to address the immediate control problems that were identified”.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has been caught in a glaring credibility gap. To deflect criticism of this top bureaucrat he told Canadians that Mel Cappe had specially ordered the HRDC audit.
This cover-up was flatly contradicted by HRDC officials who disclosed that it was a routine internal audit. When will the Prime Minister stop misleading Canadians, covering up—
Withdraw, withdraw.
I would invite my colleagues to please stay away from the word misleading. It incites us a little more.
Mr. Speaker, there was an audit that was asked for. They do that under the authority of the deputy minister, and the deputy minister knows what is going on in his office. He knew there was an audit, so there was absolutely nothing to quarrel with.
I have to be candid with the House and report that I have received the last note about the number of cases, the 37 that have been reviewed. Seven have been reviewed representing $11,937,000. In five there was absolutely no overpayment and two had overpayment of $250.
Mr. Speaker, let us look at the facts. A random sample of over 60,000 receiving one billion tax dollars showed almost no checking, supervision or tracking. Eight per cent showed even worse wrongdoing. There are 60,000 cases of virtually uncontrolled spending with nearly 5,000 of those so bad we may never get to the bottom of it.
Why is the Prime Minister covering up the massive size of the problems in HRDC?
Mr. Speaker, the auditors of the department have been reviewing the files. They have done it in a very professional way. They have been in contact with the auditor general who has accepted the work. The auditor general has said in a public letter that what the department and the minister are doing is the right thing to do.
When the opposition talked about a billion dollars I reported that in $11 million of so-called problems there was an overpayment of a little bit more than $250.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Prime Minister seemed favourable to the idea of having the legislative committee on Bill C-20 broaden its hearings to include not just experts, but other groups with opinions to offer.
According to the Prime Minister, the bill is at the top of the government's list of priorities. If this bill is as important as the government would have us believe, does the Prime Minister not think that he should let the public express its views, and that the best way for it to do that is to have the committee travel throughout Quebec?
Mr. Speaker, I have already answered that question.
This is a bill that affects all provinces in Canada and that will be studied by the House of Commons committee. The committee will decide who may appear before it, but we hope that the bill will be passed as quickly as possible, because it is not a major concern of the public right now.
The public wants us to address other problems, such as job creation, health, tax relief; things of interest to Quebecers and the rest of Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister's remarks are a bit strange, because his parliamentary leader said that it was the government's priority, and now the Prime Minister is telling us it is not important.
However, if the problem is about travelling only to Quebec, and the Prime Minister thinks the committee should travel throughout Canada, no problem; we would go along with that.
So I ask him, because it is well known that the Liberal members on the committee receive their orders from Cabinet—that is no secret; everyone knows that is how it works. I would like the Prime Minister's opinion. Does he agree, yes or no, that the committee should travel throughout Canada, as the Standing Committee on Fisheries and Oceans did. I imagine this is just as important.
Mr. Speaker, it is an important bill which is being debated in the House, and which will be considered in committee next week. The committee will do its job; it will hear from a certain number of witnesses, and the House of Commons will be able to make its views clearly known.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the Prime Minister and the government House leader suggested that individuals and groups would be allowed to testify before the legislative committee, as was the case with the parliamentary committee that reviewed the issue of linguistic school boards, in 1997.
Can the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs confirm that the Liberal majority of the legislative committee will accept that representative groups from Quebec may be heard by the committee?
As all hon. members know, the committees are responsible for their own agenda. In my opinion the question is out of order, but if the government House leader wishes to address it, he may do so.
Mr. Speaker, less than 24 hours ago, the hon. member's leader in the House sent me a memo asking me to address this issue on behalf of the government. I promised that I would give him an answer by the weekend.
It seems to me that the hon. member should speak to his leader to find out what was agreed on yesterday. We will of course provide a very clear answer.
Mr. Speaker, the leader of the Bloc Quebecois and I talk to each other, but we would also like to get the opinion of the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs.
Does the Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs want representative groups from Quebec to be heard by his committee? Does he want, for example, Canadian groups also to be heard, including the Canadian Union of Postal Workers and the National Action Committee on the Status of Women, which are asking the minister to withdraw the bill he introduced in this House?
Mr. Speaker, the committee will determine its own agenda.
Mr. Speaker, the government is withholding information that Canadians have a right to know. What is worse, it is twisting information to conceal the truth for its own purposes.
Why does the government not just come clean with the facts and table the detailed documentation already prepared at public expense on a riding by riding basis of all HRDC grants and contributions?
Mr. Speaker, members have information available then so that they can ask questions. These questions will be answered according to the formula.
I can understand that opposition parties are jealous because the other ministers and I are well prepared for oral question period.
Mr. Speaker, it looks like the Prime Minister has already used up all his lifelines.
When a government deliberately conceals information from its own citizens there is a name for it. It is called cover-up. Why does the government not stop concealing the information—
Oh, oh.
Order, please. The hon. leader of the New Democratic Party can begin her question again if she wishes.
Mr. Speaker, as we know when the government deliberately conceals information from its own citizens there is a name for it. It is called cover-up. Why is the government refusing to disclose all the information riding by riding on all of the HRDC contributions and grants?
Mr. Speaker, this information is public information. Quite frankly, I am surprised that the hon. member does not know what tax dollars are being spent in her riding of Halifax. I would suggest that she go to her Human Resources Development Canada office, sit down with the director and go through all the projects.
Mr. Speaker, I have a very straightforward and specific question for the minister. Would the Minister of HRDC please advise the House of the exact date on which she was first advised of the problems that were uncovered by the internal audit of her department?
Mr. Speaker, this is public knowledge. I received a briefing on the full internal audit on November 17.
Mr. Speaker, the minister has told us she knows where the money is, but does she know how the money was spent?
In March 1998, HRDC released a list of TJF grants awarded that year. On the second updated list produced in December 1999, mysteriously 20 companies that received $8.2 million had been deleted.
If there is no cover-up why did these companies disappear from the list and where did the $8 million go?
Mr. Speaker, if the member would like to provide me with that information I will review it and provide him with an answer.
Mr. Speaker, the minister just said she knew about the mess in HRDC on November 17, but on December 16 she still denied there were any problems. She told the House and the Canadian people something that was absolutely and completely false. She attempted to cover-up a billion dollar boondoggle. That is something that—
Oh, oh.
Order, please. We seem to be escalating the rhetoric, even deliberately misleading. I will not permit that again. He never said the minister was false, but I would like the members to please stay away from these words because they only agitate the House.
Mr. Speaker, the public is very agitated too at the fact that a billion dollars has gone missing and this minister is responsible for trying to cover it up.
When is the minister going to admit that she has told the Canadian people and the House of Commons something that is simply not the case and that she has betrayed the public trust?
Mr. Speaker, it would seem to me that the only party misleading Canadians is the Reform Party.
Oh, oh.
Order, please. It is very difficult for me to hear what anyone is saying when there is so much noise. I appeal to you, my colleagues. I did not hear what the minister said. I would ask all hon. members to please stay away from those words today. It simply inflames us and I do not think we will get the quality of questions or answers we want in question period.
The hon. Minister of Human Resources Development.
Mr. Speaker, it is the Reform Party that keeps suggesting to Canadians that a billion dollars has gone missing. It knows that is not true. We know where the cheques have gone. They have gone to organizations in the ridings of those members and all others in the House.
It is that party that is continuing to undermine the important work that the grants and contributions program does for communities across the country.
Mr. Speaker, the minister's evasiveness does not change the hard facts.
The Minister of Human Resources Development claims she was briefed on that billion dollars on November 17. On December 16 she told this place that there were no problems in HRDC. Obviously there is a big contradiction there.
Why did the minister tell the House something that simply was not the case? Why did she tell the Canadian people that? Why is she betraying the public trust?
Mr. Speaker, I stand by my words in the House. If they choose to read Hansard , they will see that the questions were about specific projects. I was always forthcoming when there were indications of administrative problems.
Mr. Speaker, an internal audit report on Human Resources Canada indicates, based on a sampling of 459 out of 30,000 files, or 1.5% of all the department's files, that there are problems relating to applications from promoters, application approvals, and financial monitoring.
Is the Prime Minister going to acknowledge that these 459 cases everyone is referring to are merely a sampling of the 30,000 files and that, applying the auditors' logic to the whole lot, we end up with thousands of irregular files?
Mr. Speaker, it is absolutely normal for any professional audit to turn up things that need correcting, in any organization. That is why city governments and the private sector have auditing systems. They have to see whether the documents are present as required, and if shortcomings are found, they are corrected.
Take, for example, specific cases in which the auditors found problems. On a total amount of about $12 million, they found two problems in seven files, and an overpayment of $251.50.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister does not seem to realize that by applying the auditors' logic to all Human Resources Development files, the amounts involved add up to between $1 million and $3 million.
What is the Prime Minister waiting for before he calls for a public and independent audit of the department's management?
Mr. Speaker, my reply once again is that we have our internal auditors and they have done their jobs. We have the auditor general, who does his job. Yesterday or the day before, he indicated in a letter that he accepted the department's proposal. As well, the auditor general can report to the House four times a year now, rather than once a year as before.
Mr. Speaker, the minister's own departmental audit uncovered about $1 billion in mismanaged HRDC grants and contributions. But this is just the tip of the iceberg.
The Canadian Aerospace Group International Inc. received $1 million from the transitional jobs fund to establish Panda Aircraft in North Bay, Ontario. When Panda ceased operations, the North Bay development group got its money back.
I would like to know about the Canadian taxpayers. Did they get their money back?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member speaks of individual projects. There will be projects in the course of these undertakings that are more beneficial than others.
As I have said before, as minister my job is to look at the overall impact that the transitional jobs fund has had. Again I say, 30,000 people, who were not working before, are working as a result of that program.
Mr. Speaker, that is all very nice, but I submit it is also her duty to get the money back that Canadian taxpayers put in after an industry fails.
I have just given one example of 60,000 HRDC files. Access to information requests reveal that there are many other files under investigation.
Will the minister tell us just how many other files are under investigation? I would like to know how many other Pandas there are out there.
Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member would just take the time to read the plan that we are implementing, he would see that we are going to review all our active files.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister is trying to anesthetize us in this House by saying, on the basis of an audit of a few hundred cases, that they will not do it again, they made mistakes, they apologize and that is the end of it.
It is only a sample of 1.5% of the 30,000 cases. Everyone is agreed that it is serious, very serious.
How can the Prime Minister be trying to anesthetize everyone with his promise not do it again, when there are thousands of unaudited cases, cases that have not been examined and probably reflect the same percentages as the initial cases, that is, having an error rate of 80%.
Mr. Speaker, we do not know from what the hon. member is trying to extrapolate. We are reviewing—
Oh, oh.
Order, please.
Mr. Speaker, if he would pay attention he would know that we are reviewing the 37 files, as the Prime Minister has said. We will make the results of those reviews public and then we will see what the circumstances are.
I would also add that besides that review, the six point plan ensures that we look at all active files and that will, I am convinced, help us prepare a quality system that will fix this problem.
Mr. Speaker, what sort of credibility does this minister enjoy as she tries to save her skin and says they are preparing to start from scratch? Everyone knows that in an audit a sample will reveal how well things are going in a department. What they discovered is that things are going very badly in her department.
Why did the President of the Treasury Board say that things were very serious and give directions to all departments if things were not serious and all was well at the Department of Human Resources Development?
Mr. Speaker, the mark of a good government is its knowing how to deal with a problem.
What do we do? We identify the problem, its nature and its scope. The minister has done that. We also develop a plan of action to remedy the department's problems. The minister has done that.
In addition, we ensure that there is follow up to be sure the procedure underway will remedy the problems discovered. This is exactly what my colleague at Human Resources Development has done.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Human Resources Development is in denial.
Earlier today she admitted that on November 17 she discovered the reality of the audit that showed the huge waste in her department. However, on December 16 in this place she said “No moneys flowed until the appropriate approvals were in place”.
Why the contradiction? Why did the minister stand in her place and misrepresent the facts? Why did she not tell the truth?
Mr. Speaker, there is no contradiction. If the hon. member would put it in the context of the questions asked, he would see that the questions from his own party were in reference to specific projects.
I stand by my words in the House.
Mr. Speaker, weasel words will not save this minister from accountability. Speaking of which, in 1991 the Prime Minister said “When we form the government, every minister in the cabinet will have to take full responsibility for what is going on in his department”. He said “If there is any bungling in the department, the minister will have to take responsibility”.
Why has the Prime Minister broken his word? Why has he not held the human resources minister responsible for the bungling in her department and for misleading the House? Why was the minister—
Oh, oh.
Order, please. I ask hon. members to please not use the word misleading. I find the question out of order. If the minister wants to answer it, she may.
Mr. Speaker, my ministers and I always take responsibility and that is exactly what we are doing at this time. The auditor general is working with senior bureaucrats of the department to make sure that the audit is done professionally. And that is exactly what is happening.
There were 37 cases where, in the mind of the auditors, there were some difficult problems. So far, out of $12 million, they have identified $251.50 in overpayments and we will collect it back.
Mr. Speaker, I think the Prime Minister's credibility would improve if he were to play a different tape.
Why would we believe that the problem is fixed and that it boils down to $200,000 and change, when there are at least 30,000 cases to be examined? At least 80% of the 459 cases already looked at were problematic.
The Prime Minister should change tapes and tell us what is really going on in this department.
Mr. Speaker, part of the strength of our program is that we will be reporting to Canadians on a quarterly basis on the information that we receive on implementing the program and on the results which that program is going to have.
I am going to be at committee tomorrow. We will be talking about the results to date. I will be before Canadians on a quarterly basis talking about the results as we continue.
This is an open process and we are going to fix the problem.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Industry.
For several weeks now, consumers and truckers have been angered by the price of gasoline at the pumps, of diesel and of heating oil in Canada and in Quebec.
Consumers are right and want to know why the price of gasoline is continuing to climb and why governments are doing nothing about it.
Mr. Speaker, first of all, I would like to say that the member is right to raise an issue that is very important to him—
Oh, oh.
Order, please.
This does not seem to be an important issue for Reform Party members, Mr. Speaker.
First, I would say that, if there is a problem at the retail level, it is up to provincial governments to take action. Second, I have read the media reports from his riding, which say that diesel prices have jumped from 42 cents a litre to 78 cents a litre.
I am sure that the Minister of Natural Resources would agree with me that an explanation is in order and I would like—
Oh, oh.
Order, please.
Mr. Speaker, the HRD minister has been working on a six point plan. She bungled a billion bucks. She spent five months trying to cover up the audit. She stood in this House and pretended that everything was just hunky-dory. She tried to blame her bureaucrats. Now we find that the TJF is some kind of photo-op.
Clearly the next logical step is for her to resign. Where is she now, at step five and a half?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is wrong, wrong, wrong and wrong. I received the report of the internal audit. It said that we had significant problems in the administration of our grants and contributions. I took that seriously. I demanded that we build a strong management plan for implementation. That is now being implemented and we will be reporting to Canadians on a regular basis until the problem is fixed.
Mr. Speaker, the human resources department is the Bre-X of the government. Instead of the ore being salted, the taxpayer has been assaulted.
A small sample audit of one-fifth of the department's activities found 87% of the files unsupervised and 15% with no record of application. If it were a CEO making this announcement the stock would be through the floor and he would be fired.
Why should Canadians tolerate anything less than the minister's resignation?
Mr. Speaker, forgive me but I do not think anybody on that side of the House has actually read the internal audit.
What it talks about are administrative challenges in the department's paperwork. We are taking it seriously because we have to have the foundation strong to support very important grants and contributions that are invested in ridings in all parts of this country.
We are taking this seriously. Canadians want the problem fixed and we will do that.
Mr. Speaker, we have all heard of the Book of Kells. The Liberal House leader is the chief scribe of the book of baloney. The Prime Minister knows it is the book of baloney or else he would share it with us, table it and let us have a look at the contents of the book.
I have my own book of facts and my book says that EI cuts took $20 million out of my riding last year, yet we did not qualify for a single penny of transitional jobs fund money.
I ask the Prime Minister, under what kind of perverse set of rules do rich ridings like Edmonton West and Brant qualify for transitional jobs fund money when my own riding qualifies for not one red cent?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member realized yesterday that he did not know his riding had received more than anyone else. He should check that. He knows it is available. Some programs apply in some ridings, other programs apply in others. But in fact, the member's riding did pretty well. He was shocked to know that he did not know what was going on in his riding.
Mr. Speaker, it is absolutely horrifying to me that this man who sells himself as the champion of clarity in this country really is the grandmaster of obfuscation. He is the Prime Minister of misinformation and he is hiding behind—
Oh, oh.
Order, please. Go directly to the question.
Mr. Speaker, my question is simply this: If the transitional jobs fund is not a Liberal slush fund, then why is it that rich Liberal ridings with far lower unemployment rates than my riding qualify for millions of dollars in benefits? My own riding—
The Right Hon. Prime Minister.
Mr. Speaker, there are rules that apply to everything. We gave them money. When we look at this fund, more money went to opposition ridings of all the other parties than went into the Liberal ridings, because in Ontario the economy is better than in the maritimes, for example, or in rural Quebec.
Mr. Speaker, at press conferences held last week, senior officials from the department told us that the minister had been apprised of the problems at HRDC in August, during the transition period.
I personally received a document dated October 5. That document had been completed before the report. Today, the minister is telling us that she was notified only on November 17. There is a great deal of confusion. Who is telling the truth?
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the hon. member referred to money given to businesses and to contributions made to the Liberal Party.
I have here a list of projects in his riding that received money from the Canadian government and contributed to his party's campaign.
Perhaps the hon. member should call the police about that.
Oh, oh.
Order, please.
Mr. Speaker, according to documents from public accounts there are eight numbered companies that received $3.9 million, yet these companies do not even appear to exist.
Can the minister please tell us who owns these companies and where the money went?
It is not in our rules to answer questions as specific as this. I find the question out of order. I saw the hon. Prime Minister on his feet. If he wishes to address what was said I will permit him to do so.
Mr. Speaker, a minister cannot be asked to give information about one of the thousands upon thousands of cases that are handled by a department. The order paper is there for these requests. The minister will appear with officials before the committee tomorrow, which is also the place to ask these questions.
Yesterday the member for Pictou—Antigonish—Guysborough talked about contributions and about the RCMP. I would like to tell the House that there is a company, C. F. Dickson Forest Products, which gave $1,000 to the PC House leader during the campaign, but did not give a cent to the Liberal Party.
Mr. Speaker, $3.9 million—how could anyone be expected to know about something as insignificant as that?
It is the tradition at this time of year to ask a very specific question of the Minister of Finance. Now, we know that the Prime Minister really tried to upstage the finance minister; a little leadership rivalry perhaps.
Can the finance minister tell us when he will deliver the budget?
Mr. Speaker, I just wanted to get in practice.
It is true that there was a bit of speculation last week from an unknown source as to the date of the budget, and I am pleased to announce that speculation was accurate.
It is my pleasure to announce that the budget will be tabled in the House on Monday, February 28, at 4.00 p.m.
I would like to draw the attention of all hon. members to a very special moment in the history of our Chamber today.
It is my pleasure and indeed my honour to table a new and original reference book entitled House of Commons Procedure and Practice—La Procédure et les Usages de la Chambre des Communes .
Most members, and this is why it is important to us, are accustomed to using certain procedural reference books at our disposal here at the table, for example Bourinot's Parliamentary Procedure and Practice in the Dominion of Canada which was written in the 1880s, and Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms , written in the 1920s.
Starting today we, the members of Parliament of Canada, will be able to have at our disposal a multitude of references to the rules, precedents and practices of our own House, explained in a clear and thorough manner.
This new book reflects our current procedures and practices, and has been written by procedural experts working at the House of Commons. They were headed of course by our own Clerk, Mr. Robert Marleau, and our Deputy Clerk, Mr. Camille Montpetit.
This reference book includes 24 chapters, 15 annexes and 5,800 footnotes. It deals with issues such as parliamentary privilege, speakership, rules and conduct of a debate, the legislative process, committees, private members' business items and many more.
The main rulings and statements made by Speakers are reviewed, and the numerous customs, interpretations and precedents that apply to the House of Commons of Canada are clearly explained.
This is our own book. I am sure it will be used not only in the House but throughout Canada and the Commonwealth. I invite all of you to use it with pride. I do thank our clerks and all those who were involved in the writing of this magnificent new book which will be sent to all of you. I table it in your name.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order to which I trust you will give serious consideration.
Over the last number of days questions have been asked of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Human Resources Development over the misuse of funds at HRDC. In several instances members of the official opposition, and I believe other parties, have used specific examples of the misuse of funds that they have uncovered. You have ruled their questions out of order because they deal with specific examples of wrongdoing that they cannot be expected to know anything about.
When questions are asked in a general sense, the government shoots back with specific examples of where money has been spent in an effort to discredit and embarrass members of parliament. I find that to be entirely objectionable. I am asking if you would rule those kinds of answers out of order as you have ruled the questions out of order.
This has been our practice and our tradition if a question is so specific that a minister or the government cannot be expected to know. Let us say there are 500 of anything. I do not know if the minister can be expected to know the 500. However, when a member asks a question I presume, and I think most members do, that the hon. member wants to get as much information and details that he or she can when the answer is forthcoming.
You may argue that on one side you are getting too much detail, but from what hon. members have been saying to me they are not getting enough details. We have to have that fine balance that the question has to be general enough that you can get a response, but if it is too specific I think we are expecting the impossible from our ministers. That is why we proceed in the way that we do.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to table, in both official languages, a number of order in council appointments recently made by the government.
Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 110(1) these are deemed referred to the appropriate standing committees, a list of which is attached.
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8) I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to 10 petitions.
Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present the 16th report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs regarding the membership of the legislative committee on Bill C-20, an act to give effect to the requirement for clarity as set out in the opinion the Supreme Court of Canada in the Quebec secession reference. This report is deemed adopted on presentation.
In addition, I have the honour to present the 15th report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs regarding the associate membership of the liaison committee. If the House gives its consent, I intend to move concurrence in the 15th report later this day.
Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order. I want to be sure that I heard the hon. member correctly. I think he said he was tabling the committee report dealing with Quebec only.
He referred to Bill C-20 as being for Quebec, while the Prime Minister is telling the House that Bill C-20 concerns all of Canada.
If I am not mistaken, what the hon. parliamentary secretary did is read the title of the bill, which contains the word “Quebec”. I believe that is the answer.

moved for leave to introduce Bill C-421, an act to amend the Export Development Act.

Mr. Speaker, the Export Development Corporation is exempted from the Canadian Environmental Assessment Act, the Access to Information Act, and the provisions of the Auditor General Act requiring all federal departments and some agencies to undertake sustainable development strategies and implement them. As a result, the Export Development Corporation has supported certain projects that are harming the environment and even human rights in nations in which Canadian companies operate.
For example, the EDC has helped fund mining companies responsible for massive mine tailings spills. Do hon. members remember the Kumtor cyanide mine spill in Krygyzstan, the Omai gold mine in Guyana and the OK Tedi copper mine in Papua, New Guinea.
It is not only very desirable but also urgent that the policy of the Export Development Corporation be guided by sound environmental principles, and this bill aims at ensuring such a goal.
(Motions deemed adopted, bill read the first time and printed)

moved for leave to introduce Bill C-422, an act to amend the Criminal Code to prohibit coercion in medical procedures that offend a person's religion or belief that human life is inviolable.

Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to introduce today this bill to amend the criminal code to prohibit coercion in medical procedures. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that health care providers working in medical facilities of various kinds will never be forced to participate against their wills in abortion procedures or acts of euthanasia. The bill itself does not prohibit abortion or euthanasia but makes it illegal to force another person to particip