As is our practice on Wednesday, we will now sing O Canada, and we will be led by the hon. member for Sackville—Musquodoboit Valley—Eastern Shore.
Mr. Speaker, Canada's economic upturn is indeed a reality.
According to a recent Statistics Canada report, the gross domestic product rose 0.5% in January. This is the 18th month in a row in which there has been an increase, the longest uninterrupted series since 1961, when the GDP began to be measured.
The economic and budgetary choices made by the Liberal government are now bearing fruit. Despite the opposition raised, of course, by the opposition, we have done the job. There are now some truly concrete results.
Everyone, including the opposition parties, is clearly forced to acknowledge that we have come a long way from the distressing situation of 1993.
The results are great, but what is still more important is that they are so full of promise and of hope for everyone in Canada.
Mr. Speaker, thanks to the government's tax them until they drop policy, the EI surplus will hit a whopping $35 billion this year.
Since only about $15 billion is needed as a hedge against a recession, Canada's premier payroll tax will be used to fund the government's pre-election spending spree. Workers and small businesses who struggle to feed this government's insatiable appetite for taxes are outraged that their EI premiums will be used to prop up Liberal electoral fortunes.
Debt reduction and tax relief are needed immediately to stop the brain drain and to stem the exodus of our homegrown industries. But these Liberals are so out of touch with reality that they think they can buy the hearts and votes of Canadians by simply reversing the changes they made to the EI rules.
Canadians want lower taxes and real jobs, not make work projects, grants or EI. Liberals are not going to give that to them, but a Canadian Alliance government would make it a priority.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to congratulate the team at www.francomania.ca, who have just won an award, the Mérites du français dans les technologies de l'information 2000, in the category of Internet site in French and encouragement of the use of French in cyberspace. This is one of the awards given by the Office de la langue française of the Government of Quebec, as part of the festivities for Francofête 2000, the week celebrating French and the Francophonie.
Francomania doubly deserves congratulations, for it also won the Grand Prix Boomerang in December 1999 in the category of Internet site, cultural product. Francomania was created at the time of the 8th Francophone Summit in Moncton and the Year of Canadian Francophonie, by and for young francophones aged 16 to 25.
This recognition of the excellent work done by this team is a victory for the development of the Internet in French, an honour shared by its partners: Radio-Canada, the Department of Canadian Heritage and Industry Canada.
Mr. Speaker, I really enjoyed listening to the musical choir of the Coastal Sound Music Academy on Saturday evening in my constituency.
The students in the choir range from 5 to 19 years of age. Ms. Donna Otto is the musical director. I applaud the efforts of Ms. Otto and the students of the Coastal Sound Music Academy.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday members of the House had the opportunity to give rank and file Indians an effective tool that would enable them to hold their band leaders accountable for their actions.
My colleague, the hon. member for Wild Rose, had created a bill called the first nations ombudsman act that had the potential to empower Canada's most powerless people, those who live on reserves. The legislation was launched after extensive coast to coast consultations with grassroots aboriginals and was supported by them.
Last night the aspirations of those people were crushed when the Liberal, Bloc and New Democratic parties ganged up to defeat the legislation. Members of those parties have forgotten that the primary goal of government is to protect and serve the people.
Grassroots aboriginals will not forget this setback. Their struggle for accountability will go on and members of the alliance will continue to support them.
Mr. Speaker, on February 26, the Navy League of Canada awarded the title of sea cadet of the year 1998 to Irini Margetis, a young woman from the riding of Laval West, who has been a model of exemplary behaviour for the cadets in her charge.
Through her perseverance, self control and leadership, she inspired the young people in her charge and carried on the mandate of the sea cadet movement with young Canadians.
Thanks to the initiative and work of people like Irini Margetis, young people become Canadians better prepared to take an active role in our country.
Mr. Speaker, on March 26, the night of the Oscar awards the people of greater Trois-Rivières swelled with pride.
Bernard Lajoie, the son of one of Trois-Rivières' best known families, gained world recognition for his work when the film The Old Man and the Sea , which he produced with Tatsuo Shimamura of Japan and Alexander Petrov of Russia, was awarded an Oscar as best animated short.
In addition, having won the Jutras award for the best film in its category a month ago, this work, inspired by Ernest Hemingway, is destined to have a brilliant international future. Indeed, it is already playing in four languages, and some twenty countries are expected to soon fall under the spell of this Quebec production.
It is therefore with pride that the people of Trois-Rivières and the Mauricie will welcome Bernard Lajoie himself, who will honour us with his presence at a showing of his film at the Trois-Rivières ciné-campus.
Mr. Speaker, each year I have the pleasure to co-sponsor an essay contest for primary school students in Mississauga South. The topic for this year's contest was “The Place I Would Most Like to Visit”.
Today I am pleased to congratulate Ms. Sandra Falcone, the grand prize winner, who is here this afternoon with her sister Lucy to present her winning essay to the Prime Minister.
Sandra wrote an inspirational essay about what she describes as the magical land of Prince Edward Island. From Anne of Green Gables, to beautiful historic sights and landscapes, to potatoes, Sandra's essay painted a beautiful picture of one of Canada's great treasures.
Thank you, Sandra, for sharing your artistic work with us. Canada is indeed full of treasures from sea to sea to sea.
Mr. Speaker, the sports community across Canada and all of Calgary bids farewell to a legend today.
Mr. Eric Bishop, an institution in Calgary for decades, passed away last week. Today is the day that his legion of friends will gather to reminisce and swap stories about one of sport's most colourful and insightful media personalities.
Eric Bishop was born in Lacombe, Alberta 74 years ago and very early on established himself as a pillar in the sports world.
To quote George Hansen, “One way or another, everyone knew who Eric Bishop was”. He was one of the best broadcasters to ever sit in front of a microphone and one of the most insightful sportswriters to ever sit at a typewriter. We all have our own idea of what heaven will be like. Those who knew Eric Bishop say that for him, there will be green felt covered tables, plenty of good cigars, unopened fresh decks of cards, and rooms full of family, friends and fans.
Our sincere condolences to his loving wife Joan, their seven children and nine grandchildren. He enjoyed life and was a good man who was well loved by all who knew him. He will be missed.
Mr. Speaker, Vimy Ridge, April 9, 1917: Canada's nationhood was forged by the tremendous efforts of its soldiers. More than 66,000 Canadians died in action or of their wounds after the war, more than one in ten of those who had worn uniforms.
There are many memorials to this great battle of the first world war, from a simple stone plaque on the west side of this building near the Speaker's entrance, to the grand Canadian National Vimy Memorial in France which took 11 years and $1.5 million to build. At the base of the memorial in English and French are these words:
To the valour of their countrymen in the Great War and in memory of their sixty thousand dead, this monument is raised by the people of Canada.
Whether grand or modest, in English or in French, one thing remains true: the respect that we must show for those who fought and were wounded. I would ask all members to remember the veterans of the first world war and of this battle on the anniversary of Vimy Ridge.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to express the objection of the NDP to the fact that Canada Post has turned down a request to issue a stamp in honour of the 75th anniversary of the United Church of Canada.
Census figures show that almost three million Canadians identify themselves as United Church members. Refusing a stamp that so many Canadians could relate to shows bad judgment at best on the part of the stamp advisory committee or at worst, more evidence of what one United Church spokesperson has called “the tendency to marginalize the place of an historic Christian communion in the cultural life of the nation”, in this case, the largest and most uniquely Canadian Protestant denomination in Canada.
I urge my former colleague, André Ouellet, chairman of Canada Post, to right this wrong against the United Church and restore some perspective to the issuing of commemorative stamps.
Mr. Speaker, today, I am pleased to introduce in the House the first bill aimed at reducing violence on television.
On December 18, 1992, Virginia Larivière, who was 13 years old at the time, delivered a petition to the government bearing the signatures of 1.3 million people calling for legislation against violence on television. This was a reflection of the desire of Quebecers and Canadians to take the necessary steps to reduce violence on the small screen.
As far back as 1993, the television industry created a voluntary code on violence on television. Among other things, it refused outright to show gratuitous violence. As well, programs containing scenes of violence intended for adult audiences were not to be broadcast before 9 p.m.
Today we are forced to acknowledge that this approach appears not to have resulted in any reduction in the amount of violence being shown on television. That is why action must now be taken.
Mr. Speaker, April is New Homes Month, an annual Canadian Home Builders' Association event. For Canadians it is a good time to buy because our government has created a solid economic foundation through our deficit and tax reduction plans and low inflation rate.
In my riding of Kitchener Centre, building permit construction values are at a $190.8 million high. Over the past four years housing starts have ranged from 769 to 1,057 new units.
For decades CMHC has been helping Canadians become homeowners through its mortgage loan insurance plan which allows purchasers to buy with as little as a 5% down payment and by providing information to help sort through the choices and decisions involved in buying a home.
I encourage Canadians to visit the Canadian Housing and Information Centre and CMHC's website. One in twelve Canadians are directly or indirectly employed in the housing field. No other Canadian industry has such a large impact on our economy.
CMHC is committed to helping improve the quality of life in communities across the country.
Mr. Speaker, the Canadian Cancer Society has been working to eradicate cancer and better the lives of sufferers for more than 60 years. It is the single largest provider of money for cancer research in Canada. It supports the work of doctors and researchers across the country who seek to improve treatment methods and increase survival rates.
In 1999, 130,000 new cases of cancer were diagnosed in Canada and 64,000 Canadians died of the disease.
As we begin April, the Canadian Cancer Society's campaign month, please join me in wishing the society all the best in its fundraising activities, and in congratulating doctors and researchers in Canada for recent and continued progress in cancer research.
Mr. Speaker, the finance minister sat on the board of the Canada Development Corporation during the years that its subsidiary, Connaught Laboratories, was importing tainted blood products from the U.S.
After we raised this issue last spring, the ethics counsellor launched an investigation which took him to the new owners of the CDC in Calgary. Strangely, a finance official went along. Why?
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance referred the problem to the ethics counsellor. A spokesman for the office of the ethics counsellor told journalists that the examination of the matter was conducted without any trace of interference by anyone.
They had to look at all the files and they had to check with every department, which included the Department of Finance. They have done that and there will be a report by the ethics counsellor.
I said before, and I will repeat to the House of Commons, that I know there was absolutely no conflict of interest with the Minister of Finance.
Mr. Speaker, I do not agree.
Any cabinet minister who had even the slightest involvement with the blood products industry in the eighties would have been in conflict sitting at the cabinet table when they were discussing compensation packages for tainted blood victims.
The finance minister sat on the board of a company whose subsidiary was cited by the Krever commission for 10 counts of misconduct.
The minister must be concerned about what is in those minutes and why they are being sat on. Why else would he send a finance official to Calgary along with the ethics counsellor?
Mr. Speaker, the Department of Finance, like any other department, had to be consulted to make sure that all the facts were known.
There were no demands or instructions by the Minister of Finance to send anyone there. The ethics counsellor wanted to have some information from every department, including the Department of Finance. The information was provided to the ethics counsellor by the official of the Department of Finance, as requested by the ethics counsellor himself.
Mr. Speaker, one would think the Department of Health might have gone along for the ride too.
The finance minister had a huge interest in boosting profits at Connaught Laboratories during the year it imported tainted blood from U.S. prisons.
Years later he sat at the cabinet table and denied the victims of that tainted blood scandal the right to compensation from his government.
While they discuss it over there, this is clearly a conflict of interest and he knows it. We can see that. Is that not the real reason he is so concerned about these minutes?
Mr. Speaker, it is always the same thing.
This company was not a company with shares. It was a Canadian government corporation and the Minister of Finance, if he had any shares, had shares for qualification purposes only. There was absolutely no profit to be made by the Minister of Finance in his participation on the board of this corporation.
Mr. Speaker, the ethics investigators went to Calgary to investigate a conflict of interest situation involving the finance minister, Connaught Laboratories and the Canada Development Corporation.
They must have found something interesting because we know from a memo concerning that investigation that they faxed copies of certain CDC minutes to the finance department, but when we asked for this information under an access to information request the finance department denied that it had such minutes.
What is it that the finance minister does not want us to know about this conflict of interest?
Mr. Speaker, I hope that the deal cooked up by the Reform Party yesterday which led to the withdrawal of one of the candidates because of pressure under the table does not distract the hon. member. He should be the last to talk about lessons of ethics today.
I said that it was a crown corporation. The Minister of Finance was a private citizen. He was sitting on the board. There was absolutely no possibility for him to make any profit for himself.
Mr. Speaker, the memo from the office of the ethics counsellor dated July 6 noted that finance had undertaken to provide relevant documents should they come into its possession.
It then said “Finance cannot omit that we did fax a copy of the CDC minutes, and should work on the basis that it is probably known we faxed the minutes to them”.
It is known that finance had these documents which shed light on this conflict of interest situation. Why then on July 8, in response to our access to information request, did finance deny having any—
The Right Hon. Prime Minister.
Mr. Speaker, all of the documentation that was needed has been given to the ethics counsellor, and I said that the report would be made public.
I understand that members opposite love dirt. They like to throw dirt. No wonder they decided that their name was to be Canadian C-R-A-P.
Mr. Speaker, not satisfied with interfering in the provinces' jurisdiction over health, the Minister of Health has decided that education will be his next target, and wants to have a say in the training of nurses.
When will the minister understand that what the provinces want him to do is restore transfer payments to their 1994 level?
Mr. Speaker, the Government of Canada recognizes that Canada's health care system is facing challenges.
Last week, I met with my provincial counterparts to discuss a joint approach to these important challenges. It is in this spirit that we must continue to raise questions and propose solutions together, in order to have a health care system that can meet the needs of Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, this minister has no expertise in health administration. It is not the federal government that is looking after hospitals or direct services to the community. They have quite a nerve telling us what to do. The only hospitals run by the federal government are army hospitals, and they are in a mess.
The question is a very simple one. The federal government cut transfer payments to Quebec from 29% to 13%. When is it going to restore the money it cut the provinces?
Mr. Speaker, I would like to repeat in French what I have said on more than one occasion in English: in 1993-94, provincial transfer payments were $28.9 billion; in 2000-01, they will be $30.8 billion.
No, no.
That is false.
In addition, Quebec qualifies for equalization payments. These were $8.6 billion—
Oh, oh.
—and in 2000-01, they will be $9.5 billion.
Oh, oh.
Order, please. I would ask hon. members to listen to the answer.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Minister of Health made a statement confirming once again Ottawa's desire to invade provincial jurisdictions.
What kind of claim is the minister making to justify his meddling in the field of training? What claim is he making?
Mr. Speaker, the delivery of health care services is a provincial matter. But the health care system itself is a national concern.
Oh, oh.
The Government of Canada has a role to play in this area. We intend to honour our responsibilities.
Oh, oh.
What I suggested to my counterparts last week and will do so in the future is that all governments, including the Government of Canada, work together to develop a co-ordinated approach to all these problems.
Mr. Speaker, Quebec is not fooled by the intentions of the Liberal government in Ottawa.
Can the offensive of the federal government not be explained by the fact that it is using money accumulated on the backs of the provinces through its cuts in order to unfairly invade their jurisdictions?
Mr. Speaker, we are not talking here about meddling in areas of provincial jurisdiction. The Government of Canada has an important role to play in this area and we intend to play it.
Mr. Speaker, pharmaceuticals represent the fastest growing cost in health care—$13 billion last year, which is more than we spent on doctors.
The National Forum on Health recommended that drugs be included as part of our health care system, publicly funded.
Given the government's promise to bring in a plan for pharmacare, where is the plan?
Mr. Speaker, in the election of 1997 we made an undertaking which we are respecting. In the red book that year, during the election campaign, we undertook in this mandate to develop a plan and a timetable for pharmacare nationally.
That is exactly what we are doing. In fact, last year we convened a national conference on the question of pharmaceutical coverage, brought all the stakeholders together, amassed all the relevant information, and began building the framework toward a plan. We are working toward that now and by the end of this mandate we will have achieved our objective.
Mr. Speaker, the government's talk about a pharmaceutical or pharmacare plan has been absolutely vacant. It has been virtually silent. The government's main strategy for health care seems to be to delay.
Why did the minister not bring forward a plan for pharmacare at the Markham meeting? If there is a plan, where is it? What is the government waiting for?
Mr. Speaker, as I said, our undertaking was to develop a plan and a timetable by the end of this mandate, and we will do that.
With respect to Markham, try as I might to introduce the subject of substantive health policy renewal, the minister of health for Ontario, for example, refused to discuss it. Being on a tight script provided by Premier Harris, she insisted on speaking only about dollars.
Perhaps the NDP thinks the problems can be solved by dollars alone. We on this side of the House know it will take good planning too, and that is what we want to achieve.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport.
The ship brokerage community operates internationally but is relatively small in numbers. Those in the community tend to know each other. However, nobody seems to know who brokered the deal for the new gulf ferry for Marine Atlantic, and Marine Atlantic will not give out that information.
Will the Minister of Transport tell us why Marine Atlantic is so determined to keep this information hidden?
Mr. Speaker, Marine Atlantic is determined to negotiate the best deal possible for the Government of Canada to get a new ferry fast on the gulf service.
That is the priority and we have every confidence in the chairman, Captain Sid Hynes, of the Marine Atlantic board, who knows the shipping industry, to get the best deal so that we can get the ferry up and running.
It seems to me that the Conservative Party is more intent on making political points than getting passengers served this summer on the gulf.
By George, I smell a rat here, Mr. Speaker.
We have information that if the identity of the broker on this transaction were known there would be an immediate perception of a conflict of interest. Will the minister tell us who the broker is? Will he assure us that there is no conflict of interest, either on the part of a person or persons in Marine Atlantic, or on the part of any member of the government?
Mr. Speaker, we are absolutely satisfied that all of the normal procedures have been followed.
The hon. member says that he can smell a rat. Perhaps he is talking about rats leaving a sinking ship, the caucus members from the Tory party abandoning that party.
Mr. Speaker, in May 1999 we submitted an access to information request asking for minutes from CDC that would show if the minister were involved in the tainted blood scandal.
A memo on July 6 showed that these minutes had been faxed from the ethics counsellor to the Department of Finance. Let me quote from that memo. It says:
We did fax a copy of the CDC minutes we received from Nova Corporation. She should work on the basis that it is publicly known we faxed the minutes to them.
In other words, the ethics counsellor warned the finance department that it had these potentially explosive documents in its possession. Why did the minister not release these documents to the opposition and to the public?
Mr. Speaker, the CDC was a government owned corporation. It was a corporation as well that was involved with the Department of Finance, the Department of Industry and a number of government departments throughout the eighties, long before this government took office.
Because the company involved was a subsidiary of a subsidiary of the CDC, companies which had been sold, in order to find those minutes an exhaustive investigation was required, which I believe is still ongoing but I believe now very close to completion.
The Department of Finance was one of the departments that was involved but it was all handled by public servants.
Mr. Speaker, the rest of the relationship between the finance minister and these corporations will be explored later on. Right now what we are talking about is the finance minister's own department.
On July 8, two days after the ethics counsellor had warned the finance department that it had those documents in its possession, the very same finance department wrote back to us and said the following:
I must inform you that after a thorough search no records were found to respond to either of your requests.
Why did the finance department deny that it was in possession of these crucial documents when these documents were sitting on the finance department's desk?
Mr. Speaker, for obvious reasons as the ethics counsellor continued his investigation into this matter I was not informed and was not kept up to date.
Therefore, I really cannot answer the question except to say to the hon. member the documentation that was largely existing in the finance department was not of a kind that would convey any such information. That is why the investigation had to go beyond the finance department into a whole series of other government departments and agencies.
Mr. Speaker, we have asked a considerable number of questions about Placeteco. The President of Treasury Board even gave some thought to placing Human Resources Development Canada under trusteeship. However, she finally decided, no doubt so as to spare her colleague at HRDC further embarrassment, just to send over one of her employees to provide some monitoring of the situation.
Can the President of Treasury Board tell us whether that person has looked into the Placeteco case and made a report to her on it?
Mr. Speaker, I would point out to begin with, if I may, that the hon. member's introductory remarks are incorrect.
Treasury Board has available to it a series of tools for controlling this government's expenditures, including providing opinions and advice to departments and providing them with experts. It can even go so far as to withdraw delegation of authority.
Before selecting the appropriate tool, however, we assess not only the scope and origin of the problem but also, and above all, the department's ability to deal with it. The Department of Human Resources Development was fully capable of dealing with the present problem.
Mr. Speaker, even the President of Treasury Board is refusing to answer our questions on Placeteco.
At any rate, as the Minister of Indian Affairs suggested yesterday in connection with another matter, I have written to the solicitor general asking for an investigation into the Placeteco matter. Can the solicitor general give me the assurance that he will follow up on my letter and take the appropriate steps to launch an investigation into Placeteco in order to finally bring the facts out in the open?
Mr. Speaker, what I can do is to indicate to my hon. colleague that I will read the letter and respond to him.
Mr. Speaker, the issue of the finance minister having found himself in a potential conflict of interest due to his past directorship with the Canada Development Corporation is hardly new.
On May 25, 1999, when questioned in the House he replied, and I quote from Hansard :
I would be delighted to have whatever papers could be made available to be made available.
We now know that his department had copies of CDC minutes by July 8 yet replied to our request that it did not. Why did the Minister of Finance not keep his word to the House?
Mr. Speaker, it is my understanding, and I would ask the hon. member to verify this with the ethics counsellor, that the ethics counsellor will make all documentation available when he makes his report.
Mr. Speaker, we are talking about documentation sent by the minister's own department. Reading once again from Hansard , May 25, 1999, at page 15255, the Minister of Finance stated:
I have asked my officials to look at our papers but at the present time we have found nothing.
We know the Department of Finance had a faxed copy of the CDC minutes by July 6 yet on July 8 advised that it did not possess these documents.
Six weeks after the finance minister said they had found nothing, they still said they had found nothing. Did they conveniently lose the documents, or did they fail to obey the finance minister's instructions?
Mr. Speaker, it is absolutely ludicrous what they are doing. Here is a problem dating from years before we formed the government, when the Minister of Finance was serving on a board where he had no shares. It is related to a subsidiary of a subsidiary. He himself asked me to ask the ethics counsellor to look into it and he is doing that at this time.
They want to stir up something based on nothing. Let us wait for the report. The report will be made public. I have discussed this with the Minister of Finance and he has absolutely no conflict of interest.
Mr. Speaker, there is concern that the fishers in Quebec are paying for the agreements the federal government is about to sign with the first nations of the maritimes, and the minister's responses in the House have provided no reassurance.
Could the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans reassure the fishers in the Gaspé by confirming for them unequivocally that the licenses to be bought back from Quebec fishers will be given to native fishers in Quebec and not in other provinces?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member has all his facts totally wrong. He should do his research and then he would get to the facts.
It is very interesting that we have heard in the House from opposition members about the social problems with our aboriginal communities on the reserves, but when it comes to solutions they do not want to be a part of the solution. They want someone else to be part of the solution.
Do they really care about aboriginal people? Are they really interested in helping them? From the questions I hear, I do not think so.
Mr. Speaker, once again the remarks of the minister provide no assurance, but I would first have him understand that he must consider the human factor in the impact of his decisions.
My question is very simple question: will he commit to ensuring that Quebec fishing quotas remain with Quebec residents and protect the fish plant jobs in Quebec?
Mr. Speaker, that is the parochial view of this member and his party. They want to make sure that no one else can benefit.
To ease the hon. member's concerns, I can assure him that the quota acquired in Quebec will go to Quebec bands. Is he against that? If he is, he should stand and tell us.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance has denied that CDC was connected directly to Connaught. In fact, on February 5, 1985, when the Minister of Finance was on the board of directors of CDC, CDC cut a $4 million cheque for a blood fractionation plant for Connaught Labs.
When the board of directors authorizes a $4 million cheque it is pretty hard to believe that someone on the board would not know what it was for. How can the minister deny that he did not know what Connaught Labs was doing with the $4 million?
Mr. Speaker, Connaught was a subsidiary of a subsidiary of the CDC. Also there were joint ventures involved.
If the hon. member had sat on boards he would understand that it is quite conceivable that kind of thing might or might not have come about. The fact is that the whole matter has been referred to the ethics counsellor who has conducted a thorough investigation. We are all looking forward to his report.
Mr. Speaker, it is close to a year ago that the ethics counsellor was doing this report. How long do we have to wait for a report and how incriminating is that report?
It is hard to believe that someone on the board of directors of a business would authorize a $4 million cheque and not know what it was for. I do not care what kind of business it is.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance and I have been very clear that there will be a report. Now they are complaining because the ethics counsellor is doing a thorough job, analyzing everything and going into all the companies.
The Minister of Finance could not have had any interest in that company because it was a crown corporation. He had perhaps one or two shares or a few shares to qualify to be a director, but all the shares belonged to all the citizens of Canada at that time. He obviously did not have a personal conflict of interest.
Mr. Speaker, Quebec has developed a parental leave policy that is better suited to the new realities of the labour market that the federal government's policy.
The minister sees herself as being very generous with her doubled parental leave, but does she not realize that by stubbornly refusing to reduce the eligibility threshold to 300 hours, increase coverage to 70%, eliminate the waiting period and include self-employed women, she will continue to impoverish thousands of women by denying them access to parental leave?
Mr. Speaker, let us look at what we have done. First and foremost, we have doubled the parental benefit to a year. Parents can be home for a year.
We have reduced the number of hours required to get special benefits from 700 hours to 600 hours. We have tripled the amount of time that adoptive parents will be home with their children. We have taken away the second waiting period required. Then perhaps the dad can be home with the child.
We are making it very clear to Canadians that we understand the challenges between workplace and family. We are doing something about it for all Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister for International Trade.
The United States recently published a document entitled “Foreign Trade Barriers” listing obstacles to international trade for American companies. Does the minister intend to provide a similar list for Canada and will he release details on our companies' access to international markets?
Mr. Speaker, I thank the member for Beauce for his interest in this issue.
This morning, I released the government's annual report on Canada's priorities for 2000 to improve access to foreign markets. Our government wants to improve the performance of our exports and to eliminate the barriers to trade for Canadian enterprises.
Canadians can be very proud. In 1999, our exports set a record high of $410 billion.
Mr. Speaker, on the issue of a conflict of interest for the finance minister relating to tainted blood, the minister sat on the board of a company that financed Connaught Labs. Blood from that lab was tainted. Should the minister not have excused himself from decisions relating to tainted blood since there is an obvious conflict of interest here?
Mr. Speaker, I have only to repeat exactly what the commissioner on ethics is looking into. He will report to the House. He is doing a thorough job. I have discussed that with the Minister of Finance. He himself has asked me to refer it there. I am completely convinced that there was absolutely never any conflict of interest.
Mr. Speaker, we have already got the documents that implicate this finance minister in this issue.
Might I ask again, is this not the reason that this finance minister would not support compensation for victims of hepatitis C—
Order, please. The right hon. Prime Minister.
Mr. Speaker, again they use a word like “implicate”. They try to tarnish reputations, destroy people. We saw how they dealt with the ethics of their party yesterday when one of the two candidates tried to buy off the other one. They get up today and talk about ethics.
More, more.
Shame, shame.
Order, please. The hon. member for Regina—Qu'Appelle.
Mr. Speaker, my question is also for the Minister of Finance. It concerns the volatility in the current stock markets in this country.
A larger than ever number of Canadians are borrowing money in order to speculate on the stock markets and we have also seen an explosion in unregulated derivatives which could threaten the stability of our financial system.
In view of the excessive exposure of our system to speculation, can the minister assure the House that the Canadian financial system is secure and that the public will not pay for speculation through a rise in interest rates which will affect every single Canadian in this country?
Mr. Speaker, yes, I can assure the hon. member that our financial situation is sound. In fact, it is my understanding that quite some time ago financial institutions began to cut down on margin loans. Obviously there are individual investors who may well find themselves in a difficult situation, but I can assure the hon. member that the system, the structure and the financial institutions are sound.
Mr. Speaker, the minister did not make any reference to interest rates. I think we all know now that the excesses in the stock market which are largely in the high tech sector are being caused in the main by the banks, the finance companies and the mortgage companies extending too much credit to people who just want to speculate in the market.
The banks have created much of the problem and the higher interest rates that might come would of course benefit the banks that helped create the problem in the first place.
Would the minister consider asking the Bank of Canada to impose a special reserve requirement on bank loans that are taken out for the sole purpose of speculation in the market?
Mr. Speaker, that implies that an exact delineation of the nature of those loans for that purpose could be made, which might be more difficult than one would think. The hon. member knows that I am not in a position to comment on interest rates, that finance ministers do not do that.
If we look at the reasons for which interest rates rise or fall, this would have to be a relatively minor part of any consideration that a central bank would take into account.
Mr. Speaker, last week representatives from the species at risk working group graded the Progressive Conservative position paper with an A, with the government paper receiving a mere D. This is essentially because the government's paper would make the designation of species at risk discretionary and not based on science.
Why is it that a consortium of environmentalists, wild life biologists, mining representatives, woodlot owners, pulp and paper and agricultural groups can all agree that the listing of a species should be based on science and not on political choice and this government believes cabinet is best fit to make the call?
Mr. Speaker, my colleagues have suggested that was the voice of an endangered species.
This government fully intends to bring in a holistic approach to protecting our species at risk in Canada. We have a solid approach and that member and all members of the House will know about that plan very shortly.
Mr. Speaker, the beginning of our recovery plan will be our policy conference in Quebec and this party is anything but a species at risk.
The protection of a species at risk is a value that all Canadians—
Order, please. The hon. member for Fundy Royal may begin his question.
Mr. Speaker, the protection of a species at risk is a value that all Canadians share. It should be the responsibility of all Canadians and not just a few. That is why the Progressive Conservative Party, industry and environmentalists all agree that social and economic considerations should be taken into account when designing the recovery plan for a species and not whether a species is at risk or not.
Why is it that this coalition of stakeholders agrees on a common front and this government believes that cabinet should determine whether a species is at risk or not?
Mr. Speaker, perhaps the member opposite believes he is clairvoyant, but the bill has not been tabled so I do not know how he is managing to presuppose the outcome of what the government is planning to do.
It will be individuals and it will be stewardship right across the country that make the difference—people taking voluntary action. The last budget from the finance minister will encourage that process.
The bill will be tabled in a short time. I think he should wait and actually see what is being proposed.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Canadian Heritage. April 9 is the 83rd anniversary of the Battle of Vimy Ridge. Will the minister inform the House of her efforts to recognize this important date in Canadian history?
Mr. Speaker, the member and all Canadians know that at Vimy almost 4,000 boys were lost to their families, their friends and their communities.
But from this loss was born a spirit of solidarity, of helping others, and of belonging to a country called Canada.
In support of the private member's bill of my colleagues, the members for Sault Ste. Marie and Algoma—Manitoulin, I am announcing today that this Sunday, April 9, 2000 the flag on parliament's Peace Tower will fly at half mast in honour of the sacrifice made at Vimy Ridge, a corner of France that is forever Canadian.
Hear, hear.
Mr. Speaker, I believe there will be many hepatitis C victims who are very interested in the finance minister's answers on this issue. The bottom line here is this: The finance minister promised the House that he will release all CDC minutes, but when the official opposition asked for them under the Access to Information Act, the finance department withheld these documents.
Why did the minister not keep his own promise?
Mr. Speaker, when the ethics counsellor submits his report, we will make all documentation available. All pertinent documentation will be submitted.
Mr. Speaker, when American plutonium was transported to Chalk River in Ontario, it made part of the journey by air.
This method of transportation is strictly prohibited in the United States for reasons of safety. In addition, the Minister of Natural Resources has broken Canadian law because he did not submit this transportation plan to the public.
How can the public trust the Minister of Natural Resources when he breaks his own law and, worse yet, gives the go-ahead for a form of transportation prohibited in the United States for safety reasons?
Mr. Speaker, on this side of the border we operate under Canadian law, not American law.
During the public consultation process regarding MOX, we received several public representations to consider air transportation. We took those representations seriously.
During all of our consideration of this matter, our questions were directed to whether this can this be done safely and legally in accordance with the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, the Canadian Transportation of Goods Act and the Canadian Atomic Energy Control Act as well as the International Civil Aviation Organization and the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The answers to those questions—
The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre.
Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of Health.
The government recently announced a blue ribbon scientific panel to ostensibly address growing consumer concerns about the safety of food biotechnology. Now we learn the government is spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to send every household in Canada a 24 page full colour leaflet asserting the safety of genetically engineered foods.
Why has the government prejudged the outcome of its own review by spending money on this kind of propaganda? Is the panel a farce or is the government truly listening to the concerns of Canadians?
Mr. Speaker, the government is very proud of the quality and safety of Canadian food. Together with my colleague, the Minister of Agriculture and Agri-Food, we have sent factual information to Canadian households as to why they should be satisfied with the safety and quality standards of our food.
At the same time, because biotechnology continues to push back the frontiers of science, we have appointed a blue ribbon panel, including the Nobel Laureate, Dr. Michael Smith of British Columbia, to work with us in ensuring that in the future we will have the science capacity necessary to keep on the cutting edge of science and safety.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of National Defence is just a few hours away from making another announcement with the diesel division of General Motors, despite the fact that the minister has not addressed the very serious equipment concerns raised by Colonel Jones, the Canadian commander in Bosnia, who said that the existing Coyote reconnaissance vehicles were clearly never brought up to Canadian standards.
What has the minister done personally to ensure that the new equipment that he will purchase today will meet Canadian standards in the field?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member has it wrong. What we have here is state of the art equipment. What she is talking about is the fact that when the state of the art equipment was sent over, it was not properly prepared in terms of its mission in Kosovo in the initial instance.
The memo that the hon. member notes was sent last fall. In fact, a course of action was taken very quickly.
We do have the best possible equipment. In fact, the American army wants to borrow some of it because it thinks it is the best in the world.
Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Minister of International Co-operation.
Many people are starving to death in Ethiopia because of drought and extreme weather conditions. Crop failures, loss of livestock and grazing land are contributing to the misery facing these innocent victims.
Can the minister tell the House what efforts have been made by the Canadian government to provide assistance to the victims of this famine in Ethiopia?
Mr. Speaker, Canada is very concerned about the escalating famine in Ethiopia. In response to this crisis, I am announcing that Canada will provide an additional $6.25 million for emergency food in Ethiopia. The funds will be used to purchase, transport and distribute emergency supplies. Monitors will be hired to ensure the aid reaches the most needy. We will be working with the World Food Programme.
This is an ongoing commitment we have in Ethiopia. Over the last three years we have spent $45 million in the region. We will continue to monitor the situation and support it.
I would like to draw the attention of hon. members to the presence in the gallery of His Excellency Janis Straume, Chairman of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia, and his delegation.
Hear, hear.
I have to deal with an issue in the House. I am directly addressing my colleague, the hon. member for Rimouski—Mitis.
On Friday, the hon. member used in this House the words “Stop lying”, as reported in the Hansard .
At that point, I asked her to withdraw these words, but she refused. The hon. member has had a few days to, I hope, reconsider her position. I am asking her again today in this House to please withdraw these words.
Mr. Speaker, I am really sorry but I cannot comply with your request. This is the 21st century and we are entitled to the truth in this place—
Mrs. Tremblay, I must name you for disregarding the authority of the Chair.
Pursuant to the powers vested in me under Standing Order 11, I order you to withdraw from the House for the remainder of today's sitting.
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to five petitions.
Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present the 24th report of the Standing Committee on Procedure and House Affairs regarding the associate membership on the Standing Committee on Natural Resources and Government Operations. If the House gives its consent, I intend to move concurrence in the 24th report later this day.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of the Canada-Taiwan Parliamentary Friendship Group, I am pleased to present, in both official languages, the report of the January 2000 parliamentary delegation to Taiwan.
As the Chair of the delegation, I am pleased to report on this very successful all party delegation that concentrated on bilateral agricultural issues.
Specifically, I had an audience with President Lee and other officials and had discussions on Taiwan's anticipated ascent into the WTO. The delegation drew attention to the importance of the agriculture sector to an overall bilateral relationship.
The delegation requested that there be a renewal of the quotas for meat products which came to an end in December 1999. It visited research and production facilities.
A copy of the report has been circulated to all parliamentarians. I thank members of the delegation for their constructive participation.

moved for leave to introduce Bill C-469, an act to develop and provide for the publication of measures to inform Canadians about the health and well-being of people, communities and ecosystems in Canada.

Mr. Speaker, I am pleased today to table my private member's bill entitled the Canada well-being measurement act. This bill provides the legislative framework for the development and annual publication of a set of sustainable indicators in relation to our economy, our society and our environment.
The Canada well-being measurement act would provide for a far more accurate and comprehensive measure of progress than we currently possess, and aid us greatly as we reconcile public policy with the impacts our actions are having on the well-being of all Canadians.
I thank and recognize the participation of Mike Nickerson in this project and my seconder, the hon. member for Notre-Dame-de-Grâce—Lachine.
(Motions deemed adopted, bill read the first time and printed)

moved for leave to introduce Bil