As is our practice on Wednesday we will now sing O Canada, and we will be led by the hon. member for Crowfoot.
Mr. Speaker, in a democracy we have the right to protest but we must obey and respect the law.
Those people who protested peacefully at the summit of the Americas in Quebec City were exercising their democratic right. However, those people who thought protesting meant throwing bottles, bricks, pucks and iron were nothing more than hooligans and anarchists.
I want to highly commend our police services, especially the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the provincial police and the local municipal regional police forces for an outstanding show of restraint, discipline and professionalism.
Just for a moment, imagine how police in most countries in the world would have acted if faced with those violent protesters, coupled with the heavy burden and task of protecting 34 heads of government. We can only imagine.
Our police services are second to none in the world. They deserve the gratitude and thanks of a very grateful nation.
Mr. Speaker, recently the Dutch parliament passed a law that formally allows a medical doctor to euthanize a patient. This action will set back palliative care, which seeks to make the end of life as comfortable as possible and breaks the traditional role of doctor as helper.
My first duty as a surgeon was to do no harm. The Hippocratic oath forbids any physician from practising euthanasia. Having practised medicine for 25 years, I personally dealt with terminal patients over and over again. By creative use of drugs, companionship and kindness, we always found a way to comfort those patients.
Canada needs to concentrate its resources on palliation for terminal patients. Our patients deserve the best care, not the most expedient.
Mr. Speaker, we were saddened last Thursday to learn of the death of Roger Garceau. He had been battling lung cancer for some months.
This well known actor made an impression on us with his roles in several TV serials, including Symphorien and
Les forges de Saint-Maurice . He also appeared in more than 150 theatre roles.
His talent, enthusiasm and generosity will be greatly missed by Canadians. His significant contribution to our cultural history will be a lasting legacy.
On behalf of my colleagues and myself, I want to offer our sincere condolences to Mr. Garceau's family and friends at this sorrowful time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in the House today to recognize that Thursday, April 26 will mark the 15th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster.
Early that morning an explosion occurred in Reactor 4 of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. The release of radiation was almost a million times greater than the release at Three Mile Island. As a result of this accident, 125,000 people have died, 70,000 people have become disabled and tens of thousands of hectares of once fertile land are now barren.
In compliance with the memorandum of understanding that was signed in Ottawa in 1995, the Chernobyl facility was closed on December 15, 2000. In return, the signing countries provided much needed financial and technical support to the government of Ukraine. Canada's contribution of $50 million was used to fund the shelter implementation plan.
I know that the Canadian government will continue to support the recovery of the Chernobyl area and I ask that hon. members and all Canadians take a moment to remember all those affected by this disaster.
Mr. Speaker, in July 1609 Samuel de Champlain discovered the large lake that now bears his name, Lake Champlain. I am proud that this discovery of one of our great explorers is located in my riding of Brome—Missisquoi.
Samuel de Champlain was a true builder, a man who did everything possible to make his dreams a reality
In our ridings, and I am thinking of my own riding of Brome—Missisquoi in particular, we are surrounded by men and women who work just as hard for the development and growth of rural communities.
For instance, two municipalities in Brome-Missisquoi, Stanbridge East near Lake Champlain and Lac Brome, have recently been honoured in the community beautification competition “Fleurir le Québec”. They had more than 260 competitors in this prestigious competition.
I congratulate all those involved directly or indirectly in these community beautification projects. In their own way they too are builders who bring a new face to our rural areas with their creativity and dynamism.
Mr. Speaker, park wardens in our national parks have a proud tradition of service. The decision by Parks Canada to replace wardens with RCMP officers at double the cost of fully training and equipping a park warden does not resolve the problem of unsafe working conditions. Issuing shotguns to patrolling wardens only heightens the potential for violence when a non-confrontational approach is needed.
The problem is that you cannot look at the activity to determine the danger. Risk is determined by a subject's behaviour. Therefore, being told to back away by Parks Canada management is not appropriate.
The pending decision to locate a detachment of RCMP officers in every national park in Canada is costly and unnecessary and, in the case of Ontario and Quebec, an unacceptable intrusion into provincial jurisdiction.
The Minister of Canadian Heritage should do the right thing and allow park wardens the right to bear sidearms.
Mr. Speaker, today Canadians welcome His Royal Highness, the Prince of Wales, to Canada. His Royal Highness is an inspiration to many, a caring and loving father, a champion for social justice and a gracious humanitarian.
He is respected for his strong conviction that we all share a duty to care for the natural world and to use natural resources in a way which can be sustained for future generations.
On behalf of my constituents and all Canadians, I wish to extend a warm and heartfelt welcome to the Prince of Wales.
Mr. Speaker, this week Pearl Dugas will be one of the 60 persons honoured in Ottawa as part of the International Year of the Volunteer.
Ms. Dugas has been a social worker for 10 years and works as a volunteer administrator for the Société d'aide au développement des collectivités de Ville de la Baie, where she works developing businesses in rural communities.
She also served as the president of the Société de développement de Saint-Félix-d'Otis for four years and helped organize rural economic summits.
I have no doubt that the contribution of volunteers is essential to the development of modern Quebec. In their exceptional work they devote themselves body and soul to improving their community.
On behalf of the regional caucus of the Bloc Quebecois in Saguenay—Lac-Saint-Jean—Côte-Nord I pay tribute to the generosity and devotion of Pearl Dugas.
We offer our hearty congratulations.
Mr. Speaker, every year the return of the lovely days of April brings a very special day, Secretaries Day.
Today I want to tell the House why this day is set aside in their honour in recognition of the important work they do.
In all sectors, private and public, the people in these positions are devoted. The work they do in their job obviously helps expand our job market.
Over the years the image of the secretary has changed somewhat. Room has been made for men in this job as well. Regardless of the gender of the person in the job, on this day, I say for all to hear “Behind every manager is a great person known as a secretary”.
I pay tribute to the excellence of your work and wish you a happy Secretaries Day.
Mr. Speaker, the countdown begins today. In 100 days from now over 2,000 athletes from over 200 countries will meet on a field of contest unequalled on earth, an event surpassed in size and grandeur only by the summer Olympics and soccer's World Cup.
The 2001 World Championships in Athletics are coming to Edmonton, the city of champions.
Mr. Speaker, you might ask exactly who is invited. Why, you are, Mr. Speaker, with your family and friends, as are my colleagues from all parties and of course all Canadians, along with visitors from around the globe.
It is 100 days and counting until the world arrives in Edmonton. I invite everyone to Edmonton for the opening ceremonies on Friday, August 3 and I invite everyone to join in the fun.
Mr. Speaker, the 1998 ice storm paralyzed a number of communities in Ontario and exacted an enormous economic cost.
The Government of Canada has worked hard to assist communities and individuals to recover from this disaster.
Today the hon. Minister of National Defence reinforced the Government of Canada's commitment by announcing a third payment of $50 million to the government of Ontario through the disaster financial assistance arrangement program.
This payment brings the total financial assistance provided by the federal government to the province of Ontario to $105 million.
The payment demonstrates our government's commitment to ensuring the well-being of all Canadians and our guarantee that we will provide assistance for each step on the long road to recovery.
Mr. Speaker, as all of us know, the firefighters are here for their annual lobby on Parliament Hill.
I urge the government to act on their request, particularly with respect to the increased pension accrual rate and with respect to the death benefit for survivors of firefighters who are killed or permanently injured on the job.
They have come here year after year to be told by Liberal backbenchers that they are in support of what the firefighters are requesting. They are told that by other members.
This is a test for us as parliament. If a majority of us support what the firefighters are requesting, then let the government act on what they are requesting. Let us see some progress for these people who come here year after year requesting these changes.
Mr. Speaker, the Bloc Quebecois would like to congratulate the premier of Quebec, Bernard Landry, for his remarkable attitude in a difficult context, considering that the Quebec national government was prevented by the Government of Canada from formally taking part in the summit of the Americas held in our national capital.
Showing a composure that is the trademark of true heads of state, the premier of Quebec nevertheless seized this opportunity to hold bilateral meetings with other heads of state from the Americas, thus strengthening the harmony that governs our relations with our neighbours in the south.
Mr. Landry also used the forums at his disposal to brilliantly explain why Quebec sovereignty was necessary and to discuss the FTAA in a context where trade between nations of the Americas and of the whole world is increasingly based on the strong and serene affirmation of national identity and on the respect of democratic values.
Bloc Quebecois members are very proud of their premier.
Mr. Speaker, the recent witness testimony and documentary evidence, both national and international, demonstrates that the violations of human rights in China continue unabated, particularly with regard to violations of the rights of the Falun Gong.
These include, first, the criminalization of Falun Gong itself for nothing other than espousing the values of truth, compassion and tolerance, thereby violating their fundamental rights to freedom of conscience and beliefs, freedom of assembly and association, and freedom of expression and information.
Second, the arrest, detention, torture and imprisonment of Falun Gong practitioners for nothing other than exercising their rights as guaranteed under Chinese and international law.
Third, the abuse of psychiatry for political purposes on a scale unseen since the dark days of the Soviet Gulag.
Accordingly, I would like to join my voice with parliamentarians in this country and around the world who have called upon China to rescind the criminal ban on the Falun Gong, release political prisoners, such as ShenLi Lin, husband of Canadian citizen Jinyu Li, and cease and desist from the abuse of psychiatry for political purposes.
Mr. Speaker, from April 23 to 29 many people will be wearing a small green ribbon. This symbol represents Canada's National Organ and Tissue Donation Awareness Week.
It is vital to the success of our organ and tissue donation program that Canadians be made increasingly aware of the importance of their participation.
More than 3,700 Canadians are waiting for organ transplants, kidneys, hearts, lungs, livers, and thousands of others are in need of replacement core tissues, such as corneas, heart valves, bone grafts and skin. The success rate of such surgeries is upward to 90%.
I urge all Canadians to give serious thought to organ and tissue donation, complete a donors card and make sure their families are aware of their wishes.
Mr. Speaker,—
Hear, hear.
Order, please. I know there is a lot of enthusiasm in the House today but we do want to hear the hon. Leader of the Opposition's question.
Mr. Speaker, I am deeply honoured by the support of my colleagues and surprised at the support from the Liberals but I do appreciate it.
It was only yesterday that we learned that one of the biggest high tech employers in Canada has laid off another 2,500 workers. Every day we get reports that growth in the economy is slowing down. The dollar is in difficulty. There is neglect by government. Consumer confidence is down. Even the auditor general some time ago asked the question: Who is minding the store?
What specific steps are being taken to restore the confidence of Canadians in the economy?
Mr. Speaker, first, let me simply say to the Leader of the Opposition that he should not be a bit surprised by the great support that the government has for his position and his remaining in that position.
In terms of who is minding the store, when the store was being minded by somebody else here in the House, yesterday the Prime Minister gave the following quote, which answers the hon. member's question. This is a quote from the IMF. It says “The strong policy framework in place has positioned the real and financial economy to cope with any new major economic shock”. Then, the IMF goes on to say “The Canadian authorities are to be highly commended by their policy accomplishments”.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance love to talk about the IMF. I am sure that pleases certain bankers and others.
However, I wonder if the minister is aware what Canadians said recently in the Minister of Finance's own polling conducted by the folks at Earnscliffe. The poll shows that only a third of Canadians feel that they are better off now than they were four years ago.
Never mind what the bankers are saying. They are delighted with the interest payments that keep coming from a government that neglects debt, but only a third of Canadians think they are better off than they were four years ago.
What is the government doing in specific steps to restore consumer and investor confidence?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member perhaps ought to go back to his numbers. Real disposable income in Canada is up. In fact real disposable income per family is now at a record level in Canada.
The hon. member talks about interest rates. Interest rates are now down substantially. In fact, as a result of the interest rate reductions now, a typical family with a mortgage has $750 more in their pocket now than they would have had three to four months ago.
Despite the fact that there is global volatility, problems in Japan and in the United States, if we take a look at the Canadian economy, while signals are mixed, we—
The hon. Leader of the Opposition.
Mr. Speaker, I prefer to use the numbers of the Minister of Finance. His own polling shows that only a third of Canadians feel they are better off now than they were four years ago.
I wonder whether the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister could tell us, in terms of the accountability that comes from having to table a budget, how many of the presidents from the Americas who were present in Quebec did the Prime Minister or the finance minister advise that we do not need to have a full and accountable budget month after month, maybe up to 24 months? How many presidents did they advise to say that was good policy?
Mr. Speaker, at the meeting of the finance ministers of the western hemisphere, two weeks prior to the Quebec summit, we did discuss this. The vast majority of the finance ministers said that it was a remarkable turnaround the Canadian economy had seen with the elimination of the deficit, the largest paydown of debt in Canadian history and the largest reduction of taxes in Canadian history.
In fact, most of the finance ministers would have agreed with the conference board today which said that the first quarter of 2001 was one of those rare moments in history when a huge dose of fiscal stimulus was actually occurring at exactly the time that it was needed.
Mr. Speaker, the finance minister talks about a huge paydown in debt. He has paid down less than half of the amount of debt that he added to the national debt.
Today we learned from Statistics Canada that the leading economic indicator has dropped for the fourth straight month. We also know that retail sales have slipped. Manufacturing shipments are down by 19% over the past four months.
How can he continue to talk about a rosy scenario when all the economic indicators are on a downslide?
Mr. Speaker, I have made it very clear that the signals are mixed. In fact we are monitoring the situation very closely.
I just think that it is really incumbent upon the hon. member as well to be balanced and not to be fear mongering. He talks about retail sales. He is wrong. Retail sales were up 1% above the fourth quarter of the year 2000. His facts are wrong.
As far as the payment of debt, the Alliance Party recommended that we pay down debt by an average of $6 billion a year. The fact is that we have paid down debt by $7 billion on average over the last four years, $1 billion more than it ever thought it could do.
Mr. Speaker, wrong again. We proposed a legislated minimum of $6 billion a year, which would add up to a whole lot more, with 75% of unanticipated surpluses going to debt reduction.
The minister talks about the IMF report which reported that over the last three years our productivity growth has been about a third of the productivity growth in the United States.
How can the minister continue to say that Canada is leading the world when in fact our major trading partner sees its productivity growing three times as fast as here in Canada because of his high tax high debt policies?
Mr. Speaker, I just want to understand this legislated debt paydown. Is that the legislated debt paydown that the then Alberta treasurer, now Leader of the Opposition, brought in when he was the treasurer of Alberta and then had to amend six months later when he could not hit the target? Is that what he is talking about?
Mr. Speaker, the new minister responsible for official languages has inherited quite a challenge.
Assimilation is taking a heavy toll on Canada's francophone and Acadian communities, despite the courageous efforts of these communities. According to Statistics Canada the rate of assimilation is constantly increasing and stood at 36% in the last census.
If the minister truly wants to change this state of affairs, and I hope he does, and come up with solutions, will he first admit that he must recognize the problem of assimilation from which these communities are suffering, rather than deny it, as the federal government has for too long done?
Mr. Speaker, the government has never denied that there were problems and we intend to do everything necessary to correct the problems that have been identified.
I simply wish to say that I will be very pleased to receive any advice the member has to give as a parliamentarian, but his political party, with its plan to establish an international border between the francophones of this country, lacks all credibility in this regard.
Mr. Speaker, those who have no credibility are those who make such remarks because, if there are problems, they are attributable to the federal government, even with Quebec still in the federation. The sovereignists have undertaken to recognize and maintain the rights of Anglo-Quebecers in a sovereign Quebec.
When the minister implies, and this is too often the case with federal ministers, that communities would no longer have rights without Quebec, is this not blackmail, because these communities should have collective rights, whether or not Quebec is there, because these communities exist in their own right in Acadia and throughout Canada, whether or not Quebec is a member of the federation? This is blackmail.
Mr. Speaker, it stands to reason that the worst thing that could happen to the francophones of this country would be to find themselves divided by a move to separate, which in no way serves their interests.
Mr. Speaker, before we hear about blackmail, let us talk about the best thing that could happen to francophone and Acadian communities.
The commissioner recognizes that the best services to minority communities are provided in Quebec. Anglophones have health, cultural and educational services in English.
Will the minister pledge to propose to the provinces to provide services for francophones and Acadians that are equivalent to those provided to anglophones in Quebec? That would be best. Will the minister deal with this issue?
Mr. Speaker, it is all together that francophones will succeed in promoting the cause of French in Quebec, in Canada and all over the world.
This will definitely not be achieved by a political party that called francophones outside Quebec dead ducks, francophones-poof and paraplegics.
Mr. Speaker, when I hear the minister continuing to resort to blackmailing these communities, when I hear the Prime Minister say that if there were problems it is because of cuts, I wonder how he explains the cut of $100 million that he made to his official languages support program, while at the same time investing $60 million to create the Canada Information Office, which is mostly active in Quebec.
Would it not have been better to use that money to help communities in anglophone provinces across Canada, communities that are in need and do not have access to the same services as Anglo-Quebecers in Quebec?
Mr. Speaker, for the first time in human history, the number of languages in the world is diminishing instead of increasing.
For the first time in human history, a language, English, will become an international language to an even greater extent than Latin was in antiquity.
Canada is the one country in the world that has shown the way to linguistic pluralism. We have shown that we were right to do so.
Mr. Speaker, according to the Toronto Dominion Bank, the government's policy to accelerate economic integration with the U.S. means Canada might just as well abandon its own currency and just cede control of its monetary policy to the Americans. That is where the Prime Minister's love affair with the FTAA is leading us.
Canadians need to hear loud and clear that the government categorically rejects this recipe for Canada's demise. Will the government give that assurance today?
Mr. Speaker, the leader of the NDP has somewhat misread the article.
The document by the Toronto Dominion Bank said that dollarization would not be the appropriate policy at this time. It then went on to say “However, it might be at some future time”.
If what the hon. member wants is a categorical refusal to go the dollarization route, if what the hon. member is looking for is a reaffirmation of this government's intention to maintain monetary sovereignty, I am delighted to say that is exactly this government's policy.
Mr. Speaker, within 10 years does not seem like much of a future, far off date.
The finance minister mouths words about maintaining control of our currency, yet the government cannot change the rules fast enough to weaken our ability to do that with changes to the financial services act and through propelling us further into an ill conceived FTAA.
The government promises to maintain our currency and systematically erodes the very foundation of the Canadian dollar. Is the government doing this in total ignorance or is it sheer hypocrisy?
Mr. Speaker, given the positions that have been taken by the NDP and given those criteria and the elements one requires to have monetary sovereignty, it is a little hard to understand her question.
The fact is that elimination of deficits and the pay down of debt are part of that. The NDP has opposed that. Reduction of taxes is a part of that. The NDP has opposed that. In fact in all areas where the government has sought to invest to support the new economy, research and development and regional development, all areas which would build the new economy, the NDP has consistently taken a position of voting against the government.
The fact is that her positions taken in parliament—
The right hon. member for Calgary Centre.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Deputy Prime Minister. The Business Development Bank asked Justice Silcoff for an order that included the destruction of documents. That is a very unusual request, and the judge refused it.
Why did the crown corporation request the destruction of documents? Was the Prime Minister or anyone on his behalf involved in any way with the decision to ask the court to order the destruction of documents?
Mr. Speaker, neither the Prime Minister nor his staff was involved in any effort to get a court order on this matter. I challenge the accuracy of the hon. member's remarks about destruction of documents.
In any event this was done by the bank, an arm's length agency from the federal government. The Prime Minister was not involved.
Mr. Speaker, I have another question for the Deputy Prime Minister. The Business Development Bank documents confirm that its own loan analysis showed that the Auberge Grand-Mère loan was very high risk.
When the Prime Minister was lobbying the Business Development Bank on behalf of Mr. Duhaime, was he advised of that unusually high risk? If he knew that this involved such an unusual risk of public funds, what special circumstances caused him to press for this loan?
Mr. Speaker, it has been put on record many times that the decision was made within the bank according to its usual practices.
A validation of the decision by the bank is through the fact that the local caisse populaire and the Fonds de solidarité des travailleurs du Québec looked at this project and decided to share in its financing. They were not linked in any way with the Prime Minister who made representations properly as a member of parliament.
The decision was made within the bank. It was validated by the caisse populaire and the worker solidarity fund. If the hon. member wants to attack these arm's length bodies, it shows just how weak and empty his arguments are in this matter.
Mr. Speaker, speaking of Shawinigate, the ethics counsellor has shown his love of travel. As a matter of fact, other than Canada, he has visited 22 countries in the last three years, all at taxpayer expense.
Could the minister explain how the ethics counsellor can find many international destinations but does not seem to be able to find the Prime Minister's riding in Quebec?
Mr. Speaker, the hon. member has now found a new way to sink to a new low, attacking the integrity of a distinguished public servant. He ought to be ashamed of himself. He must have travelled a long way to get even deeper in the mud than he is already.
Quite the contrary, Mr. Speaker. The call is for an independent public inquiry. We have the ethics puppy dog who has been to South America, Australia, China, and Europe, all on the taxpayer dime. He has never found his way to Shawinigan, Quebec.
This is why Canadians are demanding that we have a full independent public inquiry. When will we get it?
Mr. Speaker, there is no need and no basis for the kind of inquiry sought by the hon. member. The ethics counsellor, a distinguished permanent career public servant, has looked into the matter and found no breach of ethics. The RCMP has looked into the matter and found nothing to go on.
I see the desperation of the Alliance Party by this renewed attempt to detract attention from its own implosion and disruption in trying to raise this matter rather than conditions and questions of interest to Canadians. Why does it not get back on track before it disintegrates completely?
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Minister of Industry made the statement that the lease between the Auberge Grand-Mère and the golf club was a forgery. He has now had 24 hours to verify that the lease is genuine.
How can the government justify the letter sent by the Prime Minister to the Conservative leader with statements to the effect that there was no connection whatsoever between the auberge and the golf club and that, on the contrary, they were competitors, whereas once again the lease proves exactly the opposite?
Mr. Speaker, I totally reject the premise of the hon. member's question.
The ethics counsellor reported on this matter and clearly stated in a press release dated March 1, 2001, in connection with the company, in which the Prime Minister had an interest, as follows:
The company sold its interests in the Auberge Grand-Mère to Mr. Yvon Duhaime. This company was paid in full by the summer of 1993.
Therefore, there were no continuing financial links between Mr. Duhaime and the Prime Minister after the middle of 1993.
Mr. Speaker, I think the Deputy Prime Minister is playing the wrong tape.
The Shawinigan property registry—here I am talking about a lease, so let the Deputy Prime Minister not answer about something other than the lease—indicates the existence of a lease signed in 1988, but has no indication of that lease being terminated before it expired in 1998.
Will the Deputy Prime Minister finally admit that the existence of this lease clearly demonstrates that the Prime Minister was in a conflict of interest situation?
No, Mr. Speaker, absolutely not.
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Health will know that one of the concerns surrounding this billion dollars for new equipment for Canadians is that the money is allegedly being used not to buy the needed new equipment but to pay for existing orders, equipment that had already been ordered and would have come anyway. In other words, some of the billion dollars is not buying new equipment.
Could the minister could tell us if he could do anything to ensure that Canadians actually get a billion dollars worth of new equipment that they would not have had otherwise?
Mr. Speaker, the member raises a very good point. It was part of the agreement last September that as the Government of Canada provided the billion dollars and left it to the provinces to exercise their judgment about what equipment to buy, they would report to the public on how they spent that money so the public could see that it went for new equipment.
I am writing my provincial counterparts to ask them to now report to the public on how that money was used so we may all see that it went to new medical equipment.
Mr. Speaker, this question is particularly critical in light of some of the recent concerns raised by radiologists, for example, saying that tests are not only unreliable but there may need to be some legal warnings to patients that they are not getting good results from equipment.
Could the minister tell us the time line he has in mind for Canadians to know exactly what they are getting for this expenditure?
Mr. Speaker, I will ask the provincial and territorial ministers of health to respond as soon as possible. Obviously I will make their responses public as they have undertaken to tell the public how they are spending that money.
The government believes strongly that Canadians, no matter where they live, have the right of access to the finest, the best, the most effective medical equipment and treatment and need settle for nothing less. That was our objective in putting that money on the table.
Mr. Speaker, while the oil companies continue to accumulate huge profits and we witness real collusion, the prices at the pump continue to rise.
The former Minister of Industry could come up with no better idea than to order a study by the Conference Board, where the oil companies are represented. As we expected, it produced nothing.
The public wants the government to take strong action against the oil companies. Will the government finally admit that its study is worthless? While they studied and pussyfooted around, the prices kept rising, and the oil companies made unconscionable profits.
Mr. Speaker, the study that was undertaken by the conference board was obviously a very independent and professional study. I would point out that the conference board includes in its ranks a number of eminent organizations from the province of Quebec, including the Quebec department of natural resources. The study should have some credibility on that basis.
The issue of the regulation of consumer prices of petroleum products is very squarely within the jurisdiction of the provinces, not the Government of Canada but the provinces. I would like to know from the hon. gentleman if is recommending a federal intrusion in provincial jurisdiction.
Mr. Speaker, the government, the Minister of Natural Resources can think of nothing better to say than increases are inevitable and others are to blame. In the meantime, truckers, taxi drivers, farmers and low income households continue to pay exorbitant prices.
Will the minister acknowledge finally that, instead of preaching resignation, he should consolidate the provisions of the Competition Act, which by the way is a federal jurisdiction, to bring the oil companies into line once and for all?
Mr. Speaker, we have the competition bureau to receive evidence. If there is evidence, it should be passed along to the competition bureau.
However, regulating the retail price of gasoline is a provincial matter. If the member is serious with his question, why does he not approach his colleagues in Quebec to get this matter settled?
Mr. Speaker, in 1999-2000, the government accumulated revenues of about $333 million by imposing a tax on a tax.
Indeed, the GST is imposed on the federal and provincial taxes on gasoline.
My question is for the Minister of Finance. Will he finally correct that injustice by eliminating double taxation on gasoline?
Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member surely knows, this is an issue that was raised vigorously here and that was examined by several of our members, including the hon. member for Pickering—Ajax—Uxbridge.
We did the necessary review. We talked to small retailers and companies. They told us that if we went ahead with that measure, it would really create an administrative nightmare for them and that it would be better to leave things as they are.
As I told the hon. members from our party, we continue to look at the situation.
Mr. Speaker, in 1995 the government raised the federal excise tax on gasoline by 1.5 cents per litre in order to fight the deficit. That battle has been over yet Canadians are still paying that tax, over $700 million in 1999-2000 alone.
Will the Minister of Finance do the right thing and eliminate this needless tax?
Mr. Speaker, if we look at the taxes on gasoline they are substantially higher at the provincial level than they are at the federal level. That is why the federal government made the offer to all provinces that if they wanted to act in concert on this matter we would be prepared to do so.
The fact is a number of the provinces pointed out, including the province of Ontario, that any reduction in tax would be simply lost in volatility at the pump, and they were not prepared to proceed.
Mr. Speaker, as all members of the House will know, it has been a long and difficult winter for P.E.I. potato producers.
Many warehouses still remain full of high quality potatoes blocked from movement to market by unfair United States trade action.
It is my understanding that some progress has been made to resolve this dispute. What could the minister tell the House and Prince Edward Island potato producers with respect to the discussions and any decisions which have been reached on this issue?
Mr. Speaker, we all recognize the difficulty this issue has caused for the producers of potatoes in Prince Edward Island. There has been a lot of discussion. The Prime Minister has entered into discussion at least twice with the president. Officials have been in discussions. I have been in discussions with the secretary in the United States.
Yesterday and today officials are again meeting. They are exchanging documents this morning and this afternoon. I am very optimistic that in the very near future we will have the border open between Canada and the United States.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the trade minister. While police were firing tear gas and plastic bullets last weekend on peaceful demonstrators in Quebec City, inside the summit leaders were celebrating their great democracy clause.
Is it not a fact that this so-called democracy clause makes absolutely no link whatsoever between respect for democracy and access to the FTAA? In fact, the only sanction is exclusion from hemispheric summits. Is it not just window dressing to cover up their failure to deal with human rights, the environment and worker rights?
Mr. Speaker, the immense commitment, under the leadership of our Prime Minister, the hemispheric leaders met through the democracy clause has also been supported by the world banks that have committed to work in that direction. I think this is major progress.
As the free trade area of the Americas is also one of the results of the summit of the Americas, one cannot participate in the free trade area of the Americas if one is not part of the summit. One cannot participate in the summit if one does not respect democracy.
Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Yesterday people around the world solemnly commemorated the Armenian genocide of 1915.
When will the Liberal government finally stand up to pressure from the Turkish government and officially recognize, along with many parliaments including the French parliament, this genocide not just as a calamity, not just as a tragedy, but as a genocide, the massacre of 1.5 million Armenians in 1915?
Mr. Speaker, first I am very pleased to know that there is a fund being accumulated for the hon. member's trousers. I hope to contribute to it.
I would also like to remind him of the importance that many of us place on his actually coming out and condemning the violence that occurred so often in Quebec City on the wrong side, so that we understand exactly where he stands on the question of how we maintain order and civility in society.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister for International Trade. Yesterday the Americans added Atlantic Canada to their softwood lumber countervail charges. Atlantic Canada through industry efforts had been excluded.
What action has the minister taken to deal with this important issue before we have bankrupt mills in Atlantic Canada?
Mr. Speaker, there were consultations last week in Washington with the commerce department. Our government has made very clear that if the Americans wanted to recognize what they have recognized in the past 20 years, that there are no allegations from the producers in the United States about Atlantic Canada, and wanted to make an exemption, this is something that our government would certainly support.
We are engaged in consultations with the commerce department in order to recognize what has been recognized for many years, that is an exemption for Atlantic producers in any countervailing duty. We will fight for the whole country.
Mr. Speaker, on April 9 the Minister for International Trade held a press conference in which he stated that there was no urgency in the softwood lumber issue because “there is no way countervailing duties could apply before August”.
This is wrong. The duties could be retroactively charged as of yesterday. Already softwood lumber orders are being cancelled.
Will the minister finally call together the industry from coast to coast and once and for all establish a plan of action the industry can live with?
Mr. Speaker, we have been in consultation with the industry on a daily basis for a very long time. We have been monitoring the file extremely closely. We will be having a stakeholders conference in the next few weeks when the industry also feels that the time is opportune.
I think it is very important that as a country we remain united. We should not play one region against the other. We should try not to panic. We should not play the game of the Americans, because we know that on this issue, east and west, Atlantic and Quebec, we are not subsidizing our industry and we should say it loud and clear.
Mr. Speaker, another damaging audit has condemned Industry Canada in the handling of the access.ca project.
This audit found that the information highway branch bypassed the federal contracting system, backdated agreements and could not confirm whether those companies paid to deliver the program had fulfilled their obligations.
Will the minister explain why he would tolerate such shoddy and dubious management in this project?
Mr. Speaker, I am also answering for the Minister of Industry today.
The hon. member has asked an interesting question. I will have to check to see whether what he is saying is accurate. I will look into it, and either myself or the Minister of Industry will get back to him before too long.
Mr. Speaker, while he is looking into it, maybe he could look into a couple of other matters.
This is a follow up audit to another that raised serious questions last October. Despite being given explicit training on correct procurement procedures after the last audit, the director continued to flaunt the rules. In fact this individual pressured fellow employees to approve questionable invoices and told them not to express concerns about the contracting process.
Will the minister or the Deputy Prime Minister assure the House that he will either direct the branch to follow the government's procurement rules or else set them free to the private sector?
Mr. Speaker, first I will check on the accuracy of what the hon. member has said. We will look into this and provide him with an answer.
In the meantime, I would love to see a management audit of the Alliance Party. I am sure there would be some shocking results in it to date. Where is its management audit?
Mr. Speaker, under the WTO agreement, Canada may import 20,400 tonnes of cheese annually. But, without any trade agreement requiring it to do so, Canada last year imported 9,000 additional tonnes of cheese.
Will the Minister for International Trade confirm that the government issued such permits and that it is thus continuing to import cheese in excess of WTO quotas?
Mr. Speaker, it is clear that the Canadian government always respects its international obligations.
It is true that we occasionally go beyond our obligations when it comes to international trade. This can sometimes arise because Canadian consumers are asking for more of certain specific products. When they justify their need for those products, we can then exceed quotas to meet domestic needs.
Mr. Speaker, I am not sure that the minister understood the question.
This is an issue that is detrimental to the interests of dairy producers in Quebec and in Canada, who already have excess inventory on their hands.
Since Canada is under no obligation in this regard, will the minister undertake not to issue any more such supplementary import permits?
Mr. Speaker, we certainly do not issue supplementary import permits when products are not requested or required in connection with the needs of certain consumers or of our market.
We definitely have the best interest of our dairy industry's cheese producers at heart. We are regularly prepared to promote their interests outside the country, just as we are going to keep on respecting, but not exceeding, our international trade obligations, barring a specific requirement in our economy.
Mr. Speaker, an internal evaluation conducted by the United Nations development program exposed its west African gun control project as a complete failure.
Unfortunately for Canadian taxpayers the minister responsible for CIDA sunk $400,000 into this botched project. Why does this minister continue to give hundreds of thousands of dollars with no monitoring in place to ensure value for taxpayer money?
Mr. Speaker, one of the main priorities of my department is peace building and conflict resolution and to try to bring peace in different parts of the world where thousands of people are still dying.
It is absolutely critical that we continue to assist and work very hard to ensure that peace is negotiated and brought about and victims get the kind of assistance they need.
Mr. Speaker, the question was regarding gun control in west Africa. According to the minister's draft long term strategy document, “CIDA finds itself managing a large number of projects, with fewer and fewer resources and more and more demands on staff time and resources”.
How could the minister guarantee taxpayer value for aid dollars when the number of projects remain constant but the resources to monitor them are shrinking?
Mr. Speaker, I assure the member that every program at CIDA is thoroughly monitored. In fact the auditor general in all audits said that 97% of all the programs that were audited showed 100% compliance.
We are very careful and the department is extremely vigilant in all the programming that we do.
Mr. Speaker, serious allegations were made in the House yesterday regarding living conditions on Canadian Forces Base Esquimalt. I call on the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of National Defence to respond to this allegation.
Mr. Speaker, the member's question is a good one.
Over $5 million has been invested in health and safety repairs for married quarters over the last two years at CFB Esquimalt. The health and safety of all members of the Canadian forces is our first priority. We intend it to continue to be our first priority.
Mr. Speaker, today Canada's privacy commissioner is questioning the practice by Canada Customs and Revenue of opening mail on behalf of Immigration Canada and other departments. The commissioner had previously suggested that the immigration department obtain a search warrant to open large suspicious parcels. That suggestion was rejected by the minister of immigration.
My question is for the immigration minister. Why did she balk at getting search warrants to open these packages and not protect the privacy of the citizens of the country?
Mr. Speaker, I have asked my departmental officials to verify that the powers which are in the hands of customs and revenue are in compliance with the law which was passed by the House.
Certainly privacy is a paramount consideration. However the member should know that we are very concerned about fraudulent documents which are coming into Canada in packages that are properly opened by customs and revenue to ensure the national security interests of all Canadians are considered as a priority.
Mr. Speaker, are we to understand that the privacy of our citizens is less important than the convenience of the immigration department?
I am not disputing the need for confiscation of contraband items, but protecting the privacy of Canadian citizens should be top priority, not invading it.
What are the minister's specific plans to ensure that the mail which crosses our borders will not be tampered with unnecessarily?
Mr. Speaker, the member should know that Citizenship and Immigration Canada does not have any legislative authority to open mail. The department does not do that.
It is Customs and Excise Canada that opens mail where it has reasonable grounds to believe that the package contains documents which may be fraudulent. Those are then given to the Department of Citizenship and Immigration as evidence and can be seized under the Immigration Act. That is in the national security interests of Canada and, as I said before, privacy concerns are always paramount.
Mr. Speaker, the softwood lumber agreement ended on April 1, and producers in Quebec and Canada are concerned by the turn of events and the attitude of the Americans, who are calling for the imposition of countervailing duties.
Could the Minister for International Trade not show a little more initiative and be a little less professorial with American producers by forming a delegation to explain just what goes on in the lumber industry in Canada?
Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member very much for her constructive suggestion.
Every possible way to inform American opinion and to make it clear to the U.S. Congress just how things are and how they work in Canada would be useful.
I can assure the member that the Canadian embassy has done a magnificent job over the past year and that we have more support in Washington than we have had for a very long time.
I invite all of my colleagues visiting Washington or meeting American legislators to be sure to pass on accurate information to build our case.
Mr. Speaker, on Monday an historic labour agreement was signed with Costa Rica.
My question is for the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Labour. Could she explain to the House the importance of this agreement?
Mr. Speaker, this agreement on labour co-operation with Costa Rica demonstrates Canada's commitment to promoting and protecting worker rights in the context of the trade liberalization of the Americas.
Both countries have pledged to enforce their laws relating to the 1998 ILO declaration on fundamental rights and principles at work.
I draw the attention of hon. members to the presence in the gallery of the recipients of the Governor