 It being Wednesday, we will now have the singing of the national anthem led by the hon. member for Louis-Saint-Laurent.
[Members sang the national anthem]
Mr. Speaker, it is an honour to rise today to share with you and all of my colleagues a brief report on the events in Lima, Peru, in December 2014 at the 20th Conference of the Parties on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.
I know all members will be very concerned about the results of the conference since the Government of Canada and all parties in this place adhere to at least the same goal: to ensure that we have a legally binding, comprehensive treaty by December 2015 at the next conference, which will be the 21st Conference of the Parties. 
All countries around the world and all parties in this place are also, at least on paper, committed to ensuring that the levels of greenhouse gases be brought down sufficiently to ensure that the planet not experience as much as a 2°C global average temperature increase.
We have a long way to go to make the treaty work in December 2015. We need to work together. The results from Lima were not encouraging. In fact, we need Canada to show leadership.
Mr. Speaker, last Friday, I was privileged to welcome to Richmond Hill the right hon. Prime Minister for a historic anti-terrorism announcement to help protect Canadians here at home.
The anti-terrorism act, 2015, further exemplifies our government's commitment to keep our streets and communities safe, including from those who would perpetrate terror on the Canadian people. With this legislation, law enforcement agencies would have additional tools to detect and apprehend terrorists and to keep pace with evolving threats.
My constituents congratulate this government for taking such strong action. Carol Jean, from Richmond Hill, wrote that “Our Prime Minister is courageous. He will not let Canadians down and this legislation is needed to protect innocent lives”. Shawn said, “On anti-terrorism, we finally have a Prime Minister that gets it, and does what he says”. 
I am proud to be part of a government that is committed to protecting the safety and security of all Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, “Not Beyond Us” is the theme of this year's World Cancer Day. This is a message the global community needs to hear. 
Currently, 7.6 million people die from cancer worldwide every year. Currently, the Canadian Cancer Society has stated that over 76,000 Canadians died from cancer in the year 2014. 
Clearly, there must be a global commitment to drive advancements in policy and implementation of comprehensive national cancer control plans. To succeed in this endeavour, we must share a collective responsibility to support low and middle-income countries. 
Ensuring the availability of, and access to, early detection programs for cancer will significantly reduce the cancer burden in all countries. We must stand, nation alongside nation, to ensure that one day, the World Cancer Day theme changes from “Not Beyond Us” to “Now Behind Us”.
Mr. Speaker, after decades of drug-running, extortion and prostitution by the mafia, it appears the mob has found a racket even more profitable: wind turbine subsidies. In Ontario, these subsidies are disguised as a carbon tax on electricity bills called the global adjustment. For those on fixed incomes, they either pay up or are threatened with having their power cut. It is called energy poverty. 
FIT subsidies were dreamed up in Toronto by the same individuals who now surround the green leader of the Liberal Party in Ottawa. This is not about renewable energy projects or who cares more about the environment. 
This is about a few Liberal Party insiders collecting huge sums of money at the expense of the environment and people who can least afford it. The greed energy act is bankrupting Ontario and will bankrupt Canada when Toronto Liberal advisers impose their radical extremist policies on all Canadians. 
Rather than be lost at sea with a party adrift with extremist policies, Canadians will continue to benefit from the strong, steady hand of a Conservative government.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize weatherman extraordinaire, Mr. Frankie MacDonald, of Whitney Pier, Nova Scotia. 
Frankie the weatherman, as he has come to be known, has taken the Internet by storm, making international headlines for his weather reports. He creates his forecast after monitoring weather on his television and computer, and then takes it to the Internet, with his knowledge and enthusiasm to let us know what type of weather we can expect and how best to prepare. 
Since he was a young boy, Frankie has always been interested in the weather. His commitment and dedication to further his passion has led to his videos being viewed by millions around the world, turning his hobby into a career. 
I ask all members of the House curious of their weather forecast to visit Frankie MacDonald's Facebook page for informative, up-to-date reports. We, as Cape Bretoners, are very proud of Frankie the weatherman and wish him all the best as he continues to keep us safe from mother nature. 
Canadians are deep in winter. As Frankie says, “Stay safe, stay warm and good luck”. 
Mr. Speaker, for people of Vietnamese heritage living in Canada, Tet is a time of rebirth and renewal, a time to let go of the difficulties of the past year and look forward to the promise of a new beginning.
This year is particularly poignant for Canada's Vietnamese community, many of whom make York Centre their home. It marks the 40th anniversary of the fall of Saigon to the Communist forces from the north. To commemorate this anniversary, I along with Senator Thanh Hai Ngo, are co-sponsoring Bill S-219, the journey to freedom day act.
This bill will establish April 30 as the day to commemorate the exodus of Vietnamese refugees and recognize Canada's role in welcoming so many. This bill also pays homage to the boat people's perilous journey in search of freedom, many of whom lost their lives at sea.
 Although a sad anniversary, the journey to freedom day act will serve as a reminder of both the boat people's hazardous journey but also a celebration of their arrival in Canada. 
As we celebrate the year of the goat, which symbolizes co-operation, peace and harmony, I say to all Canadians of Vietnamese origin, “Chuc mung nam moi”.
Mr. Speaker, we recently found out that LaSalle will lose 300 jobs because the Target store is closing. This is the latest in a long line of business and industry closures in the Montreal area.
The retail sector is booming in Canada, but most of the jobs being created are precarious and poorly paid. We are losing jobs, and the Conservatives are placing the blame elsewhere.
It is time to elect a New Democratic government that will step up to its responsibilities, fight for the middle class by protecting jobs here at home and ensure that people get adequate support if they lose their jobs. The NDP wants to create long-term jobs in growth sectors by supporting Canadian businesses that will not turn their backs on employees.
We have put forward concrete measures to get Canada on the right track and protect Canadian jobs and investment.
Mr. Speaker, it is with great honour that I stand before you today to recognize the Nach Balliye organization, which comprises a strong, passionate and talented group of young women who are determined to empower girls and break the gender discrimination in the South Asian community.
Last week, I was privileged to attend the Lohri for Her 2015 event organized by Nach Balliye. Lohri is a festival that marks new beginnings and celebrates the gift of life traditionally for newborn boys.
 Since December 2011, Nach Balliye has hosted annual Lohri for Her events which have received enormous encouragement and involvement from the community.
 On the international day of the girl, I had an opportunity to participate in a Pink Ladoos event organized by Nach Balliye where we greeted parents of newborn babies and celebrated the birth of baby girls with Pink Ladoos at the Brampton Civic Hospital.
I want to congratulate the entire Nach Balliye team on the wonderful work they do to create more gender equality through their initiatives and I encourage them to continue being a great inspiration for girls around the world.
Mr. Speaker, in 11 days we will celebrate an important milestone in our history, the 50th anniversary of Canada's distinctive flag.
Getting a flag approved by Parliament was no mean feat. The search for a new flag began in 1925, following a Privy Council initiative.
 In 1946, the search was renewed with the creation of a select parliamentary committee.
In 1964, a joint committee of the Senate and House of Commons was established, and it approved the proposal brought forward by Canadian historian Colonel George Stanley and parliamentarian and jurist John Matheson.
The Canadian flag was raised by Governor General Georges Vanier on February 15, 1965, under the watchful eye of Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson.
The blood of our troops was spilled in order to keep this flag flying high, this symbol of our values of freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
Let us celebrate it.
Mr. Speaker, years ago at Danforth and Vic Park, Ford then Nash Motors and finally American Motors churned out cars for the Canadian market and provided good jobs for Toronto.
 That old auto plant now houses, but just for a few more weeks, a Target store. That tells a story about the failed economic management of successive Liberal and Conservative governments.
 In just a few weeks dozens of part-time employees will lose their jobs at that store. Many will not be eligible for El, yet another indictment of Liberal and Conservative governments.
Many come from the Crescent Town community, a community with double Toronto's unemployment rate, double Toronto's poverty rate, where too many work long and hard but continue to struggle. This is the urban economy created by successive Liberal and Conservative governments.
 Earlier this month, the Minister of Finance promised these employees every assistance to find new employment. These employees want to know when that is coming and where that is. If it is for real, it cannot come soon enough.
Mr. Speaker, since coming to office, our government has made it a duty to ensure that Canadian families have the support they need to grow and thrive. This is why our Prime Minister announced that we would be putting hard-earned money back into the pockets of Canadian moms and dads with our family tax cut plan and the enhanced child care benefit.
Soon, families in my riding of Calgary Northeast will receive just under $2,000 annually per child under the age of six. When it is added up, a family with five children will receive nearly $60,000 by the time their children turn six years old.
However, notwithstanding his lack of experience, the Liberal leader has shown that same old Liberal Party arrogance by pledging to reverse our tax breaks. The Liberals would take this money away from Canadian families.
Unlike the members on that side of the House, we will continue to stand up for hard-working Canadian families.
Mr. Speaker, during this Eating Disorder Awareness Week, it is important to remember that the images the media force on us are often modified to the extreme, portraying ideals of beauty based on extreme thinness.
 That is why I launched the “Let's be real” campaign, calling on the media to promote a healthy body image and body diversity. It also calls on the federal government to immediately implement a national strategy for eating disorders. I invite everyone to go to the website berealcanada.ca and sign the petition.
Many people are already taking action to promote body diversity, including Boisbriand resident Lysa Jobin, owner of Alysé &amp; Collections, a boutique that showcases clothing for women of all sizes, and Marie-Christine Boyte, a student at Collège Boisbriand who won a literary competition whose theme was body diversity.
Let us start the conversation, let us be real, and together we can change attitudes.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday we found out that the NDP members had yet again abused taxpayer dollars when they funnelled $2.7 million from their House of Commons office budgets to pay for so-called satellite offices in Quebec.
 Once again, the NDP continues to defend its illegal satellite offices and to deny any wrongdoing. My constituents think this is unacceptable.
The rules have always been clear: it is not acceptable to use House of Commons resources to fund party offices. Unlike the NDP, we believe political parties should pay for their own campaign offices, using their own funds.
It is sad that the NDP has demonstrated a pattern of abuse of taxpayer dollars. On this side of the House, we believe it should repay these funds immediately.
Mr. Speaker, against tremendous odds, a unique group of Canadians and Americans were called upon to perform some of the most difficult tasks of the Second World War.
Yesterday, for their achievements and their sacrifices, members of the Devil's Brigade were awarded the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest civilian honour the United States Congress can bestow.
The first special service force was an elite group made up of soldiers from both sides of the border who were trained to jump out of planes, climb mountains, sneak behind enemy lines and fight hand-to-hand if need be.
I want to congratulate Canadians John Callowhill, James Summersides, Vernon Doucette, Herb Peppard, Arthur Pottle, Wilfred Paquette, George Wright, Donald Ballantyne, Morris Lazarus, H.R. Hawkyard, Charles Mann, Ralph Mayville, Leonard Corbet and Maurice White.
I also want to honour veterans like Bernard Cooper who could not travel to the ceremony, and like Al Wilson who sadly passed away the day before.
Lest we never forget these men and the men who went before them.
Mr. .Speaker, while Canada's economy is better than many, we still remain on the road to recovery. A carbon tax is not a way to deal with economic issues in our country.
Bringing in higher taxes and higher debt is not the path on which we believe Canadians want to be. Canadians cannot afford more of the NDP and Liberals' risky tax hike schemes.
Our government believes in the importance of a strong economy and refuses to weigh it down with another tax on Canadian families. Bringing in a job-killing carbon tax is reckless.
Our Conservative government is lowering taxes for families and putting more money back into their pockets. Keeping taxes low and creating jobs are essential to keeping this economy on the right track. We will never punish Canadians with a job-killing carbon tax.
Mr. Speaker, there is more bad news about jobs this week and still no plan from the Conservatives.
Today, 383 workers at Wrigley Canada in Toronto found out they were losing their jobs. After 52 years, production is going to shift to Gainesville, Georgia.
 This comes right on the heels of other hard-working Canadians losing their jobs in retail: 17,600 families got hit by Target's closure, because a foreign company bought out their stores and then shut them down; 400 jobs lost from Tim Hortons corporate offices, along with Sony closing 14 stores and Mexx closing 95 stores. In total, 16 different chains have shut down or pulled out of Canada.
What do we get from the Conservatives? They are playing politics with the legitimate concerns of Canadians about safety from terrorism. They are planning tax cuts for the most well-off. They are delaying their budget.
Canadians deserve better, and this year they will get better when the NDP forms government.
Mr. Speaker, our family tax cut helps 100% of families with kids. Families in Don Valley East and all families with kids across Canada will benefit from our new family tax cut. Every family in my riding and across Canada will benefit by an average of over $1,100 per year, with parents receiving almost $2,000 per child.
The NDP has never met a tax it did not like and the Liberals have never seen a tax they would not hike. The Liberal leader has even pledged to reverse our tax cuts and has threatened to do exactly what the Liberal Party elites always do: raise taxes on ordinary Canadians to put into the hands of bureaucrats.
 Only this Conservative government can be trusted to put more money back into the pockets of the people of Canada.
Mr. Speaker, every day now there is news of more job losses in Canada on the Prime Minister's watch, the latest being 400 people laid off from the Wrigley plant in Toronto.
What is the Prime Minister doing to help these laid-off workers and to help the tens of thousands of others who have lost their jobs in just the last month? What specifically is he doing for these laid-off workers in Toronto and their families?
Mr. Speaker, obviously no one ever likes to see a Canadian lose a job, although these have to do with particular business decisions of particular companies.
What I do know is that, following our economic action plan of low taxes and balanced budgets, we have created 1.2 million more new jobs than have been lost. That is 1.2 million additional people working.
 It is important that we continue to focus on the needs of Canadian families by lowering their taxes and creating a good business environment so we continue to have the kind of superior record we have had as an economy during the post-recession.
Mr. Speaker, yes, that was part-time precarious work in the service sector, and let us look at the record there.
Some 1,500 jobs were lost at Jacob, 1,800 at Mexx, 2,200 at Sears, and 17,000 at Target.
Does the Prime Minister regret completely abandoning the manufacturing and retail sectors and putting all our economic eggs in the resource extraction basket, especially oil and gas?
Mr. Speaker, the manufacturing sector has been very supportive of this government's policies for that sector, and it has criticized the NDP's opposition to those policies. It has also criticized the NDP's policies to increase taxes and the deficit.
More than 80% of the 1.2 million net new jobs are full-time, and 80% are in the private sector. Two-thirds of those jobs are well paid. The numbers speak for themselves.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians know the real answer, and it is not what the Prime Minister just said.
Does the Prime Minister believe that the Security Intelligence Review Committee, which was created 30 years ago, is fully equipped today to properly oversee the operations of the Canadian Security Intelligence Service? 
Does this committee have what it takes today to do its job properly, if it was created 30 years ago?
Mr. Speaker, we have a robust oversight system for our security agencies. Our laws also require judicial authorization for the use of specific powers.
Our system is very robust. Our job here is to go after terrorists and jihadists, not our police and security agencies. 
Arthur Porter, come on down. Mr. Speaker, the Security Intelligence Review Committee is the same body that said in its last report that CSIS “seriously misled” it in one of its investigations, and that was just last year.
 How can the Prime Minister contemplate radically expanding the powers of CSIS without equally expanding oversight? Is it because the Prime Minister believes, just like his minister, that the oversight that protects Canadians from abuse of power is just red tape?
Mr. Speaker, on the contrary, the example the Leader of the Opposition cites indicates that in fact the system works, that CIRC does take its responsibilities very seriously, provides robust oversight, and has noted that these agencies operate within the law.
On top of that, there are additional clauses in this law that require additional powers to be used to seek judicial authorization.
The oversight is there. The oversight is strong. What we need to do is ensure our police and security agencies have the tools they need—that is the real job here—and ensure we are not going after them but we are going after terrorists and jihadists.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister should know that freedom and safety go hand in hand, and it is the duty of any responsible government to promote and protect both. It has to do both at the same time. Instead of that, the Prime Minister has adopted divisive language, attacked anyone who has raised questions, and failed to adopt even the most basic recommendations to improve oversight.
Will the Prime Minister agree to amend this bill to enhance oversight, yes or no?
Mr. Speaker, the bill already enhances oversight. 
Obviously, we agree on this side that freedom and security go hand in hand, which is why on this side we support some security measures. How does the leader of the NDP, if he thinks they go hand in hand, explain his opposition to every single security measure we ever put forward? That is not responsible. That is the kind of approach we expect from a party that takes public funds and uses them for party offices.
Mr. Speaker, infrastructure investment creates the jobs--
 Oh, oh!
Order. We are on to the next question. The hon. member for Papineau.
Mr. Speaker, infrastructure investment creates the jobs and growth we need to build a stronger middle class. Canada's premiers and mayors are asking for more federal investment, but instead, the building Canada fund was cut by 90%.
Will the government scrap its tax break for the wealthy and restore funding for job-creating infrastructure?
Mr. Speaker, we obviously agree that infrastructure is important for economic development. That is why we are running the largest, longest, biggest infrastructure program in Canadian history. Just within the last few weeks I announced additional funds at the federal level to make sure we eliminate the infrastructure deficit.
Unlike the Liberal Party, we do not believe it is necessary to hike taxes on families in order to fund infrastructure. We can have lower taxes, balanced budgets, and investments that will grow our economy--
The hon. member for Papineau.
Mr. Speaker, last year the building Canada fund was cut from over $2 billion to only $210 million for the entire country—nearly 90%. This year, as our economy faces new challenges, the fund is still only at $210 million. An April budget means a missed construction season.
Will the government step up and be the partner the provinces and municipalities need it to be?
Mr. Speaker, here are the facts. Two years ago, the government announced a program of over $70 billion in infrastructure investments over the next 10 years. Just in the last few weeks I announced an additional $6 billion going into just federal infrastructure, most of that to be spent over the next three years. Those are big numbers. Those are the real numbers. I urge the leader of the Liberal Party to familiarize himself with that basic arithmetic.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister insists on giving tax breaks to the rich rather than investing in infrastructure. That is the wrong priority. 
The provincial premiers have called for such investments. Canadians need them. Investments in infrastructure would promote job creation and economic growth.
Instead of giving to the rich, will the Prime Minister reverse the 90% cut he is making to infrastructure funding?
Mr. Speaker, we agree that it is important to invest in our infrastructure. 
 That is why we have a program of $75 billion of infrastructure investments over the next 10 years. It is the largest infrastructure program in Canadian history.
However, unlike the Liberal Party, we do not believe it is necessary to hike taxes on families in order to fund infrastructure. 
Our policy involves a balanced budget, lower taxes and targeted investments in areas such as infrastructure in order to promote economic growth.
Mr. Speaker, the closure of Target in Canada represents a loss of 17,000 jobs in 133 municipalities. It also affects 1,800 suppliers who are owed over $5 billion by Target. The list of creditors is 44 pages long. Some suppliers will not recover.
The Conservatives have failed to diversify our economy, and Canadians are paying the price.
I will ask the government once again: where is the plan to fight the downturn and stimulate job creation?
Mr. Speaker, we are obviously all worried about the number of people who have lost their jobs with Target after two years of failure by this American company in Canada.
We have contacted employees to provide all the services they need, including employment insurance, obviously, training programs and job notifications.
We will continue to help unemployed workers while creating jobs with our low-tax policy.
Mr. Speaker, the retail sector has often served as a lifeline for workers in other sectors who lose their jobs. However, even these jobs are disappearing.
Furthermore, January and February are not good months to be looking for a job in the retail sector.
Where is the government's plan for all these people looking for work who must continue to pay their bills?
Mr. Speaker, as I said, we obviously continue to provide access to the employment insurance program and the training programs that we have enhanced.
We will soon be launching a new job bank that will better match unemployed workers with employers who are hiring. We are working with the provinces to ensure that training programs are better aligned with the labour market.
Ultimately, we must continue to reduce taxes in order to create jobs and stimulate economic growth.
Mr. Speaker, a lot of these workers are part-time, and they do not qualify for EI. That is the problem they have created.
Job losses are mounting, retail stores are closing, and the Conservatives have no plan and no budget. A hundred and thirty-three Target stores start liquidation tomorrow. Seventeen thousand, six hundred people are losing their jobs. Hundreds of other retail stores are closing, thousands more jobs will be lost, and the minister thinks if he just ignores it, it will go away. Well, it will not. 
Canadians need a plan. Where is their plan?
Mr. Speaker, our plan has resulted in one of the best job creation records. We have developed, with the creation of 1.2 million net new jobs, one of the best economic growth records of any of the major developed economies. 
I do not know what the NDP is suggesting. Obviously we are all concerned for the employees of Target, but is the NDP suggesting that the taxpayers should subsidize this failed American retail outlet in Canada? We do not believe so. To the contrary, we believe we should continue reducing taxes to create economic growth and to create jobs rather than adopting the NDP approach of higher taxes, reckless spending, and bigger debts.
Mr. Speaker, that plan is not working. The job losses are piling up, and middle-class families are falling further behind. 
On top of thousands of jobs lost in retail, 383 workers at Wrigley Canada just found out that the Wrigley manufacturing plant in Toronto is closing. They are losing their jobs, and the Conservatives have no budget and no plan to fix the damage they have done. When will they do the right thing and agree to the NDP's plan to kick-start manufacturing and job creation?
Mr. Speaker, Canadian Manufacturers &amp; Exporters, actual people who work in manufacturing in Canada, looked at the NDP plan that my colleague is talking about, and they said that the NDP plan will put investment and jobs at risk. By contrast, here is what they said about the Conservative approach. 
 ...the programs the Conservative government has put in place do support manufacturing, and do it very well. 
We have had the misfortune in this country, in British Columbia and Nova Scotia, a couple of places that have had an NDP government, and we know what the NDP plan and approach is for small business. If someone wants to create a small business under an NDP government, it is quite easy: start a large business and just wait. 
Mr. Speaker, despite the Prime Minister's claims, the mayors of Canada's major cities are speaking with one voice, and their demands echo those of the provinces.
We have a serious infrastructure deficit. The municipalities need the federal government to invest in infrastructure and affordable social housing. We need to catch up, and this will create more jobs. 
Why is the government incapable of working with other levels of government to stimulate job growth and infrastructure development?
Mr. Speaker, our government has introduced the largest and the longest infrastructure plan in Canada's history, with $75 billion over the next 10 years. This includes the $53-billion new building Canada plan for municipal, provincial, and territorial infrastructure.
We are making record investments and are keeping taxes low. The NDP, in addition to needing to mortgage its own party, it would appear, would also mortgage the future of our kids and our grandkids.
Mr. Speaker, Canada's big city mayors are calling for an urban agenda. They are looking for collaboration with the federal government to address crumbling infrastructure, a crisis in affordable housing, and funding for public transit, but the Conservatives govern as though cities do not exist, as if 80% of Canadians do not live in urban communities.
Why are they leaving cities to fend for themselves? Why will they not support the infrastructure necessary to build more competitive and livable cities?
Mr. Speaker, our Conservative government is making record investments in infrastructure. This includes public transit. In fact, public transit is an eligible category under every component of the new building Canada plan. What is more, we respect the jurisdiction of municipalities and provinces. They choose, they identify, their infrastructure project priorities.
We look forward to continuing to work with our partners.
Mr. Speaker, as job losses mount in Alberta, the Conservatives are busy making it easier for employers to hire temporary foreign workers. 
Today we learned that they secretly made a deal with Alberta to allow employers there to exceed the 30% cap. Just like they have so many times before, the Conservatives made a big splashy announcement about cracking down, and now they are quietly creating loopholes.
When are the Conservatives finally going to get serious about protecting Canadian jobs?
Mr. Speaker, sometimes the NDP's hypocrisy really is breathtaking. This is the party that demanded that we give permanent residency to every single temporary foreign worker in Canada, which would imply, by the way, doubling Canadian immigration levels. Canadians do not support that.
However, there are about 1,000 temporary foreign workers in Alberta with pending permanent residency applications who are about to fall out of status. We are just going to allow them to stay in Canada until a decision is made on their permanent residency applications, which is exactly what the NDP asked us to do.
Why can the socialists never take yes for an answer?
Mr. Speaker, while we are losing jobs by the thousands, the Conservatives continue to cave in to blackmail from Alberta industries. Last year they made a whole show of saying that they had finally fixed the problems with the temporary foreign worker program. However, we have now learned that they flouted the rules once again, allowing employers in Alberta to exceed and circumvent the cap on the number of foreign workers hired, at the expense of Canadians.
When will the Conservatives get serious about protecting Canadians and creating jobs for Canadians?
Mr. Speaker, the NDP's comments are embarrassing. The NDP is the one that demanded the government allow 100% of temporary foreign workers to remain in Canada permanently. That is not what Canadians or this government want.
One thousand workers in Alberta applied to remain in Canada permanently. There is a good chance that these applications will be approved by the Alberta government. They will be allowed to remain here a few months until their applications are finalized. It is the compassionate thing to do and it is exactly what the NDP originally asked for.
Mr. Speaker, job growth is at its lowest level in five years. Some 200,000 jobs that were in the economy before the recession are gone and have not come back, and the Conservatives are panicking with no budget and no plan.
Does anyone else notice how desperate the Conservatives have become to talk about anything other than the economy? But it is their mismanagement that has led to 1.3 million Canadians being out of a job. New Democrats will keep putting forward solutions to help Canadians and the manufacturing sector.
However, when will see this Minister of Finance stand up with some of his own solutions, with his own budget perhaps? When will see a plan to get Canadians back to work? Why will he not answer a simple question?
Mr. Speaker, the NDP sees a plan, but voted against every single element of it. 
They voted against cutting taxes for small businesses. They voted against cutting income taxes. They voted against cutting the GST. They voted against increased investments in job training. They have voted against every constructive measure: the Canada apprenticeship loan, the Canada job grant, and the incentive grant for new apprentices.
 Everything that has helped this country have one of the best job creation records in the developed world has been opposed by the NDP, and their only solution is higher taxes, reckless spending, and more debt. That would lead to more jobs being lost.
Mr. Speaker, the Veterans Ombudsman has said that he is “...disappointed that the update provides no details on how the substantive deficiencies with the New Veterans Charter (NVC) are to be addressed.” He continues that “...we’re not starting from scratch. Much research has been done and many reports have focussed on them.” 
Now VAC needs to act. The Royal Canadian Legion has said that the government had plenty of time to make changes, but lacked the willingness to look after our veterans.
The minister thinks veterans can be satisfied with a late Friday night tweet. What happened to his new approach? Is he really any different from the predecessor?
Mr. Speaker, as that member knows, I was in Hamilton on Friday where I spoke directly with Canadian Forces members and veterans on the new veterans charter, while opening an operational stress injury clinic that will serve veterans in Guelph. 
In addition to that, the report was filed with the committee, and I will not apologize for engaging and talking with veterans wherever they are, in our legions or online. I am listening and acting, and I hope he would get on board.
Mr. Speaker, eliminating the mandatory long form census is perhaps not the worst thing the Conservatives have done—competition for that title is fierce—but it is certainly the stupidest. This move has been widely condemned.
I would like to quote Paul Jacobson, president of the Canadian Association for Business Economics:
 ...it has become all but impossible to draw intelligent—or even accurate—conclusions about...critical aspects of economic policy. 
To clean up the mess it has made of our economy, will the government support the excellent bill introduced by the member for Kingston and the Islands?
Mr. Speaker, if my colleague wants to support an excellent bill on this matter, he should support the bill introduced by my colleague from Elgin—Middlesex—London.
With regard to the census, we are confident that in 2016, as was the case in 2011, the government will get plenty of quality information on each region so that it can implement all the requisite systems and programs to meet the needs of Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, that is simply not true. Everyone in business knows that we live in the age of big data. That is why Canada's leading economists and the CFIB are united in calling for the return of the long form census. As Roger Martin of the University of Toronto said, in direct contradiction of what we just heard, “It is just disinformation to say the current survey works”.
Will the government finally reverse its anti-science, anti-business, and antediluvian policy and return the long form census as my colleague's bill calls for?
It is quite ridiculous, of course, Mr. Speaker, as Wayne Smith, the CEO of Stats Canada, has testified before the industry committee and said quite clearly to Canadians that the 2011 census provided Canadians with the data that we require as a government and all levels of government require in order to provide the necessary services to Canadians.
The 2016 census will yield quality data for all Canadians that they can rely on as we move forward.
Mr. Speaker, nearly a year ago, we asked the Minister of State for Democratic Reform if he had consulted the Chief Electoral Officer about his unfair elections act. 
He said he did, but he did not. Now we have another bill before us that is violating Canadians' right to vote.
Did the minister actually consult Elections Canada this time?
Mr. Speaker, I am aware of the Chief Electoral Officer of Canada's position. 
The purpose of this bill is to ensure that everyone who votes is a citizen. It requires people to show identification before voting. That applies to Canadians living here in Canada, and once the House of Commons passes this bill, it will apply to all Canadians living abroad.
Mr. Speaker, the minister keeps spinning this new bill as somehow being about preventing fraudulent voting from abroad. We have seen this movie before. The reality is that the minister is creating new obstacles and new hoops to jump through that would make it exceptionally difficult for all Canadians abroad to vote in our elections, for no reason at all.
Can the minister provide a single scrap of evidence that Canadians voting from abroad are engaging in any form of cheating whatsoever?
Mr. Speaker, 87% of Canadians believe that when they vote, it is reasonable to expect them to bring some ID. Obviously, when people from outside the country vote, they do not present that ID in person. That is why the bill before the House would allow them to do so, by scanning the documents, emailing them in, and requesting that the ballot be sent to them by mail, which they can send back. The timelines work out for them to do that. 
The bottom line is this. The bill would ensure that those people who vote are citizens and that they have identification to prove they are eligible to vote in the riding in which their vote would be counted.
Mr. Speaker, the current government does not seem to get the message. More powers for CSIS means a need for better oversight. In case the minister missed it, let me quote the latest annual report from the Security Intelligence Review Committee. This report said that “...it seems reasonable for Canadians to ask whether the intelligence accountability framework that was designed 30 years ago is still appropriate to deal with the realities of contemporary intelligence work.” That is what the SIRC annual report says.
The Conservatives agree that the intelligence environment has changed, so why are they so opposed to better oversight?
Mr. Speaker, there is oversight. We believe that the oversight in place is consistent. It is third-party, non-partisan, independent expert oversight that is required in this instance. Those key powers that exist in the legislation are subject to that oversight, in addition to the judicial oversight and the oversight of the Attorney General or prosecutors working with the police. We believe that is sufficient. We believe that is the way this bill would protect Canadians and, as the Leader of the Opposition said, strike that balance between security and the need to protect Canadians' rights.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday, the minister went on at length about the program to counter violent extremism.
However, he never said a word about any new funding even though the program has been in place since 2013. The minister said that urgent measures must be taken to protect Canadians.
If that is the case, why is he dragging his feet when it comes to funding the fight against radicalization?
Mr. Speaker, this legislation does include tools that would allow the authorities to take practical action regarding radicalization. That includes, of course, the take-down of material that might be seen as promoting or actively engaging terrorists. 
In addition, there are already in place abilities for our security forces to engage with the public, with groups that might be subject or prone to radicalization. We have cultural round tables. There are a number of ways in which outreach helps us in this regard.
With respect to resources, we have consistently increased resources, while members of the NDP have consistently opposed those increases.
Mr. Speaker, families in Calgary Centre have told me that what they really want from their federal government is tax relief. They also want direct support, money in their pockets they can use as they see fit to help with the costs of raising their kids. What families do not want is big government bureaucracy and waste.
Can the Minister of State for Social Development please tell us and Canadian families what our government is doing for them.
Mr. Speaker, the member for Calgary Centre is right: parents with children need support. They need lower taxes. That is exactly what we are delivering with our family tax cut, which would benefit close to two million families with children; and the expansion of our universal child care benefit, which would benefit every family in Canada with children.
Families that I have spoken to are excited. They are looking forward to this benefit and the tax cut. What they need to know, and what they do know, is that the Liberals and the New Democrats would take that away. Instead, they would introduce reckless spending, higher taxes, and more debt. This Prime Minister and this government will not let that happen.
Mr. Speaker, Canada's firefighters are very concerned, and for good reason. They are asking the government to take concrete action to improve Canadians' safety and especially to save lives.
Our firefighters are on the front lines every day, and they know what makes the difference between life and death. We have to listen to them. They gave the government a detailed plan to, for example, make seniors' residences safer.
Will the government agree to work with firefighters, the provinces and municipalities to better protect public safety?
Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member is fully aware, firefighters across this country do not fall under federal jurisdiction. 
I will let members know that I am married to a firefighter, and when it comes to issues concerning keeping Canadians safe and putting out fires, I am very supportive of the work that my husband does to keep the residents of Toronto safe.
Mr. Speaker, recent train derailments in Lac Mégantic; Plaster Rock, New Brunswick; and Clair, Saskatchewan have demonstrated the threats that first responders face when trains with dangerous goods derail. Yet, too many have to face these dangers without adequate training in hazardous materials. 
The Canadian Association of Fire Chiefs has long called for special training to deal with derailments specifically. It calls for this training to be provided in co-operation with the rail companies.
When will the government finally put into a place a comprehensive plan to get firefighters the training they need?
Mr. Speaker, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Canadian Association of Fire Chiefs for being such a great resource. They make sure that, on the advisory council associated with the transportation of dangerous goods, they give the input that is needed. 
We work very closely with firefighters and fire chiefs to ensure that they have the information and the ability to inform the people they work with of the dangers associated with the transportation of dangerous goods. We will continue to work with them, we value their advice, and we will make sure that we keep them as safe as we can.
Mr. Speaker, as a city councillor and MP, I have been advocating for a new border crossing for the Windsor-Detroit corridor. This is crucial for the economy and prosperity of both Canada and the united States, but the current government has negotiated such a poor deal, Canada has to front nearly $1 billion and pay for both countries. Despite a U.S. federal budget of roughly $3.5 trillion, the Conservatives could not even get the United States to pay for their own customs plaza, leaving it all up to Canadians. 
This is more ongoing infrastructure incompetence. How did it come to this?
Mr. Speaker, if the member actually wants to support the Detroit River International Crossing, he should try voting for it for once in the house. We have put forward appropriation after appropriation to make this project a reality, to create 10,000 construction jobs, to use Canadian steel in this project, and the member has stood every time to oppose it. 
He should get on board and should be ashamed of his record.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud of my record, because I voted against bad budgets that left Canadians behind. 
The government is making it up as it goes along. The member said, “We're not building a U.S. customs plaza”. Those are his own words—he can eat them now.
The Prime Minister's press release said that the U.S. plaza is “...the responsibility of the U.S. government.”
Since Canadians have become the sole financier of the project, will the minister come clean and tell Canadians how this will affect tolls. Will Canadians get their money back with interest, and how long will that take?
Mr. Speaker, the member knows that discussions continue with our American partners on their investment in this border crossing. 
But make no mistake about it. In response to every single budget we have put forward with investments to create 10,000 construction jobs, to move the auto industry forward, to ensure that the steel industry gets its steel used in this particular project, everything supporting support jobs and growth in Windsor, that member has voted against. He should be ashamed and voters will tell him so in the next election.
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the minister responsible for foreign affairs.
Ukraine is currently facing significant challenges and requires continued international support. Has the government discussed with the United States or our allies about whether further military support for Ukraine is in fact required?
Mr. Speaker, Canada supports the ambitions of Ukrainians for a free, democratic and prosperous country. We have been supporting them in these efforts.
 We have imposed a broad range of political and economic sanctions, pledging support to help Ukraine stabilize its economy and to promote economic and social development. We have been providing non-lethal security assistance and training for members of the Ukrainian military.
Mr. Speaker, whether flying over a school or a town hall, an embassy abroad or a Canadian Forces base, Canada's flag and the maple leaf are recognized worldwide as the distinctive symbols of Canada's sovereignty and are a source of pride to Canadians.
As we prepare for the upcoming 50th anniversary of our flag, I stand among numerous members who have been active in promoting, in a non-partisan manner, the fundamental role the maple leaf plays in our history.
Would the government inform members of the House of its plans for the promotion of our pennant's upcoming 50th anniversary?
Mr. Speaker, please allow me to thank the member for his devotion to this very important event. 
The 50th anniversary of the national flag of Canada will be celebrated across the country. We will have flag-raising ceremonies in schools in municipalities across the country. The Royal Canadian Mint will be introducing a collectible coin and Canada Post will be introducing special stamps.
 We have also partnered with great organizations, like the Girl Guides of Canada, Scouts Canada and the Royal Canadian Legion, to promote this milestone to thousands of Canadians. There is a CFL partnership coming. There is more to come.
 I hope everyone will celebrate the flag and celebrate who we are as Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, is there anyone responsible for Canada Post in the House?
In mid-December, the municipality of Lac-Saint-Paul lost its post office. A municipal councillor has to travel 16 kilometres back and forth every day to get the municipal mail. His neighbour gets his mail from a community mailbox located at the end of a logging road. Every time he gets out of his vehicle in his wheelchair, he is worried that a loaded truck will come by.
Does the minister believe that the mail delivers itself, just like the Liberals believe that budgets balance themselves?
Mr. Speaker, as I have said many times in the House, Canada Post is an arm's-length independent crown corporation, with the responsibility to ensure it operates on a self-sufficiency basis. In doing so, it needs to ensure that it makes up for the loss of revenues associated with simply fewer letters being delivered in Canada.
As a result, it has a five-point plan. In this five-point plan, it is taking action to ensure that, in the future, Canada Post will be there to serve our needs. 
Mr. Speaker, Canada Post informed my office of a so-called information campaign for the people of my riding who will be getting the new community mailboxes on their property. 
However, Canada Post refuses to provide the list of chosen locations and, worse yet, is not taking the time to consult the property owners. This lack of transparency and real consultation is Canada Post's trademark.
Why is the minister allowing Canada Post to act without consulting the people who are being forced to accommodate a community mailbox on their property?
Mr. Speaker, my understanding from Canada Post is that, indeed, it is consulting with Canadians across Canada.
However, I would like to take the rest of this opportunity to point out that perhaps the NDP members should c