 It being Wednesday, we will now have the singing of O Canada, led by the hon. member for Windsor—Tecumseh.
 [Members sang the national anthem]
Mr. Speaker, Canada's number one magazine, Maclean's, has just published more of the anti-Quebec drivel that we have come to expect from it. 
 According to Maclean's, Quebec is a pathologically alienated and deficient society compared to the rest of Canada. Basically, it lacks social solidarity. We are becoming accustomed to being scorned by Canada and increasingly outraged. Quebec-bashing has become socially acceptable in Canada. No other community could ever be humiliated this way without the House of Commons reacting with shock and outrage. If the author had written that Catholics, the Greek community, or homosexuals, for example, are pathologically alienated, the House would have rightly reacted vigorously and unanimously in the face of such an abuse. However, when Quebec is the victim, it does not matter.
Yesterday the member for La Pointe-de-l'Île moved a motion to condemn Maclean's, but the House rejected it. That move speaks volumes about the respect that federal parliamentarians have for Quebec.
Mr. Speaker, the “Commande un Angelot” campaign is a great initiative.
Designed to protect people from sexual assault in bars, the initiative is based on the success of the “Ask for Angela” and “Angel Shot” campaigns in the U.K. and the U.S., respectively. It is essentially a protocol enabling bar employees to help women and men who feel threatened and need help.
Individuals fearing for their safety simply order an “Angelot” neat, with ice, or with lime depending on how much help they feel they need.
I encourage all of my colleagues to support this initiative by raising awareness in their communities.
Mr. Speaker, this year, 2017, all Canadians from coast to coast to coast will be emphatically united in proudly celebrating the 150th anniversary of our great Confederation. That is why, in the first weeks of my term in Beauport—Limoilou, it was my goal to make sure we organized unique festivities for all to enjoy.
Together with Limoilou en Vrac and Société d'art et d'histoire de Beauport, I am very proud to announce today that there will be two distinct celebrations of Canada's 150 anniversary this summer in my riding. One will be held in Limoilou and the other in Vieux-Beauport. Combining historic celebrations and family activities, each event promises to be exciting. We expect that more than 10,000 people from Beauport—Limoilou will attend. 
In closing, I want to point out that the purpose of these festivities is to celebrate Canada, its strength, courage, dynamism, and tenacity, but especially the extraordinary people who live and work here day after day.
Mr. Speaker, allow me to take a moment to send our thoughts to our colleagues in Britain in Westminster right now who are going through a very scary moment. I extend my deepest sympathy.
I want to take a moment today to acknowledge the Persian new year, Nowruz. 
Nowruz is a great time of renewal celebrated by our fellow citizens of Afghan and Iranian descent and by many other communities in western Asia. It marks the first day of spring.
 Nowruz means “new day”, which upon reflection can be viewed as a fresh start, a second chance, a time to rejuvenate, and a time for hope.
As springtime begins, although it always seems to arrive a few weeks later in Canada, I remain inspired by the positive changes taking shape across our country. I sincerely believe that we live in one of the best countries in the world, a country that never ceases to get stronger and fairer, a country that is boldly focused on the future. To all those celebrating this special day, Eid-eh Shoma Mobarak!
Mr. Speaker, today I would like to highlight the Armenian community's contribution to Canada. There are many Armenian organizations whose contributions strengthen our society. One of them is the Armenian General Benevolent Union, a charitable organization that today is celebrating its 60th anniversary in Canada.
At the very heart of the AGBU we find its community centres, which offer services and activities for all ages and groups, from Bees, who are the youngest Scouts, to sports teams and members of seniors clubs. 
The Saturday school offers children's activities such as dance, painting, and photography.
In the same vein, education is of the utmost importance to the Union. In Montreal, the AGBU supports Alex Manoogian School. In addition to passing on the Armenian culture, this school also responds to crises. For example, Alex Manoogian School warmly welcomes refugees who need to learn French.
 Shnorhagallem. Well done and congratulations to the Armenian General Benevolent Union.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to mention today that my thoughts are with those in London struggling with the tragedy unfolding there at the moment.
I rise today, though, to honour the life and community contributions of Isabella Ferrara, of Vaughan, who suddenly passed away on February 13. Isabella was a social activist and strong advocate for seniors' causes. She believed that an active social life could help provide important supports for many seniors. Her work, both as president of the Pine York Seniors' Club and as founder of SAVI, the Seniors Association of Vaughan Initiative, was instrumental in forging a vibrant, tightly knit, and healthy seniors community in Vaughan.
 In recognition of her significant contribution, Isabella received awards across all levels of government: the Order of Vaughan, the Ontario Senior Achievement Award, and the Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee medal. 
Our thoughts are with Vince, her husband, who was always supportive of her activities, and her family. Isabella Ferrara is an example to us all of a life well lived. Grazie.
Mr. Speaker, our thoughts and prayers are with the British Parliament today as well.
Tomorrow the Drumheller and District Chamber of Commerce will hold its 2017 annual general meeting. I wish the Chamber of Commerce members all the best during their deliberations. 
We know that the citizens of Drumheller and surrounding communities, like many places in our province and country, count on the work of a strong local chamber of commerce. The hard work accomplished by members of local chambers facilitates prosperous businesses and helps provide jobs and economic growth in the communities where they serve.
 It is important for all of us to work together in the current difficult economic times. All across my large and mainly rural riding of Battle River—Crowfoot, the folks in many small towns, villages, and hamlets benefit from the work of our local volunteers, who provide their time and effort in support of their local economies, both large and small. All members of Parliament in the House should make an effort to acknowledge the good work of their local community leaders who contribute to the work of local chambers of commerce.
Mr. Speaker, the Hon. James A. McGrath, former member of the House and eighth lieutenant governor of Newfoundland, passed away on February 28. He was a generous and charismatic figure, and a staunch defender of Newfoundland. 
Jim was born in Buchans in 1932 to a family of 13, and was first elected in 1957 to our riding of St. John's East. In his seven Parliaments, he distinguished himself in countless ways, notably as the minister of fisheries and also by authoring a report on the reform of our House of Commons, a report which led to our Speaker being elected by secret ballot.
In 1986, he accepted an appointment as lieutenant governor of Newfoundland, an office he served until 1991.
 McGrath's devotion to Newfoundland and Labrador and its people continued throughout his life, including support for education and the arts. 
He is survived by his wife Margaret, and three generations of children, some of whom are celebrating with us here today.
I thank the Hon. James McGrath and his family for a lifetime of public service.
Mr. Speaker, the riding of Laval—Les Îles includes a remarkable Hellenic community of more than 11,000 people.
The families who had the courage to immigrate to Canada, to integrate, and to share their cultural heritage contributed to the success of Canada's multiculturalism. The Greek community is inclusive and supportive, and it has built strong ties with members of the broader community where they live. They have contributed to the development of our society as a whole. 
Greek Independence Day is widely celebrated on March 25, and I will be wholeheartedly participating in the celebrations.
Happy Greek Independence Day to the entire Greek community in Laval—Les Îles, Laval, and Canada.
 Zito Hellas!
Mr. Speaker, this year marks the 60th anniversary of the Canadian branch of the Armenian General Benevolent Union. The AGBU in Canada is a member of the worldwide Armenian family, sharing its proud heritage. The AGBU is the world's largest non-profit organization, headquartered in New York City, with an annual budget of around $50 million, made possible by countless benefactors.
Each year, the AGBU is committed to making a difference in the lives of 500,000 people across Armenia, Nagorno-Karabakh, and in the Armenian diaspora. It has an active presence in 31 countries and 74 cities, and addresses the needs of Armenians in traditional and progressive programs worldwide, from schools, scouts, camps, support for the arts, internships, virtual learning, and young professional networks.
 On its 60th anniversary, I want to salute the Armenian General Benevolent Union leadership, its volunteers and benefactors. 
Mr. Speaker, in 1957, the world's largest Armenian non-profit organization, the Armenian General Benevolent Union, set up shop in Montreal. The organization then spent the next 60 years providing exceptional service to the community through educational, cultural, social, sports, and humanitarian programs.
The AGBU is focused on becoming a second home to so many. It offers multi-age, multi-purpose programs and services to not only its own community but also to the community at large.
The Armenian General Benevolent Union has made education one of its top priorities and supports schools, such as the Alex Manoogian school in Montreal.
It has provided French language training and integration services to people from Lebanon, Iraq, Egypt and, more recently, Syria. 
On this occasion, I wish to congratulate the Armenian General Benevolent Union in Canada on its 60th anniversary.
Mr. Speaker, I am honoured to rise in the House today to mark Nowruz, celebrated by 300 million people with cultural roots in western and central Asia. This joyous holiday is a festive occasion that brings together people of different cultures and languages to welcome the spring.
A 3,000-year old tradition, Nowruz is by now also a deeply cherished holiday for thousands of Canadians from coast to coast to coast, including many in my riding of Willowdale. Many in Canada gathered around the haft-seen table to celebrate renewal and the arrival of new beginnings. Allow me to wish them a happy Nowruz.
Also, I certainly hope and trust that today's tabling of a new budget by our government in a few hours will be inspired by the very same Nowruz spirit of renewal. It was the Persians, after all, who introduced banking and finance to the world, which seems fitting to mention today.
Mr. Speaker, it is my honour to rise today on behalf of the Alberta Conservative caucus to congratulate our friend and former colleague, Jason Kenney. Over the weekend, Jason was elected in convincing fashion as the leader of the Alberta PC party. 
First elected to the House in 1997, Jason held many portfolios while he was an MP and cabinet minister, but leader of the Alberta PC party might be the most important position he has ever held.
 Jason has been recognized for his tireless work ethic, and he is one of the strongest and most respected voices within the conservative movement. 
My friends, Brian Jean and Jason, are now tasked with a monumental challenge in uniting the conservative principled parties in Alberta. A task of this magnitude left to lesser individuals might not succeed. Their co-operation, understanding, and dedication to all Albertans will be what puts our province back on track to prosperity, to the benefit of all Canadians. The road may not always be smooth, and there may be disagreements, but the outcome is too important and the stakes are too high.
On behalf of the Alberta Conservative caucus, I want to congratulate Jason on his victory. We stand ready to restore the Alberta advantage.
Mr. Speaker, World Water Day gains in significance every year as it becomes more and more obvious that water, our most precious and live-giving resource, is under increasing pressure, from population growth, overuse, pollution, and the drought and flooding effects of climate change. 
Here in Canada, we are lucky to have an abundance of freshwater. Of course, there are still many challenges to overcome, for example, the fact that first nations and other remote communities are often under boil water advisories and that new contaminants may be getting into our lakes, rivers, and waterways.
Canada is home to a critical mass of expertise in water resource management. World Water Day is an opportunity to remind ourselves that we are a water nation, with a destiny to be a model in freshwater management and a leader in promoting global water security in an increasingly water stressed world.
Mr. Speaker, on International Women's Day, the universe lost a champion of social justice and a staunch advocate for women's rights with the passing of former Vancouver East MP, Margaret Mitchell.
In 1982, Margaret stood in Parliament and brought attention to the shameful reality that 10% of Canadian women were experiencing domestic violence and was laughed at by the men in the House. Unflinching, Margaret responded “That's no laughing matter”. It was a watershed moment that woke the consciousness of Canada. 
She was never afraid to take on issues. Margaret was the first MP who stood in the House demanding the federal government redress the Chinese head tax. She challenged health authorities who wanted to stop the sale of Chinese barbecued pork and duck. Her legacy and fighting spirit will always be felt in Vancouver East.
A condolences book is available. I invite people to share their memories of Margaret with her family and friends. 
Mr. Speaker, as we have heard, there has been an attack on our mother parliament in Great Britain. There are reports of multiple casualties, including a police officer, in what is being considered a terrorist attack.
 While the details are still being confirmed, what is known is that today there has been an attack on democracy. 
Canada and the United Kingdom share many links, bonds, and traditions, including our head of state, our system of government, and now, unfortunately, modern attacks on our parliaments.
The scenes out of London will no doubt bring back dark memories for many of us here in the House today. Our thoughts and prayers are with our colleagues across the Atlantic. We thank the police and the security forces that defend these houses of parliament, those in the U.K., and all houses of democracy around the world. 
Mr. Speaker, it is with great sadness that we learned of today's incident at the parliament of the United Kingdom. It was only last week that I and a delegation of colleagues travelled to London to reaffirm the importance of our long-standing partnership. 
An attack on parliament is an attack on democracy itself. As members of the House know all too well, the democratic institutions of government can be targeted by those who seek to strike fear into the hearts and minds of our citizens. 
While reports are still coming in and details continue to be confirmed, we strongly condemn violence in any form. Canada and the United Kingdom are close friends and allies. We have a shared history, and many of us are bound by family ties. 
As chair of the Canada-United Kingdom Inter-Parliamentary Association, and on behalf of all members of the House, I would like to share our thoughts and prayers with the British people, as well as with our colleagues and friends from the British parliament. We stand with them. 
Mr. Speaker, today in London, the U.K. Parliament is the scene of an attack, an attack all too familiar to many members of the House and those who work here. While there are still many questions yet to be answered around the circumstances, on behalf of the official opposition, I offer my sincere condolences and prayers to all of those who are affected.
Will the Prime Minister join me in condemning these attacks and offer any and all support to our U.K. friends?
Mr. Speaker, I thank the member for her statement and support. We were all saddened to learn about today's incident near the British Parliament in London. I express my deepest condolences to the victims of this cowardly attack. The scene unfolding in London is one that is all too familiar to members of this House who were here two and a half years ago.
Today's attack on the United Kingdom Parliament is an attack on the world's democracies.
An attack on the symbol and the seat of democracy is a cowardly and reprehensible act that we condemn in the strongest terms. Canada and the U.K. are close friends and allies and our message to the citizens of the United Kingdom and our colleagues in the British Parliament is simple: We stand with you.
Mr. Speaker, for decades, Canada has had one of the strongest and most successful immigration and refugee programs in the world. That is because we have detailed laws, passport requirements, borders, and visas, all to ensure that our system is fair and rules based. This actually ensures the integrity and the success of our system.
Will the Prime Minister strongly signal to all those who want to make Canada their home that they must follow the rules?
Mr. Speaker, Canada is extraordinarily fortunate because we have citizens who understand that a strong immigration policy is a benefit to the country, but also requires a rigorous process and protected borders. That is why we are ensuring that all Canadian laws are being followed. We continue to make sure that our police agencies and border services have all the resources they need to deal with situations that arise, as, for example, are arising in Manitoba and in Quebec. We continue to make sure that Canadians are confident that our system is strong and solid.
Mr. Speaker, it was about a year ago the Prime Minister tried to push through changes to Parliament's rules to silence the opposition. That attempt ended in complete failure and he had to back down, but yet, here he is again, at it again, wanting to centralize his power. This time he wants to shut down debate and he only wants to show up for question period one day a week.
Why is the Prime Minister so determined to avoid accountability?
On the contrary, Mr. Speaker, we were pleased to put out a broad discussion paper on how we can make improvements to the functioning of this House of Commons so that members can better hold the government to account, so we can move forward on legislation, so we can make for a better work-life balance for the many individuals in this House with young families. This is so that members can do a better job of working efficiently here in Ottawa while serving their constituents back at home.
I am excited to be launching an open conversation for all members of this House to participate in. I encourage the members opposite to continue to contribute their thoughtful ideas to this process.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister's plan undermines the very principles of responsible and accountable government. The fact that the Prime Minister does not want to show up to answer questions more than once a week shows what little respect he has for Canada's Parliament. As inconvenient as he thinks it is, Parliament is actually the seat of our democracy, and central to that is the role of the opposition. 
Can the Prime Minister explain to us why he is willing to undermine our system of democracy simply to get out of answering tough questions?
Mr. Speaker, I am always pleased to be here in this House to answer tough questions, and easy ones like the member just asked me.
The fact is that we are always looking for ways to improve things, and today, as we reflect upon the seat of democracy in London, the fact is that we are putting forward a broad range of proposals, including one—
 Oh, oh!
Order. I am having trouble hearing the answer. I know members are anxious to hear both the question and the answer. I would ask members to co-operate.
The right hon. Prime Minister has the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I am happy to highlight that we are always open to improvements and ways to be able to hold this government to account. That includes looking at how things are done elsewhere, including in the U.K., where the prime minister has an entire question period devoted to answering questions.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister is proposing to change the rules so he can actually silence the opposition. His plan is to restrict debate, shorten the work week, and limit his attendance at question period to one day a week. No one has ever attempted gutting accountability like this.
I would like to ask him a simple question. What would he have done if former prime minister Stephen Harper had proposed the same thing?
Mr. Speaker, the previous government would not have put out an open discussion paper nor would it have engaged with the opposition in proposed months of discussion in committee on the best way to move forward.
We are happy to be launching an open conversation on how to improve the functioning of this Parliament in a way that meets the needs of Canadian families and Canadian members of Parliament. The fact is we are happy that we are launching in an open way an important conversation that apparently the members opposite really do not want to have.
Mr. Speaker, as is often the case, we did not actually get an answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition. The Prime Minister is going further than Stephen Harper would have ever dared to do in telling Canadians he only wants to show up in question period once a week.
I am going to ask the question again. What would the Prime Minister's reaction have been if Stephen Harper had dared to propose what he is proposing?
Again, Mr. Speaker, the way we are going about this is by opening a discussion, having an open conversation with the members opposite about how to—
 Oh, oh!
Order. I know that the hon. member for St. Albert—Edmonton and others will want to hear both the question and the answer. I am sure they will manage to calm themselves. Members in all parties can listen to what they hear even when they do not like it and not react.
The right hon. Prime Minister.
Mr. Speaker, I wonder about the schoolchildren in the gallery who are wondering how effective this Parliament actually is right now.
We are proposing a way to discuss how to improve the quality of debate and allow the government to be held to account in a thoughtful, responsible way, and this kind of shouting is what they get. That is not worthy of this Parliament. It is not worthy of the people they serve.
Mr. Speaker, with answers like that, we really could replace him with a cardboard cutout, and his peanut gallery would never notice the difference.
If the Prime Minister was serious when he said that he wanted to work with the other parties, will he agree to set up a proportional committee where no party can impose changes solely to their own advantage?
If he is worried about the reaction of the students who are here today, will he act democratically for once in his life?
Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to welcome all the young people in the gallery. We are going to present a budget that will help the middle class and assure its future. That is the type of thing that we should be discussing. The fact that we are proposing—
 Oh, oh! 
Order.
It is possible for members to get their point across without everyone talking at the same time. Members can raise good points, but only one person at a time.
The right hon. Prime Minister.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians are worried about their future. That is why we are pleased to present a budget that invests in their future and that helps the middle class.
I look forward to answering questions about what we are doing for Canadians, because that is what our job requires, that is, serving Canadians to the best of our ability.
 Oh, oh!
I would ask the hon. member for Portneuf—Jacques-Cartier to calm down.
The hon. member for Outremont. 
Mr. Speaker, my question is simple. In the Prime Minister's opinion, what would be an appropriate penalty for ministers who violate the Conflict of Interest Act?
Mr. Speaker, Canadians expect all parliamentarians to have the highest ethical standards and behaviour that is beyond reproach. It is essential that we maintain Canadians' trust and demonstrate an approach that is worthy of the trust that Canadians have in us.
Mr. Speaker, when a minister breaches that trust, what is the penalty? Instead of going around in circles, the Prime Minister would do well to respond soon.
To be clear, Canadians believe that there is no problem with the Prime Minister taking a vacation, but Canadians do have a problem with the Prime Minister accepting illegal gifts, breaking the law, and then charging the taxpayers over $125,000.
Does the Prime Minister honestly believe that paying back a mere $4,000 is enough when he blew over $125,000 of hard-earned taxpayers' money?
Mr. Speaker, as is the custom for previous prime ministers, we repaid the cost of equivalent commercial flights, but for the first time, we actually put in place a system of rules that oversee that because there was never that in previous Parliaments or under previous prime ministers.
The other fact is the RCMP makes determinations on how to protect the prime minister and we will not second-guess the decisions that the RCMP makes.
Mr. Speaker, if he gets his way, we really never will get to second-guess the Prime Minister.
The Prime Minister would put everybody's mind at ease if he would just agree that he will not use his majority to ram through changes to the Standing Orders without all-party consent. Unanimity has always been sought for changes to the rules that divide power between government and opposition. For example, the committee that Jean Chrétien set up to review the Standing Orders had unanimous consent written into its mandate, but the current Prime Minister seems to feel that decades of precedents count for nothing.
Why the fuddle duddle will he not commit to the long-standing practice that we do not change the rules without unanimous consent?
Members know we cannot say indirectly what we cannot say directly. I would encourage them to be judicious in their choice of words.
The hon. government House leader.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to rise to respond to the member's question and to remind all Canadians that we have shared a discussion paper with members of Parliament as well as the public. This government, including myself, respects the work of the committee and I believe that members have the opportunity to have an honest conversation. 
I actually appreciate a lot of the work that the member opposite has done. I know the committee sat late last night and I know that conversation is starting. All we are asking is let us have a constructive conversation to really modernize the way this place works.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister once expressed his admiration for the basic dictatorship of China. Now it turns out he is trying to bring that dictatorship to life right here in Canada. He is trying to avoid any accountability to Canadians by eliminating debate and by giving the Liberals unprecedented control over the House of Commons and its committees. On top of this, he wants to give all his Liberal MPs Fridays off, and it turns out he, himself, only wants to show up to work one day a week. 
Why does the Prime Minister have such a blatant disregard for being held accountable to Canadians?
Mr. Speaker, as I have shared with members in the House as well as with Canadians, our objective has always been to ensure that Parliament is more relevant for Canadians, to ensure that we can make this place more efficient, more predictable, more transparent, and more accountable. That is the purpose of the discussion paper. It is a conversation we would like to have with all colleagues in this place. I am also encouraging Canadians to be part of this conversation. As we all know, this place belongs to Canadians and that is exactly whom we are here to serve.
Mr. Speaker, Canadian workers get up every morning and go to work to earn a living. Now the government is considering cutting back our hours of work here in Ottawa. Spending more and working less: what kind of example is that setting for society? 
Merely thinking up the idea is immoral. The Liberals say this is just a consultation. Can the Liberal government work to create a prosperous Canada? Can the government respect all members and commit to changing the rules only if there is unanimous consent?
Mr. Speaker, our government knows that the work members do here in the House and in their ridings is important.
During the election campaign, we vowed to modernize Parliament and turn it into a 21st-century workplace. Our objective has always been to ensure that Parliament is relevant to Canadians and that the House is accountable, predictable, efficient, and transparent.
Mr. Speaker, the Liberals say they want to make Parliament more predictable. The only thing predictable around here is that the Liberals will do whatever it takes, including rigging the rules, to avoid accountability. Predictably, the Prime Minister only likes to show up to places where it is all selfies, slogans, and superficiality, so when he finds an opposition instead of an audience, he predictably heads for the exit.
Since he loves to be loved, will the Liberal whip demand his MPs start applauding the Prime Minister more often so that he could be predicted to maybe show up here for question period more than once a week?
Mr. Speaker, a discussion paper that I released was made available for members of Parliament as well as Canadians. I believe it is a reasonable discussion paper, encouraging members in this place to have a conversation, to have a discussion. The member opposite is misrepresenting the document, as there are many ideas being shared. We would like to see people actually having a thoughtful conversation where we can have opposing views but really come to modernizing this place and bringing it into the 21st century.
Mr. Speaker, the government House leader introduced a discussion paper, and then mere days later tried to ram that, and is currently ramming that discussion paper, through Parliament. 
This is not a discussion. This is not a conversation. This is a dictatorship.
 I implore the House leader. I implore the government. All we are asking for is that we all be able to come to agreement, as precedent has set, before any major changes are made. I am asking the government to reset this horrid mess it has created and listen to all of us before any changes are made.
Mr. Speaker, it is a discussion paper, and I encourage all members, as well as the public, to read it in its entirety. There are many great ideas, and we are asking the committee to actually broaden the scope of its study. We know that many ideas have already been presented. I have made myself part of that conversation. 
Every single member of Parliament is here to do important work for Canadians. We would like to make this place more relevant to Canadians, and I am sure all members would agree that we can work better together.
Mr. Speaker, this is unbelievable. There can only be one conclusion drawn. 
This a quote with which I am sure the Prime Minister is very familiar: “Solutions to important problems are decided not by Party committee...but by one individual”. Do members know who said that? It was Chinese dictator Chairman Mao. 
Canada is not China. Canada is not a dictatorship. The Prime Minister is not the supreme emperor, so maybe he could do Canadians a favour, take another vacation, and not come back until he is ready to stop acting like those dictators he so admires.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians elected—
 Oh, oh!
Order. Order—
 Oh, oh!
 Order.
The member for Grande Prairie—Mackenzie will come to order. I have heard lots of members yelling and heckling, and I have heard enough of it. The hon. government House leader has the floor. 
 Oh, oh!
 Order. This question period could be a lot shorter if it is not quiet. 
Order. The Speaker can only see so much, folks, and I can only put up with so much, and I am looking in all directions.
The hon. government House leader has the floor. We will have some order.
Mr. Speaker, I do believe that this is actually demonstrating more of a reason why this conversation and discussion is necessary. 
Every single member of Parliament is elected by their constituents to represent their voice in this place. It is important for us to have these conversations so that we can better serve the Canadians that we are here to represent. These are tough conversations, I agree, but I think they are important conversations for us to have, and that is why I released a discussion paper not only for members of Parliament but for the public to also participate in so that we can have the important conversations that we need to have.
Mr. Speaker, in an unprecedented act, the federal government is dropping its judicial case against 36 individuals arrested in the largest anti-Mafia sting since the Rizzuto case. Thanks to Liberal dithering, serious criminal charges are being either stayed or withdrawn. 
Is this the reason that the Liberal government is abandoning this case? Is the Minister of Justice going to throw six years of anti-Mafia investigations in the trash because they refuse to provide proper resources to our justice system?
Mr. Speaker, decisions such as this are made by the Public Prosecution Service, which is independent of government. I will say that there are still charges pending in this case. 
Further to that, I will use this opportunity to again talk about the reforms that we are making and the comprehensive review of the criminal justice system that we are undertaking, including sentencing reform and looking at bail reform. We introduced an open and transparent process for judges to ensure public safety, respect for victims, and respect for the charter. I look forward to continuing this work.
Mr. Speaker, budget day brings with it high expectations about the future of thousands of jobs in the softwood lumber sector in the Saguenay and across Quebec.
We are still waiting for the government to share information about its plan for the forestry industry. The government has a unique opportunity to show that it is taking the possibility of a trade war with the United States seriously by proposing a plan B that involves loan guarantees.
Will the government step up once and for all and show that it is ready to act on behalf of workers in Saguenay—Lac-Saint-Jean and Quebec?
Mr. Speaker, as I said yesterday, we recognize the importance of Canada's forestry sector. We have initiated a very good dialogue with the provinces that could be affected by new measures. We will absolutely have a plan to work together to protect jobs in this country. Canadians can count on us. 
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister thinks he is elected royalty and Canadians should lavish him with exotic island vacations, nannies, and a jet-setting lifestyle. The Prime Minister spent $127,000 on his island excursion with the famjam and his BFFs. Seventeen hundred dollars were spent on food and drinks alone for a three-hour flight. There are people in my riding who are struggling to pay the mortgage, but the Prime Minister thinks he is entitled to his caviar and champagne.
Why does this wealthy trust-fund Prime Minister think he can abuse taxpayers' dollars entertaining himself this way?
Mr. Speaker, as was the case for previous prime ministers, including the former prime minister, for security reasons the RCMP accompanies the Prime Minister, whether for personal or business purposes. It was this government that recognized that there was not a policy in place and asked the Clerk of the Privy Council office to help set some guidelines.
I would also like to remind the member that it was this government that lowered taxes on middle-class Canadians by increasing taxes on the wealthiest 1% of Canadians. Conservatives voted against that measure, but I am sure the member would agree that the middle-class tax cut has benefited hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, it is no wonder the Prime Minister only wants to be here one day a week. When someone thinks he is elected royalty, he does not have to work, and the average Canadian can pick up the tab for caviar and champagne, but when the Prime Minister wants to fire up the old Challenger, jet off to an island, and get away to entertain his friends, he just pulls out the old taxpayer credit card.
Can the Prime Minister justify to Canadians why they are on the hook for his $127,000 vacation and his $1,700 snack bill?
Mr. Speaker, it is this government that lowered taxes on middle-class Canadians by increasing taxes on the wealthiest 1% of Canadians. It was this government that introduced the Canada child benefit to help families with children who need help the most, to ensure that they get the most. It was this government that took unprecedented levels of public consultation so that we could respond to the very real challenges that Canadians are facing.
In regard to the member's question, when we took office, there were no guidelines in place. One of the first things we did was ask the Clerk of the Privy Council office to put guidelines in place, and we will continue to do the good work Canadians expect us to do.
Mr. Speaker, it is not just a question of role and money. It is a question of principle and honour, and the government has none.
A prime minister must adhere to three guiding principles: he must show humility, show restraint, and manage finances carefully.
When will this Prime Minister finally act with honour, lead by example, and stop wasting Canadians' money?
Mr. Speaker, what exactly was the protocol for previous prime ministers, including the former prime minister? 
The RCMP always accompanies the Prime Minister when he travels, whether for business or pleasure.
One of the first things we did was ask the Clerk of the Privy Council to put guidelines in place regarding the travel expenses of the sitting Prime Minister, his family, and their guests.
Mr. Speaker, I am interested to know how much the finance minister will put in the budget for the Prime Minister's future vacations to billionaire islands. 
We just learned it cost taxpayers $127,000 the last time, and that is before we add the cost of the Ethics Commissioner's investigation. When will the Prime Minister realize that real Canadians are struggling to make ends meet, and they cannot afford, and do not want to pay for, his lavish lifestyle?
Mr. Speaker, Canadians elected our government on a plan to grow the economy and strengthen the middle class, and we are delivering on that very commitment. 
Over the last six months, almost 220,000 jobs were created, the majority of which were full-time jobs. This is the strongest six months of job growth in almost a decade. This is evidence that the plan we have put in place is working. 
We will continue to make the necessary investments in budget 2017 to continue to strengthen the middle class and those working hard to join it and to create the conditions for growth of our economy.
Mr. Speaker, the Liberals love to talk up the Canada child benefit. It was supposed to help nine million children out of poverty, but in my riding, there are many families that have to jump through one hoop after another just to submit a claim. What good is a benefit if families that really need it are not getting it? 
How many eligible parents have yet to receive the Canada child benefit, and when will the government shift its priorities from protecting the wealthiest to making life more affordable for all Canadians?
Mr. Speaker, all members of the House were delighted with the introduction of the Canada child benefit, which is the most important social policy innovation in a generation. It is because we are not sending benefits and cheques to families of millionaires anymore that we are able to help nine families out of 10, families with six million children across Canada who receive on average $200 per month, non-taxable, unlike the earlier inequitable tax system. 
Mr. Speaker, the Service alimentaire communautaire, the SAC, has been providing a unique food assistance program to the families of Salaberry-de-Valleyfield since 2001. It may have to close its doors in June, leaving many vulnerable families with nowhere to turn unless the federal government takes urgent action. 
A letter was sent to the minister one month ago, but the organization and my constituents have not received a response. A growing number of families in the region are having difficulty putting food on the table. Last December alone, the use of food banks skyrocketed following a 300% increase in demand.
When will the minister take action?
Mr. Speaker, the government was elected because it promised to grow the economy and the middle class and to help more Canadians join the middle class. With that in mind, today's budget will introduce an even more solid program to make our society more inclusive and to ensure that Canadian families that are struggling have a better chance to flourish and succeed.
I would ask the member to listen very carefully to what will be said in just a few minutes.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians are proud that their government takes openness and transparency seriously. They appreciate the fact that their government gets them involved in finding solutions to their problems.
Now, it is the international community's turn to demonstrate its confidence in Canada's leadership and openness.
 Can the minister explain to the House Canada's new role on the global stage, now that we have been elected to a seat on the steering committee of the Open Government Partnership?
Mr. Speaker, I am proud that Canada was elected by its international partners to hold one of the four seats on the steering committee of the Open Government Partnership.
The Open Government Partnership is an international organization that brings together 75 countries and hundreds of civil society organizations. We are going to help promote the global movement towards more open and accountable government. 
Mr. Speaker, the Minister of National Defence has been playing fast and loose with the truth. First, there was the Liberals' fabricated fighter jet capability gap, which is really a Liberal credibility gap. Then the minister put an unprecedented gag order on DND officials and stifled debate right here in Parliament. Now the defence minister says it was not him who cut danger pay from our troops fighting ISIS, but I have a document right here with his signature on it that proves that it was.
Will the minister come clean and apologize for misleading Canadians, or is he going to double down on his alternate facts?
Mr. Speaker, I understand that the member opposite might be feeling a bit of guilt from the time when he was the parliamentary secretary sending our troops overseas without the tax exemption. That was his original question from yesterday. As I told him very openly, we looked at the problem in February 2016 and sent a letter to the finance minister  to get this changed. There are rules that were placed in 2014 that we are now reviewing so that we can make sure that when we send troops, they do not have to deal with this issue ever again. 
Mr. Speaker, when I was a young officer in the army, I was taught to be honest, but from what I can see, not everyone received that training.
The minister distorts the facts whenever it suits him. He has made up a capability gap because that will allow him to purchase Super Hornets and please his friends at Boeing. Secondly, to justify the fact that he has not done anything to improve protection for cadets, he is saying that they no longer handle weapons, even though many cadet corps participate in shooting competitions.
Will the minister stop misleading the House and apologize?
Mr. Speaker, I am proud of my service in the Canadian Armed Forces as a reservist. I am proud of my combat time.
 Every time I make a decision, it is about thinking about when I had boots on the ground. That is how I will take every future decision.
Mr. Speaker, at festivals and events, at consulates and the Canadian embassy in the U.S., cardboard cut-outs of the Prime Minister have started appearing. Much like the real-life version of the Prime Minister, there were plenty of selfies but not much in the way of substance. The cut-outs are so vain that the Prime Minister probably thinks a certain Carly Simon song was about him.
When Canadian seniors and families are paying for the Liberals' tax-and-spend agenda, who thought a cut-out was a good idea, and how much did it cost? What was the Prime Minister thinking?
Mr. Speaker, the promotional item in question was at the discretion of our missions in the United States. The missions have been asked to no longer use these for their events.
Regardless, under this government, Canada is re-engaging in the world to champion the values Canadians hold dear, both here and abroad. This includes taking all opportunities to engage with our international counterparts, including the United States, Canada's partner and ally.
Mr. Speaker, it turns out that the cut-outs became an international embarrassment to the Liberals because of inappropriate things people were doing and posting on social media.
Global Affairs ordered the life-sized effigies taken down, as Liberals knew that they were tarnishing the Prime Minister's celebrity persona. Now the government is refusing to tell Canadians how much they cost.
In just over an hour, Canadians will find out how much more will be lifted from their wallets to pay for frivolous and out-of-control Liberal spending.
Who authorized this half-baked idea, and what were they smoking?
Mr. Speaker, I will reply in our other official language this time.
 The use of the promotional item in question was at the discretion of our Canadian missions in the United States. They have been asked to no longer use it for their events.
Regardless, under this government, Canada is re-engaging in the world to champion Canadian values. This includes taking all opportunities to engage with our international counterparts, including the United States, our international friend and ally.
Mr. Speaker, the Calgary Olympic bid exploration committee is making plans to include Banff's Lake Louise ski area in its 2026 bid. Putting the Olympic Games in Canada's oldest national park would require expanding the resort into protected natural areas. The environment minister has been silent on whether she would permit Olympic expansion in this UNESCO world heritage site.
Will she stand today and firmly reject any further development in Banff National Park?
Mr. Speaker, Canada has a rich and proud history of hosting both the Olympic and Paralympic Games. Any bid from any city and province will definitely be looked at within the context of this submission, including under our international hosting sports strategy and policy. We will make a decision once we have all the information, once we have government guarantees, and certainly taking into consideration where this event is supposed to be hosted.
Mr. Speaker, four months ago, a South Korean cargo ship lost 35 containers at sea, and potentially harmful debris is still arriving every day on Vancouver Island's west coast. Large pieces of metal and chunks of styrofoam are contaminating our sensitive ecosystems. 
The Liberal government continues to delay and refuses to act. Community volunteers have been forced to start cleanup efforts themselves. Now we learn that the government received $72,000 from the company to clean up the mess, but it still has not released the funds. Will the government finally step up, do its job, and clean up the mess?
Mr. Speaker, occasionally incidents such as this do happen, and we have made it clear to the owner of the ship that it is responsible for the cleanup, and we will make sure that it does happen.
Mr. Speaker, the spectacle in the House today was not a good one for the Prime Minister. He was there laughing and heckling and over-talking the Conservative House leader when she was trying to make a pertinent point about the future of parliamentary democracy in this country. The Prime Minister treats this chamber as his personal chew toy. 
We are going to stand in our place, we are going to fight for democracy, and we are going to fight for Canadians' rights. When is the Prime Minister going to be on our side and live up to his promises in the last election, rather than throwing it all out the window for his own personal gain?
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate once again the opportunity to rise in the House to talk about the important discussion paper I presented to members of Parliament as well as the public. An important conversation needs to take place. It is important that we read the document in its entirety.
 I remember when I was growing up that I talked about change and the importance of change. I remember a good friend of mine saying to me that change starts with me. Every single one of us has a responsibility to Canadians t