It being Wednesday, we will now have the singing of O Canada, led by the hon. member for Windsor West.
[Members sang the national anthem]
Since today is the final allotted day for the supply period ending March 26, 2019, the House will go through the usual procedures to consider and dispose of the supply bills. In view of recent practices, do hon. members agree that the bills be distributed now?
 Agreed.
Mr. Speaker, the latest budget deficit is massive, and Ottawa expects Quebeckers to foot the bill for spending that does not meet their needs.
There is no money to reimburse Quebec for the $300 million it has spent on the reception and integration of asylum seekers. There is no money to increase health transfers, which is Quebeckers' top priority. There is no money for the blue line or high-frequency rail in the Quebec City-Windsor corridor. Even new spending leaves Quebec out in the cold.
Ottawa says it will fund rural high-speed Internet, but not until 2030. Ottawa announced compensation for dairy farmers, but there is nothing allocated in the budget.
Once again, the Canadian government has found ways to drive Quebeckers deeper into debt without even addressing their priorities. We could talk about this all day.
Clearly, Quebeckers are not getting what they need from Ottawa.
Mr. Speaker, over the span of 130 years, 150,000 indigenous children were forcibly taken from their parents and placed in Indian residential schools. The goal was to assimilate them into Canadian society and make them forget their culture and their history.
Today, I will be voting in favour of Bill C-369, which seeks to designate September 30 as a national day for truth and reconciliation. The date was chosen to coincide with Orange Shirt Day, which was created by Phyllis Webstad and Joan Sorley. I want to thank them for their leadership, and I also want to thank the member for Desnethé—Missinippi—Churchill River for introducing this vitally important bill.
Mr. Speaker, I invite everyone to join the Canadian Down Syndrome Society in celebrating World Down Syndrome Day tomorrow, March 21. World Down Syndrome Day is observed on March 21 to increase public awareness about Down syndrome, a congenital disorder caused by having an extra 21st chromosome. It is my hope that someday March 21, World Down Syndrome Day, will be as popular as Terry Fox Day.
On my Twitter, I have re-posted a video of a boy named Christopher sitting at a table about to have lunch. Christopher has Down syndrome. Asked if he is bothered by having Down syndrome, Christopher has the perfect answer when he says, “No. Why?”
Tragically, most children with Down syndrome will never get old enough to answer this question, because up to 85% of pregnancies with this disorder are never allowed to come to term. Imagine if we had a truly inclusive and just society, one where children with Down syndrome were valued and supported.
Mr. Speaker, today is the International Day of La Francophonie, a day to celebrate the vitality of the world's francophone community. In Alberta, that community is alive and well. The Franco-Albertan community, like many others, is thriving and growing every year. 
Our investments are making a difference. Over 30% of children in Alberta are now registered in French-language programs. Thanks to the strength of francophone organizations in Alberta, such as Radio-Canada, the Cité francophone and the Regroupement artistique francophone de l'Alberta, more Albertans can live in French every day.
Our francophone community is at the heart of our identity, and our investment in that community will continue to attract francophone immigrants to Canada.
As a proud Franco-Albertan, here is what I have to say to all those who are watching at home: Whether you are francophone, francophile, “franco-curious” or “franco-queer”, the francophonie and the International Day of La Francophonie are for you.”
Mr. Speaker, French is often defined by its vocabulary and grammar, which can be difficult, but it is so much more than that. French may be our language, but it is also our culture, expressed through our poetry, literature and music. It is alive with expressions, regionalisms and imagery, and it is steeped in history. 
Language is more than just a way to express ourselves; it also defines how we view the world. It gives us a different awareness, a unique perspective of our environment. The French language gives us incredible opportunities to access far-off places united by a rich tapestry of history and culture.
The NDP supports francophone minority communities across Canada in defending their distinctive character and their right to receive quality services in their language. All francophones share a love of this sweet, beautiful language that makes us so proud.
I rise today to wish everyone a happy International Day of La Francophonie. As Michel Rivard said, may it live forever, and may it never be forgotten.
Mr. Speaker, on this International Day of La Francophonie, I would like to acknowledge an important event, namely the 50th anniversary of the Société de la francophonie manitobaine, the SFM. In 1916, the Association d'éducation des Canadiens français du Manitoba, the AECFM, was founded in the wake of the Thornton Act prohibiting French as a language of instruction. This was one of many statutes that were since deemed unconstitutional. The AECFM laid the foundation for our SFM, which was officially founded in 1968 with a mandate that extends beyond education to every sector affecting the lives of francophones.
Today, our community is growing thanks to strong organizations that support our diverse francophonie, which includes francophones, francophiles, Métis and newcomers. I am proud to be one of the 110,000 members of that community.
Long live our Manitoban francophonie!
Mr. Speaker, this past Sunday, I was honoured to join in the celebration of life for Mr. Harry Watts, along with Canadians from every province and territory, hundreds altogether. I am deeply grateful and humbled to have known him as a dear friend. 
Harry served Canada during World War II as a motorcycle dispatch rider; he delivered messages that were top secret and too sensitive to be sent by way of telegraph or telephone. His book, The Dispatch Rider, sold over 4,000 copies, and all profits were donated to charities. One of his favourite charities that he supported was National Service Dogs, which helps provide dogs to children with autism and to veterans suffering from PTSD.
Harry lived every day to the fullest during his over 95 years of life. Harry's love of God and his strong faith sustained him right to the day of his physical death on March 10, 2019.
I would like to thank Harry's family for sharing him with all of us. They are in our prayers as they journey through this valley of loss and grief. 
We will remember him.
Mr. Speaker, happy International Day of La Francophonie.
Whether we live in Ottawa—Vanier or Vancouver, Abidjan or Hanoi, let us celebrate the French language and the diversity and richness of our francophone culture. Despite the tensions and the language crisis in Ontario and even in New Brunswick, we must reaffirm the importance of the French language and its place in our society, and let the new generations pick up the torch.
We should be proud to be among the 300 million French speakers around the world and the significant economic, social and cultural capital they represent. Today and in the future, we must continue to take action to strengthen our laws and policies and to invest in the sustainability of our official languages. This will stimulate our economy, promote trade and help enhance the leadership, prestige and influence of Canada's diplomatic efforts around the world. 
Mr. Speaker, today is the International Day of La Francophonie, and it is an honour for me, and all Acadians, to talk about official language minority communities across this big, beautiful country.
The Minister of Tourism, Official Languages and La Francophonie recently announced consultations on plans to modernize the Official Languages Act, which just makes sense, since this act is now 50 years old. This legislation is in dire need of a facelift, considering the reality facing our minority language communities, whether we are talking about anglophones living in Quebec or francophones living in Acadia and across the country, of course. 
I remind members that no law can be effective if the institutions meant to enforce it ignore their obligations. Let us enact clear official languages legislation and let us have the good sense and political will to enforce it properly.
To my fellow Canadians, here's to our Official Languages Act.
Mr. Speaker, today, we are celebrating the International Day of La Francophonie. 
French is a noble language with a rich vocabulary, and its complexity is living proof of its strength and history. Let us not forget that French is the language of Molière, Voltaire, Montesquieu and Georges-Étienne Cartier. The International Day of La Francophonie is an important one, not only for the international community, but also for our great bilingual federation, Canada.
As Prime Minister Harper always said, Canada, as a political entity, was first founded by French speakers. Today, over 11 million francophones are living and thriving in our magnificent country. Over 300 million people around the world speak French and that number will grow to over 700 million by 2050.
It is important to point out that Canada is the one that pushed the French government to establish the Organisation internationale de la Francophonie in the 1970s. We are one of the organization's founding members, and we must continue to play a leadership role in that organization in the coming years. Long live the Francophonie.
Mr. Speaker, today we are celebrating the International Day of La Francophonie. This is an opportunity to remember that Canada's vibrant francophonie extends from coast to coast to coast.
In West Nova, most of the people living in and around Argyle and Clare are Acadian, and they communicate in French every day. They are proud of their language and culture.
I am privileged to serve them as their MP in a Liberal government that will always stand up for our official languages.
Conservative governments in Ontario and New Brunswick are attacking our francophone institutions, but our government is implementing a historic plan to invest in education, infrastructure, early childhood education, and other sectors that will ensure the vitality of our francophone communities.
I wish all francophones and francophiles a happy International Day of La Francophonie.
Mr. Speaker, today is International Day of La Francophonie, a day when all Canadians gather to celebrate francophone cultures. 
It is the 50th anniversary of the Official Languages Act, which continues to illustrate the importance of Canada's linguistic duality.
Let us continue to welcome francophone tourists in their official language during their visit. Tourism operators in my region are always looking for bilingual employees, especially in the summer. What a great summer job opportunity for our students.
In my riding, Port-au-Port is the cradle of the francophonie on the island of Newfoundland. The people of Port-au-Port are Acadian and French descendants who are now proud Franco-Newfoundlanders.
Let us all celebrate francophone cultures together.
Mr. Speaker, the facts are clear about the Prime Minister and the SNC-Lavalin affair.
First, he interfered in a criminal prosecution that led to the attorney general stepping down from cabinet. A week later, Gerald Butts resigned from the PMO over this scandal. A week after that, the Treasury Board minister resigned in support of the former attorney general. Just this week, we saw the resignation of the Clerk of the Privy Council, as Liberal MPs joined in the corruption by not allowing the former attorney general to tell her full story.
The OECD has raised its concern about corruption over this sordid scandal. Even worse, the Liberals on the justice committee have now shut down further inquiries into this matter and the Prime Minister has lawyered up. He has denied from the start that there was anything wrong and is now saying that there is nothing more to see here. So much for transparency.
Here is the bottom line. The Prime Minister thinks he can distract from this corruption with an election year budget, but Canadians are not buying it.
Mr. Speaker, my riding, Egmont, has the largest francophone community on Prince Edward Island. As an Acadian descendant, Évangéline is part of my history. As her MP, I am pleased to speak French in the House for the first time in a long time to wish everyone a good National Francophonie Week.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to acknowledge the many women who have reached out to me and my NDP colleagues from coast to coast to coast. These women are appalled by the Prime Minister's treatment of the first indigenous woman to serve as Attorney General. 
The former attorney general stood up to the most powerful man in Canada, the Prime Minister, who was asking her to do something wrong. She did not change her mind and she lost her job because of it. Now she is being silenced and cannot tell her full story. Unfortunately far too many women can relate.
Women know what it is like to fight twice as hard to prove themselves and have their decisions disrespected by men desperate to hold on to power and eager to let women take the blame for their actions instead of accepting responsibility.
Canadian women are watching. They see the difference between people calling themselves a feminist and actively working to support women, not control them.
I am a proud New Democrat, and we value the contributions of women in this place. We will always work to amplify their voices. We will never suppress them. 
Mr. Speaker, it is clear that the Prime Minister breached the unwritten constitution. He told the former attorney general he did not want SNC-Lavalin to go to trial. When he did not get what he wanted, he replaced her with a new Attorney General, who he thought would do what he wanted. It is as simple as that.
It is this legislature, its committees and parliamentary parties that are supposed to hold the Prime Minister, the head of the executive branch of government, accountable for a violation of the unwritten constitution. But that has not happened. This House and its committees have not adopted a motion of censor, have not adopted a motion of contempt and have not adopted any other reprimand to the Prime Minister.
Therefore, for members of the House who still have confidence in the Prime Minister, I say this. I respect their decision, but surely, at minimum, we can all agree on the need to uphold our constitutional order. That should be begin with a reprimand of the Prime Minister through a motion that does exactly that.
Mr. Speaker, today is the International Day of La Francophonie. Millions of people around the globe speak French, but only one wrote the most beautiful songs of the century in that language. He promotes a culture of peace and non-violence from coast to coast to coast. Today I want to highlight the extraordinary genius of Yves Duteil.
As Yves Duteil sings in La langue de chez nous:It is a beautiful language with splendid wordsWhose history can be traced in its variationsWhere we feel the music and smell the herbsGoat's cheese and wheat bread...It tells us that in that far-off country of snow It faced the winds blowing from all directions To impose its words even in the schools And that our own language is still spoken there ...And from Île d'Orléans to Contrescarpe Listening to the people of this country singIt sounds like the wind moving over a harpAnd composing a whole symphony
Mr. Speaker, Canadians were shocked and appalled when the Prime Minister shut down the justice committee's investigation into the SNC-Lavalin corruption scandal. Serious questions remain unanswered and key players in this affair have yet to testify.
My question therefore is for the chair of the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics. Could he inform the House if the future agenda of the committee will include an investigation of this matter?
Mr. Speaker, I have received letters from three members of the ethics committee requesting an investigation into this matter. I can confirm, as chair of the ethics committee, that this investigation is in order.
As always, members are welcome to submit witnesses. Any members of the public who have information of wrongdoing that may help with an investigation can come forward and submit it to the ethics committee without fear.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has just learned that the ethics committee has opened an investigation into his corruption scandal. Will he commit, right here and right now, to co-operate fully with this investigation and to appear and testify?
Mr. Speaker, I want to start by wishing all my colleagues and all Canadians a happy International Day of La Francophonie.
This government understands how important the work done by committees is. We on this side of the House will always respect the committees, always co-operate with them, and always let them do their work independently of the government. 
Mr. Speaker, that is false. He used his majority to block the investigation by the Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights.
We have just learned that the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics will investigate the corruption scandal.
Once again, will the Prime Minister confirm to this House that he will co-operate and agree to testify before the committee?
Mr. Speaker, one thing that the Conservatives have not learned, or forgot while in power for 10 years, is that committees and members of parliamentary committees are independent and make their own decisions. Naturally, this government, the Liberal Party, will always respect the independence of committee work, and we will always abide by the decisions of these committees.
Mr. Speaker, nobody is buying that. We all know that the Prime Minister sent in his members of that justice committee to shut it down. They allowed their preferred witnesses to speak more than once, but then when it came to listening to the former attorney general complete her testimony, they blocked the investigation.
They have also refused to allow Katie Telford, the Prime Minister's chief of staff; Mathieu Bouchard, the PM's special Quebec adviser; and the Minister of Finance and his chief of staff to appear.
Now that the ethics committee is launching an investigation, will those individuals be allowed to testify?
Mr. Speaker, it is not up to the Leader of the Opposition or the Prime Minister to decide what the committees will do. 
Committees are masters of their own agenda and they will make their own decisions. For 10 years, we saw the Conservatives, under Harper, do all they could to control committees. However, on this side of the House we respect the independence of committees. We know that committee members make their own decisions.
That is a principle of our democracy that we respect but that they disregard.
Mr. Speaker, again, nobody is buying it. He can stop pretending. We all know that he sent his members in to block the investigation of the justice committee. He did so, knowing that there were more details to come out. 
The former attorney general wrote, “These matters are still unfolding, and further clarity and information is needed.” For Canadians to hear the whole truth, they need to hear additional testimony and this investigation has to continue.
Once again, will he allow the ethics committee to conduct a full and public investigation into his corruption scandal?
Mr. Speaker, once again, we respect the committees. They will make their own decisions about what they want to do, and we will co-operate with them.
The Conservatives clearly do not want to talk about the economy or about the issues that matter to Canadians. Yesterday we presented a budget that shows we listened to Canadians. It shows that we know how to invest in the middle class and in the community. The Conservatives have no plan for the economy, which is why they are trying to distract Canadians and play politics.
We will stay focused on Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, instead of listening to Canadians and bringing down the cost of prescription drugs, the Liberal Prime Minister gives powerful insiders special access to get what they want. When Canadians start asking questions about just where his priorities actually lie, he dodges and dismisses. He refuses to come clean. Now the Liberals have shut down the justice committee investigation to get to the truth. Maybe we will have an ethics committee look at it.
Will the Prime Minister guarantee that Canadians will hear from everyone involved before the next election?
Mr. Speaker, I want to wish my hon. colleague a happy International Day of La Francophonie. I also want to remind him that the rules of the House allow for committees to set their own agendas and to decide what they will do. It is not up to party leaders to tell committees what to do. On this side of the House, we respect the independence of our committees and we always will.
As for pharmacare, we are very proud of the $500 million we have allocated to help families dealing with rare diseases pay for their medications.
Mr. Speaker, this proves once again why we need a public inquiry.
Canadians pay, on average, $1,300 for health care. The Prime Minister had an opportunity yesterday to reduce costs for Canadians by creating a universal public pharmacare program. What did he do instead? He decided to buy some time for wealthy drug companies.
Why did the Prime Minister decide to put rich corporations and their profits first, rather than Canadians and their pocketbooks?
Mr. Speaker, that is not at all what we did. We understand that no Canadian should be forced to decide between medicine and food.
With the budget we tabled yesterday, we are laying the foundation for a national pharmacare program. We are creating the Canadian drug agency. With the provinces and territories, the agency will negotiate drug prices for all Canadians, and this will reduce costs by as much as $3 billon a year.
We are also investing $500 million to create a national strategy for high-cost drugs used to treat rare diseases. We are helping Canadians. 
Mr. Speaker, of course the Liberal budget does not reflect Canadians' housing and pharmacare needs. While people were looking for help, the Prime Minister spent the past year helping his rich friends and defending his own political interests.
Why is the Prime Minister working only for his friends rather than making the real changes people need?
Mr. Speaker, I am very happy to have an opportunity to talk about our historic investments in housing. We are making major investments to help Canadians find affordable housing.
Our new first-time home buyer incentive will make it more affordable for first-time home buyers to own their own home. It will lower their monthly mortgage payments.
We also increased funding for the rental construction financing initiative, which will help to build thousands of new housing units.
We knew that Canada required federal leadership on housing, and we have been living up to that challenge for the past three years.
Mr. Speaker, this budget had the Liberals' powerful friends covered, but it was a missed opportunity to listen to Canadians who cannot afford a place to live. For people who are waiting, every delay hurts. Wait-lists for co-op housing are decades long. Hundreds of people are standing in line for new rentals when they become available. It is not too late for the government to do right by people. 
Will the Liberal government build half a million new affordable homes now?
Mr. Speaker, we have been investing in housing for three years now, including through our $40-billion national housing strategy.
We are building housing in co-operation with indigenous communities. We are building and renovating housing in urban areas. We are helping people by creating more affordable rental housing.
We know that there is still work to be done. That is why we proposed an innovative measure to help first-time home buyers.
Investing in housing is exactly what we are doing.
Mr. Speaker, what has become abundantly clear with this cover-up is that the Prime Minister is nothing but a fake feminist. This all started when the good old boys at SNC-Lavalin were caught bribing and spending money on prostitutes and then the Prime Minister and his good old boys said to them, “Don't worry, we'll take care of it.” However, then a woman, the former attorney general, said no to the good old boys and she was promptly fired and silenced.
Why is the Prime Minister silencing women of principle while covering up for the actions of his corrupt friends?
Mr. Speaker, we have nothing to learn from the Conservatives about standing up for women's rights in this country. We have been investing in women's equality from day one, with our gender-balanced budget and our unequivocal defence of women's reproductive rights. Investing in women, in equality and in pay equity will always be a priority for us.
The Conservatives are still against abortion, whereas we will always defend women's rights.
Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister is really good at yelling and screaming at women, as the member for Whitby knows. He is also a very good actor. However, he is a fake feminist. We know that after the principled resignation of the former president of the Treasury Board, another good old boy, the Minister of Finance, said she just quit because she was good friends with the former attorney general and that is just what girls do.
Why is the Prime Minister and his friends thinking it is so much easier to silence women and—
Order.
Members will know that members have 35 seconds to ask a question and the same to answer it. Members know there is much too much talk in the House, particularly during answers, and occasionally there is a bit during questions, but there should not be either. Neither should occur. Members on both sides should show respect for the rules and traditions of this place. I appreciate very much the hon. members' interest in the question of decorum.
The right. hon. Prime Minister.
Mr. Speaker, it is pretty rich for the Conservative Party to be lecturing us about standing up for women's rights. That party still refuses to defend a woman's right to choose. That is yet another outdated position they will have to reconsider.
We will always stand up for women's rights. We will always invest in the advancement of women, not only because it is the right thing to do, but also because it is smart economics. We are going to build a stronger economy with women, instead of putting them in a corner.
Mr. Speaker, we know that the Prime Minister likes to just say that women have experienced interactions with him differently. Boy, where have we heard that one before? However, we know what the Liberal member for Whitby said. She had an experience where the Prime Minister phoned her and screamed at her so loudly her husband could hear it through the phone.
Why is it that the Prime Minister cannot see that when he silences women, yells and screams at them and says that their experiences are just different perspectives, he is demeaning all women and showing what a fake feminist he is?
Mr. Speaker, I would love to see the Leader of the Opposition try to prove he is a better feminist than I am. It would be great for our democracy if the Leader of the Opposition decided to stand up for women and stop voting against budgets that help women and against investments in organizations that support women in need.
If the Leader of the Opposition wants to prove that he is a better feminist than I am, I say go ahead. It would be great for our political system.
Mr. Speaker, here is the problem for the Prime Minister. He asked for strong women and this is what they look like: women who will not sacrifice their principles to cover up his corruption scandal, women who stand up every day and refuse to back down against his abuse of our judiciary and parliamentary committees. More importantly, his use of the term “feminist”: fake. 
I will ask one more time. If the Prime Minister is such a feminist, why is he muzzling the former attorney general?
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to serve alongside strong, extraordinary women, not only in my gender-balanced cabinet, but also within our caucus.
These are extraordinary women who work hard every day and are helping to build a stronger Canada, a country where gender equality prevails and where indigenous peoples are given opportunities as partners in everything we do, a country where we have lifted 825,000 people out of poverty in the past two years, because we are investing in the middle class and those working hard to join it.
Mr. Speaker, it seems the only women that the Prime Minister is proud of are those who use their reputations to do his dirty work. That is wrong. That is not a feminist. There is a reason why he used “they experienced things differently” both in the Creston groping scandal and in Lav scam. It is because he wants women to think and take the message that if they accuse him, a powerful man of wrongdoing, then they are to blame, and that is wrong.
Why is the Prime Minister only letting his good old boys do all the talking?
Mr. Speaker, I am happy to talk about everything this government is doing to protect and promote women's rights.
We are currently providing sexual and reproductive health services to Rohingya families and girls who have fled Myanmar. We created the position of ambassador for women, peace and security. We are supporting women through the Elsie Initiative, for women in peace operations. We are standing up for women by defending the rights of women in Saudi Arabia, something the Conservatives are too gutless to do. We are working closely with our G7 partners on education for women and girls in developing countries—
Mr. Speaker, the only thing the Prime Minister has been doing is moving hell and high water to protect a company that stands accused of bribing Moammar Gadhafi's sons with prostitutes and he has been doing that while muzzling strong, principled women. That is not what a feminist looks like. That is not walking the talk.
Every day that he refuses to allow the former attorney general to testify and tell her story is another day he is a fake feminist. Why does he have her muzzled?
Mr. Speaker, I am so pleased to have this opportunity to talk about women's rights.
Our government has invested millions and millions of dollars to help women across the country, and we will continue to do so. The Conservatives keep voting against our measures to promote gender equality and create more opportunities for female entrepreneurs.
We will continue our work because we know that investing in women in Canada and around the world is key to building a better world for everyone.
Mr. Speaker, not only do Liberals not want the truth to come out at the justice committee, we now know they were bending the truth about jobs being in danger. The CEO of SNC-Lavalin just said he never told the Prime Minister that jobs in Canada were in danger.
The Liberals shut down debate at committee. They misled Canadians. Two cabinet ministers and two senior officials have lost their jobs. Remember the Liberals in 2015 promised transparency and accountability. What happened to them? Canadians are tired of being misled and now know they cannot trust the Prime Minister.
Will the Prime Minister do the right thing and launch an independent public inquiry, yes or no?
Mr. Speaker, in 2015, we promised to invest in the middle class and create economic growth. That is exactly what we have done and will continue to do.
As shown in yesterday's budget, we are investing in improving access to new housing for young families. We are investing in high-speed connectivity across the country. We are investing in pharmacare to help improve access to prescription drugs.
We can do all this because our plan is working. We can keep investing thanks to the economic growth of the past three years.
Mr. Speaker, we have now learned from the CEO of SNC-Lavalin that 9,000 jobs were never at risk. To say that they are going to be unemployed is not true, he said, yet the Prime Minister has misled his caucus, the House and Canadians day after day, because it was never about jobs. It was about helping his wealthy friends and about shutting down the justice committee. He has tried to cover up his interference in an independent public prosecution. He has broken faith with the Canadian people.
Why is he so afraid of an investigation into his actions in making up the facts around the SNC lobbying?
Mr. Speaker, Canadians expect us to protect jobs and support workers while respecting our institutions. That is exactly what we are doing. Investing in training is one way we will continue to invest in workers and help Canadians.
We tabled our budget yesterday. Canadians will have access to training so they can be better prepared for the jobs and opportunities of the future. That is what it means to help workers and Canadians take control of their future, and that is what we are doing.
Mr. Speaker, Canadians want the truth. However, the Prime Minister refused to call a public inquiry. He refused to testify before the Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights. He refused to let us hear from his senior staff who work in his office. He is refusing to waive solicitor-client privilege for the former attorney general.
Since he shut down the work of the Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights, where we could perhaps have learned a little more, will the Prime Minister agree to testify before the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics?
Mr. Speaker, on this side of the House, we understand that parliamentary committees decide which witnesses they will invite and what they will study. I will always respect committee decisions.
On this side of the House, we respect our institutions. That is why we are investing in our institutions and in Canadians. We are investing in infrastructure across the country, we are investing in affordable housing, we are investing in connectivity, and we are providing funding to dairy farmers.
Mr. Speaker, the justice minister resigned, the Treasury Board president resigned, the Clerk of the Privy Council resigned, and the Prime Minister's principal secretary resigned, which is interesting because he is the Prime Minister's friend and supposedly did nothing wrong.
Today we learn that another Liberal MP has abandoned the Liberal ship because she was unhappy with the job. The Prime Minister is hiring private lawyers to defend himself with Canadians' money—but he did nothing wrong.
My question is simple. Will the Prime Minister agree to testify at the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics? 
Mr. Speaker, as the Conservatives should know, it is up to the committees to decide which witnesses they want to hear from. We will always participate in their studies.
I want to note that yesterday, our budget showed that Canadians continue to be our primary focus. The Conservatives can keep playing political games if they want to, but we have a plan for the economy that helped create 900,000 new jobs in three years, resulting in the lowest unemployment rate in 40 years. The Conservatives have no plan for the economy. 
Mr. Speaker, for a year and a half now, the Liberals and the Prime Minister have being going on, practically with tears in their eyes, about how they are protecting the 9,000 SNC-Lavalin jobs. The cat is now out of the bag, after the president and CEO of SNC-Lavalin told the Canadian Press that he never mentioned protecting the 9,000 jobs. This is the complete opposite of what the Prime Minister has been saying for the past month and a half.
Now that we know that the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics will investigate the Liberal SNC-Lavalin scandal, will the Prime Minister agree to testify and tell his version of the story?
Mr. Speaker, we have been making every effort to protect workers and jobs since 2015. We will continue to do so, especially since Canadians have created more than 900,000 jobs in this country since 2015. However, we recognized that not all Canadians have access to the training they need to get new jobs. In the budget we presented yesterday, we created the Canada training benefit, which will help workers find the time and money to upgrade their skills. This measure will be a huge help to workers and businesses.
Mr. Speaker, when the Globe and Mail broke the story on the Liberal SNC-Lavalin scandal, the Prime Minister said it was false.
What has happened since then? The former attorney general lost her job. The former president of the Treasury Board lost her job, and now a Liberal MP has left the Liberal caucus. One woman, two women, three women have left. That is the record of a Prime Minister who claims to be a feminist.
Since the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics will be meeting to examine the SNC-Lavalin scandal, will the Prime Minister agree to give his side of the story?
Mr. Speaker, we will always work with the committees, who determine themselves what studies they will undertake. In the meantime, we know that investing in Canadians and the Canadian economy, as we promised to do in 2015, is working. 
We are seeing economic growth that was never seen during the Harper years. We are seeing job creation that was never seen in the Harper years. Unfortunately, the Conservatives are still stuck on the same old Stephen Harper approach, and that is why they do not want to talk about the economy. They do not want to talk about the budget. They only want to play politics.
We will stay focused on Canadians.
Mr. Speaker, 1.5 million students around the world took to the streets in a climate strike last Friday.
Students from Canada, from coast to coast to coast, flooded the streets with a clear message: There is no planet B. We have 12 years to avert climate disaster, and climate leaders do not buy pipelines. Our children are demanding real action and an end to empty promises. Budget 2019 continues to subsidize big oil.
Will the Prime Minister admit that Harper's emission targets will not cut it, and that buying a 65-year-old pipeline is not climate action?
Mr. Speaker, I am very pleased to see that students and young people are concerned about the future of our planet, because we on this side of the House share that concern. That is why we are moving forward with putting a price on pollution. 
We are moving forward with an historic plan to protect our oceans. We are moving forward with investments in green energies and in new technologies to improve how our economy works. We will continue to fight climate change. It is a priority for our government, just as it is a priority for young people across the country.
Mr. Speaker, on Friday, 1.5 million students went on strike for the future of the planet and their own future.
I attended the protest in Montreal, amid a sea of 100,000 other people. It was beautiful and moving to see all these young people standing up to demand action.
There was even a slogan that went, “Do something, for eff's sake”.
The Liberals let them down with yesterday's budget. The government is still plodding along with the same old policies, the same old subsidies for oil companies and the purchase of an old pipeline.
Our young people realize that the situation is urgent. Why do the Liberals refuse to listen to them?
Mr. Speaker, we will always listen to young people, and we will always work with them to protect the environment and build a better world.
We are taking concrete action with budget 2019. We announced a new home renovation program that will help Canadians lower their energy bills. We are making zero-emission vehicles more affordable for Canadians across the country. We are also building the infrastructure to support them. 
The NDP keeps pitting the environment against the economy. We are growing the economy while protecting the environment.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday our government laid out the next steps in our plan to invest in families and to support the middle class and those working hard to join it.
A key part of the budget is new measures to make housing more affordable. Could the Prime Minister update the House on what we are doing to help Canadians find an affordable place to call home?
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the member for Surrey—Newton for his hard work.
Canadians told us that too many young families are being shut out of the housing market.
Budget 2019 tackles that issue. With the first-time home buyer incentive, Canadians will save hundreds of dollars a month on their mortgage payments. Boosting funding for the rental construction financing initiative will help Canadians find housing from the start, and we are going to continue with our approach.
Mr. Speaker, who said that questions remain unanswered? The former attorney general. Who said that she had lost confidence in how the government dealt with this matter? The former president of the Treasury Board.
The Prime Minister is insulting Canadians' intelligence by refusing to shed light on this affair.
Will the Prime Minister stop covering up the truth and agree to appear, and let his officials appear, before the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics so that we can get to the bottom of this political interference?
Mr. Speaker, as I said, we will always respond to committees' requests. It is up to our committees to determine what work they want to do and what witnesses they want to call, and we will always respect that.
On that note, it is interesting that the Conservatives, who usually want to talk about Canada's economy, are refusing to talk about it today. They are refusing to talk about the historic budget that we just tabled. Why? It is because they have no plan for the economy. All they have is an old approach that did not work under Stephen Harper, whereas we created 900,000 jobs across Canada, we lowered the unemployment rate, we lifted over 800,000 people— 
Order. The hon. member for Charlesbourg—Haute-Saint-Charles.
Mr. Speaker, if anyone here is afraid of something, it is the Prime Minister himself. He is afraid to talk about political interference in our justice system. He is afraid to let the former attorney general speak.
What is he so afraid of? Four people have resigned so far. Things must be pretty bad.
Will the Prime Minister appear before the Standing Committee on Access to Information, Privacy and Ethics, yes or no? 
Mr. Speaker, I have already answered that question.
The fact is that the Conservatives, who used to be more interested in Canadians and the economy, are now completely lost. They spent 10 years helping the rich and cutting programs, but that approach did not work. They did not balance the budget or drive the economic growth Canadians need.
Over the past three years, we have invested in the middle class and communities. We have delivered positive results for Canada's economy and Canadian families. That is what we will continue to do. The Conservatives have nothing to say.
Mr. Speaker, here are some quotes on the Liberal SNC-Lavalin scandal.
Gerald Butts stated, “There is no solution here that does not involve some interference.”
Michael Wernick stated, “I think he is going to find a way to get it done, one way or another.”
The Prime Minister's chief of staff stated, “We don't want to debate legalities anymore.”
The former attorney general stated, “Questions remain unanswered.”
The former president of the Treasury Board said, “I have lost confidence in how the government has dealt with this matter”.
The Prime Minister did not have the courage to appear at the justice committee before he stood behind the human shield of his Liberal members, who shut it down. Will he have the guts to show up at the ethics committee to answer to his involvement in this scandal?
Mr. Speaker, I would be happy to share what some people have said about our budget these past two days.
Montreal Mayor Valérie Plante said that this budget shows that Ottawa wants to help municipalities move ahead with 21st-century projects that will have a significant impact.
In a tweet, Annie Bérubé of Équiterre applauded the 2019 budget measure to make electric cars more affordable.
The Federation of Black Canadians said, “It reflects the words of hundreds of Black community leaders we have met demanding action on the International Decade”.
Perry Bellegarde also had things—
Order. I have heard the hon. member for Portneuf—Jacques-Cartier speaking a lot today, even when he did not have the floor. I normally enjoy hearing his voice, but only when he has the floor.
The hon. member for Chilliwack—Hope.
Here are some quotes, Mr. Speaker.
The former attorney general said, “I quit.”
The former president of the Treasury Board said, “I quit.”
The former top advisor to the Prime Minister said, “I'm gone.”
The former clerk of the Privy Council said, “I quit.”
These people have all quit because of the scandal that emanated from the very top of the government. The Liberals have tried to shut this down time and time again. Will the Prime Minister and his officials finally have the decency to show up at the ethics committee, do their job and explain to Canadians what they are so afraid of when it comes to the SNC-Lavalin scandal?
Mr. Speaker, we will always co-operate with parliamentary committees, which make independent decisions about what they want to study. That said, I would like to share another quote.
Perry Bellegarde, the national chief of the Assembly of First Nations said, “This federal budget shows important and sustained investments to advance First Nations priorities.”
Canadians across the country are thanking us for investing in the middle class, providing access to affordable housing, and investing in infrastructure and high-speed Internet. They are telling us that this will help them.
Mr. Speaker, earlier this month, I wrote to the Minister of Finance about the struggles young Canadians are facing because of student debt, like putting off starting a family or buying a home. I encouraged the minister to follow the lead of British Columbia's NDP government, which stopped charging interest on student loans last month. Instead, the Liberal budget proposes a half measure of simply reducing interest rates.
Post-secondary education should not be a debt sentence. Why are the Liberals choosing to hurt young Canadians and their chance to build a better future?
Mr. Speaker, I am very proud of the investments we have made in young Canadians over the past three years, and this budget continues in that direction. Young Canadians are Canada's most educated, connected and diverse generation.
Since 2015 we have been implementing measures to make post-secondary education more affordable. This includes allowing students to delay repaying their Canada student loans until they are earning $25,000 a year. Budget 2019 lowers the interest rate for student loans and eliminates interest for the first six months. This will save every student $2,000.
We know that investing in young Canadians is investing in—
The hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe—Bagot.
Mr. Speaker, with voices full of compassion, the Prime Minister and his Minister of Social Development indicated that they were going to enhance EI sickness benefits by the end of the year. That was in 2016.
There was nothing in the 2017 budget, nothing in the 2018 budget, and still nothing in the 2019 budget. This was the Liberals' last chance to keep their promise, but they decided to turn their backs on hundreds of thousands of sick people who need more than 15 weeks to recover.
Why did the Prime Minister betray them?
Mr. Speaker, we made investments to help caregivers. We made investments to help families who have a loved one with a rare disease, including $500 million to reduce the cost of very expensive drugs.
We will always make investments that help workers. In fact, in the budget, we announced the Canada training benefit, which will help workers find the time and money to improve their skills. This benefit includes four weeks of training every four years and up to $1,000 in income support.
The labour market is changing, and we are making sure that Canadians are ready for it.
Mr. Speaker, lying to a law officer is an offence under section 139 of the Criminal Code, which prohibits obstructing, perverting or defeating the course of justice. The Prime Minister told the former attorney general on September 17 that if she did not immediately shelve the charges into SNC-Lavalin, the company's headquarters would jet to London. Today, the CEO of the company indicated that he never said that and that it is not true. 
Why did the Prime Minister state a blatant falsehood to get charges dropped against SNC-Lavalin?
Mr. Speaker, what the member opposite said is absolutely false.
Mr. Speaker, actually, it is entirely true, and I can prove it.
Not only did the former attorney general testify that he said the company would leave Montreal without a deferred prosecution agreement, but he made the mistake of repeating the same falsehood in public at his press conference and it is on the record, so he can now deny what he said in front of 35 million Canadians or he can finally stand on his feet and begin telling the truth. 
He said to the former attorney general that the headquarters would be gone if she did not immediately shelve the charges. We now know that was a blatant falsehood. Why did he state a falsehood to get charges dropped against a company?
Mr. Speaker, from the beginning of this aff