Mr. HUGHES-by Mr. Geo. Taylor- asked:
1.	Is the government contemplating taking over Whitby harbour from the present owners?
2.	What representations are made to the government to induce it to take over the said harbour?
3.	Who are the present owners of Whitby harbour ?
i.	What are the returns of Whitby harbour for the last five years?
5.	Was the present member of parliament for South Ontario authorized by the government to promise before the recent elections that it would take over the harbour ?
6.	Has the government authorized the said member to negotiate with the owners of the harbour, or with others, in regard to the purchase of said harbour?
1.	Matter under consideration.
2.	Resolutions passed by the town council of Whitby and the county council of the county of Ontario, petitions sent in by owners and captains of vessels trading on Lake Ontario and representations made by prominent individuals submitted as follows:	That Whitby being the shortest
railway route between Lakes Huron and Ontario, it may be an important unit in the moving of large quantities of the grain product of Manitoba and the Territories to the sea-board by an all Canadian route; that the comparatively central situation of this harbour and its position with regard to the outlet of the Welland canal make it a desirable one for a harbour of refuge on the north shore of Lake Ontario, and further, that, owing to its railway connections with Midland and the Ontario government Temiscaming Railway, Whitby Harbour would, if improved, serve as a natural outlet of the trade of Central and New Ontario.
3.	Port Whitby Harbour Company.
4.	No record in the department.
5 and 6. No.


Mr. HUGHES-by Mr. Geo. Taylor- asked:
1.	Who is the collector of customs at Oshawa harbour, and what is his salary?
2.	What revenue has been collected at the port of Oshawa each year since it was taken over by the government, and from what source was the revenue derived?

3.	In addition to the salary of the collector, what other expenses have been incurred by the government each year in connection therewith since taking over the port?
4.	What representations were made to induce the governm ent to invest in the harbour ?
1.	George F. Blarney is collector of Customs at Oshawa; salary, $1,200 a year.
2.	The customs revenue collected at the port of Oshawa is as follows:
During 1904-5	$ 40,684 66
During 1905-6	
50,325	699 months during 1906-7	
50,042	61During 1907-8	
73,729	6911 months during 1908-9	
71,691	07

necessary to make the Oshawa harbour a harbour of refuge by providing for the undertaking of the improvements referred to in the government engineer's report.'
Further representations were made to the effect that ' the town needs a harbour of refuge for freight as well as passenger purposes, for the export of fruit and import of coal,' and that, if the harbour improvements were carried out, the local manufacturers would be placed on equal footing with any others in Canada.


How many acres of land are still undisposed of by the government in each of the provinces of Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta?
3.	The following expenses in addition to
the collector's salary have been incurred in connection with the customs service at Oshawa from July 1, 1904, to March 1, 1909, viz:	$556.65.


4.	The petition of the town council of Oshawa states : ' That the decrease in revenue of this port is largely due to the want of much needed improvements in the way of added dock and breakwater protection and dredging at the harbour which the Harbour Company is unable to supply; also that unless some action is taken to supply these needed harbour improvements, the harbour will become unsafe and unapproachable for vessels of ordinary capacity, such as are required for the heavy classes of freight, viz: iron and other raw material used by the numerous local factories and the coal required not only by them, but by all the people of the town and most of the farmers in the surrounding country. This has already seriously affected the grain trade and will continue to do so until remedied, and, if longer neglected, it will soon cut off the large passenger business now done at this port, and, what is of greater importance, the town shall lose the check upon the freight and passenger rates charged by the railway companies, which the competitive water route has always heretofore afforded; this would so hamper the manufacturing and commercial interests that its possibility must be regarded as a present serious menace to the prosperity of the town and of the surrounding farming country of which it forms the trade centre.'
The council therefore resolved that, in its belief: ' an urgent necessity exists for the prompt intervention of the Dominion parliament to prevent by timely aid at its present session (1898), this loss to this community which cannot longer be averted by private enterprise,' and requested the government ' to take such action as may be


,
Undisposed of land in Manitoba at the 1st January, 1909, is 17,862,240 acres.
Undisposed of land in Saskatchewan at 1st January, 1909, is 104,878,159 acres.
Undisposed of land in Alberta at the 1st January, 1909, is 117,369,630 acres.
These figures are approximate.


What were the amounts paid by the Intercolonial Railway for stationery and printing for the year July 31, 1905, to June 30, 1906; from July 1, 1906, to March 31, 1907; and from April 1, 1907, to March 31, 1908.


1.	Year ended June 30, 1906-
Printing	$ 88,509 70
Stationery	 18,428	43
Nine months ended March 31, 1907-
Printing	$ 86,921
Stationery	 13,325	16
Year ended March 31, 1908-
Printing	$104,188	76Stationery	
34,330	46


1.	For what wharfs in the counties of Queens and. Sunbury did the Department of Public Works call for tenders in October last?
2.	What was the date of the call for tenders, and what was the date stated within which tenders would be received?
3.	Was there a department estimate of the cost of these wharfs? If so, what was it in G9iCh cas6 ?
4.	Were tenders received for all the wharfs for which they were called, and what was the lowest tender in each case?
5.	What was the reason that none of the tenders were accepted?
6.	Is it intended to call for new tenders for all these wharfs during the present year, or to build them without tender and contract?
2375


1.	How many new daily mail services were established in the counties of Queens and Sunbury, N.B., in the months of September and October last, and how many new post offices ?
2.	Did the Post Office Department before ordering the establishment of these services and offices have a report from the post office inspector as to the cost of maintenance and probabe revenue? If so, what was it in the case of each office established?
3.	Had any of these mail services or Post Offices been previously applied for and refused? If so, when and on what grounds were the applications refused?


LEM1EUX (Postmaster General) :
Only one daily mail service was established in the counties of Queens and Sunbury during the months of September and October last, to serve a new post office at Washa-damoak, the cost of such service being $25 per annum. The following is a list of new post offices established showing also estimated revenue and cost of service:
Elm Hill-
Estimated revenue	 $15
Cost of tri-weekly service	 35
Established upon report of post office inspector.


Washadamoak-
Estimated revenue	 $15
Cost of daily service	 25
Established upon report of post office inspector.
Central Maugerville-
Estimated revenue	 $20
No special cost for daily service, as office is situate on an existing mail route.
Established upon report of post office inspector.
Upper Welsford-
Estimated revenue	 $20
No special cost for tri-weekly service, as office is situate on an existing mail route.
Established upon report of post office
inspector.
Canaan Rapids-
Estimated revenue	 $20
Cost of semi-weekly service	 60
This office was refused during the year 1905 on the report of the inspector that it would accommodate only seven families; but the inspector having subsequently advised the department that a greater number of persons would now benefit by such an office authority was given for its establishment.
Snell-
Estimated revenue	 $10
Cost of tri-weekly service	 60
This application was marked to stand during February, 1908, the report of the post office inspector showing that a limited number of families would be accommodated, and that the proposed office would be within a reasonable distance of two other offices, but from a subsequent report it appearing that the distance of neighbouring offices was greater, and the district much isolated, the office was then authorized.


Mr. HUGHES-by Mr. Sproule-asked:
1.	Have the batteries in Kingston or elsewhere in Canada sleighs for their guns for winter use? If not, why not?
2.	Have the permanent corps suitable clothing, kit and equipment sufficient for a winter campaign?
3.	Have the ordinary active militia the
same?
4.	Is there any sufficient reasons why these should or should not be supplied, and what are they?
5.	Are the batteries manned up to full establishment ?
6.	Are the other permanent corps manned to full establishment?
7.	Have the corps been up to full strong h in camps during the last three years?
8.	To what is the cause of shortage in members attributed?

9.	Why do some officer's bring out full mem bers in corps and others be deficient?
10.	Is the Kingston district rifle range ope ' for rifle practice? If not, what is the cause of delay ?
11.	Is it the intention of the government to revert to the older plan of recognizing educational and other fitness as the basis of obtaining certificates and not mere rank?
1.	The batteries have some old pattern sleighs, but these are not considered satisfactory, so a new pattern is under trial at the present time. As soon as the new pattern is perfected, it is the intention of the department to equip the batteries with it.
2.	Yes; Consisting of great coat or cloak, fur cap, mitts or gloves, muffler, cardigan jacket and at certain stations moccasins and long stockings.
3.	No: The only article of winter kit issued to non-permanent units, in addition to the regimental peace issue, is the greatcoat or cloak. Other articles required to complete winter kit would be supplied upon mobilization.
4.	The training of non-permanent units is mainly carried out in the spring or summer months. The cost of issuing winter kit to non-permanent units and of holding in reserve a sufficient quantity of such articles to equip the men required to raise such units to war establishment is prohibitive.
Moreover, it is considered that, if winter kit were issued and a reserve stock held, there would be a great loss to the country annually through the deterioration of the same.
5-6. Yes, to the full establishment as allowed by the estimates voted.
7.	Not all corps.
8-9. To business conditions and the difference in energy and enthusiasm of commanding officers.
10.	The range has not yet been opened for rifle practice, as it has only recently been handed over to the department by the contractor. Also, some additional land within the danger area in the rear of the butts has still to be acquired. It is, however, expected that everything will be in readiness for the ensuing shooting season.
11.	It is not proposed to alter the present system of obtaining certificates of qualification. These certificates, however, are not granted for mere rank.


1.	Has the Department of the Interior determined, with precision, the longitudes and latitudes of the following cities or any of them: Halifax, N.S., St. John, N.B., Rim-cuski, Que., Three Rivers, Montreal, Que., Ottawa, Toronto, Kingston, Hamilton, Owen Sound, Out., Winnipeg, Man., Calgary, Alta., Vancouver and Victoria, B.C.?
2.	If these longitudes and latitudes have not been determined by the officers of the Department of the Interior, what are they, according to the most authentic maps and. the best information in the possession of the said department ?
3.	What is the difference, solar time, between Toronto and Ottawa, Toronto and Montreal, Ottawa and Montreal, Montreal and Quebec, Quebec and St. John, N.B., Quebec and Halifax, Victoria and Halfiax?


1.	Yes, as defined in answer to No. 2.
2.	See answer to No. 1. The latitude and longitude of the cities mentioned are as follows:
Halifax...	.
St. John, N.B.


Three Rivers. Montreal	
Ottawa	
Toronto

Kingston


3- The difference in solar time between the cities mentioned is as follows:


Toronto-Ottawa	
14	43Toronto-Montreal	....	23	16Ottawa-Montreal	8	33Montreal-Quebec	
9	27Quebee-St. John,	N.	B..	20	39Quebec-Halifax	
30	27Victoria-Halifax	
3 59 02
1.	Did this government at any time make arrangements with the government of the United States whereby registered stock would be imported for breeding purposes into *either country from the other free of duty?
2.	If so, at what date were such arrangements made, and are they effective now?
3.	Were regulations under such arrangements promulgated for the information of those concerned? If so, how were they promulgated ?
4.	Have these regulations been amended at any time? If so, what is the effect of the -amendment?


1,	2, 3, 4. No.
Such regulations have been in force in both countries for some years. They were made by each country acting independently of the other. The Canadian regulations have been amended from time to time. The effect of recent amendments is to require the importer to be a British subject ox-domiciled in Canada and to produce with his entry a certificate of record and pedigree issued by the office of the Canadian National Records and approved by the Department of Agriculture. In the case of Holstein-Friesian cattle the certificate is issued by the secretary of the Holstein-Friesian Breeders' Association of Canada. The amended regulations have been furnished by the Department of Agriculture to the principal newspapers in Canada and the live stock associations. They have been published in the Official ' Gazette ' and mailed to all customs officers.


Has the imperial government made any offer or proposal to this government to allow them the use of any ships of war now out of commission or discarded as obsolete, to be used by the government of Canada for the purpose of fisheries protection or coast defence?


No.


What amount of money has been expended *by the Public Works Department for militia


purposes for each year since 1896 on capita] and current account, respectively?


PUGSLEY (Minister of Public
Works):
	Capital.	Income.
1896-97 			$ 84,845 76
1897-93 			102,101 50
1898-99 			52,211 67
1899-1900 . . . .	[DOT] [DOT] $ 4,342 66	76,278 591900-01 	. . 40,481 55	111,815 071901-02 	[DOT] * 33,480 98	247,200 SO1902-03 	148,080 711903-04 	.. 1,522 62	155,017 581904-05 	419,407 511905-06 	387,157 211906-07 	256,106 481907-08 	502,208 191908-09 (to date)	576,848 66


. . $79,827 81	$3,119,279 73
IRRIGATION	OF CERTAIN	LANDS.


1.	Has the government received any irrigation propositions for the lands or any part of them applied for by Percy Aylwin?
2.	If so, what were these propositions?
3.	Has the department any notice of Mr. Aylwin's application having been assigned, or otherwise disposed of?


1.	Yes. An application to purchase these and other lands was received in May, 1908, from the Canadian International Colonization Company, of Winnipeg, Manitoba.
2.	(a) To be permitted to purchase 350,000 acres of land at $3 per acre, and to be allowed a credit not exceeding $2 per acre for the cost of the irrigation works to be constructed; the said credit to be treated as part of the purchase price.
(b)	To irrigate from one-fifth to one-fourth of the area purchased.
(c)	To make a deposit of $400,000 as security for the construction of the irrigation works.
(d)	To make a further deposit of $100,000 as a guarantee for the continuous supply of water to consumers, or to give sucli guarantee in such other form as might be acceptable.
3.	No.


1.	Were George A. Johnston, George P. Ward, H. W. Ross, Munroe Charlebois, James
O.	Cowan, James White and L. J. Kehoe dismissed from the public service in 1906?
2.	If so, what was the reason for their dismissal ?
3.	What was their salary while in the service?
4.	Are any of the above named persons now in the employ of the government? If so, who,

and what is the date of his last appointment or reinstatement?
5.	Was any part of the money said to have been improperly received by these men, or any of them, refunded to the Department of Immigration as suggested by the Auditor General, Report 1906, L-91?


1.	Yes.
2.	Irregularity in their accounts.
. 3. Salaries while in the service.
Name.	1901-02.	1902-03.	1903-04.	1904-05.	1905-06.	1906-07.3 cts.	$ cts.	$ cts.	$ cts.	8 cts.	$ cts.


Johnston	560 00	1,010 00	1,035 67 20 00	988 00 664 00	916 00 876 00	364 00 400 00272 00	784 00	380 00706 00	756 00	408 00228 00	(50 4 00	852 00	384 00176 00	660 00	694 00	360 00268 00	728 00	626 00	412 004.	Yes.


Johnston, 14th August, 1908.
Honore Charlebois, 9th July, 1907.
Note. The answer to No. 4 is only given as far as the Department of the Interior is concerned.
5.	Yes.


1.	What amount of money has been expended by the government for printing in connection with immigration matters during the fiscal year 1908 and up to 1st of March, 1909?
2.	What amount of money has been expended for advertising in newspapers for the same purpose ?
3.	What are the names of the said newspapers and the amount paid to each?
4.	What pamphlets were issued, what are their names, from whom were they purchased, by whom published, and what prices were paid for each?


Stands as motion for return.


1.	Has the Minister of Marine and Fisheries received a petition since January, 1909, from residents of Winnipegosis district, asking that the lake be reopened for summer fishing?
2.	If so, is it the intention to comply with their request? If not, why not?


1.	Yes.
2.	This question was answered on the 22nd February, ' Hansard ' No. 24, page 1454.


1. Is the government aware that a large number of Swiss or other foreign rifles are
said to be brought into Canada in wholesale lots, and retailed throughout the country at a small figure for sporting purposes, and that these rifles are small bore, long range arms, carrying more than a mile, selling for about $3 each, and are used indiscriminately in the vicinity of towns and villages, thereby causing a great source of danger to life and limb?
2.	If so, under what customs law or regulation are these rifles brought into Canada?
3.	Who are the importers, in what quantities, and under what class do they come in?
4.	When the government discarded the Snider rifle for more modern arm, how were these rifles disposed of, to whom, at what price, and in what quantities?


1.	The government is aware that a large number of foreign rifles of long range have been brought into Canada and distributed by the trade throughout the country. These rifles are advertised for sale by retail in some instances at about $5 each, hut the government is not aware of their use indiscriminately in the vicinity of towns and villages.
2.	These rifles have been admitted by collectors of customs the same as other arms which have been imported, without restriction, for many years. A circular was issued recently to collectors of customs, pointing out that permission from the Department of Customs is required for the importation of military rifles (repeating arm), except from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. The department has not granted permission for importation of these rifles since January last.
3.	One large importing firm is known to the government, but there are several smaller importers. All the importers, and the quantities of rifles imported, can, however, only be ascertained upon examination' of a large number of documents, which would require time. Provision is

made in Tariff item No. 424 for a duty of 30 per cent (General Tariff) on rifles imported into Canada.


4.	The Snider rifles were disposed of as follows
(1)	. By sale on tenders received after public advertisement dated 25 th July, 1898.


Minden Cole, Montreal,
30,000	at 75 cents each-and 400 (damaged beyond any repair) at 25 cents each.
(2)	. Now in use by cadet corps and on ordnance charge 11,493.


I notice from the newspapers that very successful experiments have been made by certain Canadians in aerial navigation and especially at Baddeck, in N. S., in the case of the invention of Mr. Alexander Bell, the eminent Canadian. I wish to know whether the government has taken any steps to recognize the advance of this science in Canada, and if not, is it their intention to take measures to encourage the science as in the case of the Marconi wireless telegraph system?


We have the highest appreciation of the work that has been accomplished by Mr. Douglas McCurdy and also Mr. Baldwin of Toronto, who is associated with him in the work, with Dr. Graham Bell. We have not, shall I say fortunately or unfortunately, any branch of our public service in which we could conveniently utilize the discoveries of these scientific gentlemen. Nevertheless we felt that we should take some notice of their achievements and for the present we have taken steps to draw the attention of the imperial government to them in the hope that the officials of the War Office and the Admiralty, who are now directing their attention to aerial navigation, may be able to avail of the services of these young Canadians and thus retain them for the benefit of the empire.


Hear, hear.


Last session the Minister of Railways and Canals stated in the House that the lowest estimate for the construction of that part of the Grand Trunk Pacific from Moncton to Winnipeg was $28,000 per mile. The minister afterwards stated that this estimate had been increased to $63,437 per mile. Has this last estimate been changed


since last session, and if not, is the section of the Grand Trunk from Moncton to Winnipeg being constructed at that cost per mile. Does this estimate per mile include terminals and railway stations on that section between Moncton and Winnipeg, and will the minister state as nearly as possible the exact mileage including switches from Moncton to Winnipeg?


Some time ago I answered the hon. member for Lanark (Mr. Haggart) that on inquiry, the Board of Transcontinental Railway Commissioners had assured me they had no reason to date to make any further revision of their estimate per mile. If my hon. friend will allow me until to-morrow I will try to get exact information from the engineers as to his other questions.
PAPER, PULP, &c.-NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE U. S.


Have there been any negotiations with the government of the United States respecting lower reciprocal duties or abolition of duties upon paper, pulp, logs and lumber, or, has the government declined to negotiate with regard to this matter.


There has been no negotiation nor any attempt at negotiation on this matter.


GRAHAM (Minister of Railways and Canals) moved that the House go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution:

Resolved, that it is expedient to provide that the sum of $200,000 each year for five consecutive years from the first day of April, 1909, be appropriated and set apart from the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada for the purpose of aiding in the providing of protection, safety and convenience for the public in respect of existing highway crossings of railways at rail level, and that the said sums be placed to the credit of a special account to be known as ' The Railway Grade Crossing fund/ and be applied under authority of the Board of Railway Commissioners for Canada.


Motion agreed to, and House went into committee.
It is due to the committee that I should make a short explanation of the details of the proposed Bill. As the general question was discussed at great length a few days ago, it is not necessary for me to add any argument to convince the members of the committee or the country that a situation does exist that needs some remedy. It is not a situation that can be remedied by any theories. To my mind it is a condition that requires a prac-

tical solution. The crux of the remedy, so far as this House is concerned, is the enlargement of the power of the Railway Commission and a contribution from parliament towards the purpose we have in view. Objection has been raised in one or two quarters to the federal authorities making any contribution for the elimination of the dangers of level crossings, it being contended that all the expense should be borne by the railways and the municipalities. There are conditions under whicn that might be proper, and the board will have full power to adopt that principle where in its judgment those conditions exist. But if we are to get rid of this great danger, even partially, I think we must at once be practical, and with that object I have followed to a certain extent, in the drafting of this measure, the policy adopted in every state of the union which has endeavoured to grapple with the problem. Were we beginning railway construction at the present time, it would not be difficult to frame legislation for giving the Board of Railway Commissioners power to protect level crossings hereafter to be constructed. But in a new country like ours we have been so anxious to have railways constructed that the federal authority has aided them, the provinces have aided them, and the municipalities have aided them, and until recent years we have allowed them to have pretty much their own way in regard sto the protection of the crossings. As a result of our combined lack of scrutiny of the construction of railway crossings, and of the different conditions that have arisen owing to growth of population, increased speed of trains and development of the country, it has become necessary for us to take active steps to undo in a measure what we have done, or, in other words, to adapt our legislation to present conditions. It being a question that is practical, I believe the only practical way for this House to deal with it is to assent to a contribution to assist in the elimination of this evil, and in that view I have introduced the resolution. Now, in short, the Bill proposes that we shall contribute $200,000 a year for five years to a fund to be designated for the purpose I have indicated. We do not propose to give the board power to divide the $200,000 as it pleases, but we propose to restrict the contribution in this way. For no crossing shall there be contributed more than 20 per cent of the cost nor more than $5,000. The board may not draw on this fund at all, but we give it power to do so within these restrictions. The board will have power, as it has now, to apportion the cost between the railway, _ the municipality, other person or corporation and this fund. We say other corporation or person, to provide for the case of a toll road owned by a company or the case of a street railway company. It has been a little difficult to de- I
line the crossing, as it may have one track, two tracks, three tracks, or even four tracks.


Is there a limit as to the municipality as well ?


Not in this Bill. In the United States Act there is a limit to the amount contributed by a municipality, but the conditons are different there from those existing in Canada. Conditnons have arisen in Ontario in connection with large viaduct schemes, to which the municipality contributes a larger portion than it does in other cases. The law is not changed in that respect. We are only passing restrictive legislation with reference to the amount we are to contribute ourselves. As to a crossing, we propose to describe that as a work not including more than from one to four tracks. The reason will be obvious. Some crossings might include at terminals fifteen or twenty tracks, and it would not be fair to have the word ' crossing ' mean more than a certain number of tracks. That number I have placed at four. In order that one municipality may not get all the benefit of this fund in one year by having a large number of crossings, we propose to enact that not more than three crossings in any one municipality in any one year shall be contributed to from this fund.
Another important point is that the contributions I have outlined are to be for crossings that now exist, but I am proposing to place a clause in the Act which will say that crossings, hereafter created by railways yet to be constructed crossing highways, shall be constructed at the expense of the company and without any charge on our fund or on the municipality, thus making a distinction between crossings which already exist and those which are to be brought into existence in the future.
I am making some distinction in the_ case of railways not yet built, as to the priority between the railway and the highway. If the railway is run through a section where there is no highway practically, and it crosses no highway, and is built according to the directions of the Board of Railway Commissioners, it ought not to be in the future, if a highway is constructed across the track, in the same position as if the highway were constructed first. In such a case the hoard can apportion the cost as between the railways and the municipality.


Does the hon. minister mean a highway in law or in fact? Will the Act apply where a highway has been set apart by the survey, but not actually constructed?


I have not given that a great deal of thought, though the other day, in discussing it, I drew attention to the fact that a street might be provided for and not be built. That can be discussed in committee and possibly we might

get over the difficulty, if it be a difficulty, by defining what is meant by a highway.
Another definition determines what we mean by a municipality. We describe it as a city, town, incorporated village, township or parish, in order to guard against the word 'municipality' being constructed as a county by some courts.
These are the main provisions, so far as level crossings are concerned, and it is but fair to sav that in this Bill there are certain other items which it would not be out of place to explain for the moment. In our Act as now existing, some difficulty has arisen as to the issuing of bonds. The same difficulty arose under the old country Act,. and the English Act provides for it. I think they provide for it in the Company's Act, but. I propose to provide for it in this Act as it applies particularly to railway companies. It appears that by a judgment in the British courts, when bonds are pledged as security, say as collateral security, they are at that moment treated as having been issued but just deposited as security. In such a case, they could not be re-issued except as a new issue. In looking over the British Act I find they have remedied that. In several provinces they have done it in the Company's Act. In order to clear up the matter, I propose to introduce a clause to cover that point.
There is a question particularly affecting the people of the west and that is the protection along the lines of railway by means of fire guards. I have had representations made by members from the west and also by the railway companies themselves, regarding the power of the railways to plough furrows in lands not on their line for the purpose of protection against fire. I am providing that they may be allowed to do that under conditions to be prescribed by the Board of Railway Commissioners. There is this difficulty that the railway companies think they ought to have the right to go on other property and be exempt from all liabilities for damages. In some cases that might be proper and in others not, because they might in some cases injure more property than they would protect. I have thought it advisable not to release them from any liabilities under the Act. On the other hand we do not want to impose in perpetuity the liability, and we concluded that the fair way was to provide that the railway companies could, under conditions prescribed by the board, establish these fire guards.
There is another point I want to deal with, of great importance to the railway companies and the people, particularly in sections where railway construction is taking place. On all these points I am open to discussion and conviction. The law, as it now stands, provides that if plans are


filed for the location of a railway, no matter how long a time may elapse between the filing of these plans and the taking over of the property, the value of the property shall remain at the price it was when the plans were filed. Let me illustrate. In . a section of country where a railway is to be constructed or a charter granted, the company may proceed to file plans. The companies have their charters renewed. They may have had their plans filed in a certain locality and ten years may elapse before they proceed to take possession of the land for the right of way. The law intended that the land should not increase in value owing to the expected building of railways. It was intended to protect the railways to that extent. But circumstances often arise in which the land increases in value very rapidly, independent of the railway going there, and it hardly seems fair that a company should have the privilege of tieing up the land or keeping it at this high value ten or twenty years before they intend building the road, while the property all around is increasing in value. I propose to say that two years will be allowed after filing of the plans for the railway to obtain a title. That two years corresponds with the time given the railway companies by this House for the expenditure of 15 per cent of their charter. After two years they have to come back and get their charters renewed. I thought it would be fair to make these periods concurrent. I would ask the committee to place a clause in the Bill saying that the_ price of property shall remain as at the time the plans were filed, provided the company obtains titles to these lands within two years of the filing of these plans. That situation has arisen in some parts of Canada, and I think it is but fair that we should apply the remedy. That is a clause I have inserted in the Bill, and at present I think it need interfere with no person.


Will that clause be retroactive, or will the government take care that existing litigations-for there are such, as mentioned by the minister-are not included in this section?


I have not made provision for that in the clause, but I think we would have to guard against interference with present litigation. I am opposed to interfering with any case now in dispute in the courts. These are the main points in the Bill, which I submit tol the confidence of the House. I think I have gone further than the resolution would warrant me in going, but as they are in the Bill I thought it better to make a full explanation.


With regard to the filing of jjlans, the minister has pointed out very clearly what the object of his proposal is, and it is a very laudable object in my

opinion. But there is another defect in this connection, if I am rightly informed, in reference to the filing of plans along and adjacent to navigable waters and harbours. As I understand it, the railway company makes plans and submits them to the railway board, or the minister, as the case may be. The railway board, or minister, might refuse to ratify the plans. But that is not the practice; the plans, as a rule, are ratified. Because, there seems to be no other course. The law is not elastic enough, it seems to me. The railway board ought to have power to ratify such portions of the plans as they see fit, and, later, if the public interests and the business of the road require it, they could ratify further portions. In that way, some portion of the water fronts and harbours might be conserved to the public; under existing circumstances, the railway company usually manages to get it all. Will the minister please consider that point?


I will.


Would the minister explain how he understands the jurisdiction of the railway board as regards municipalities? Does he understand that the board has power, without any Act on the part of the municipality, to order the municipality to contribute towards, let us say, providing means of protection; or is it only when the municipality initiates the proceedings and so submits itself to. the jurisdiction of the board?


I think it is comparatively clear that the board has jurisdiction to compel a municipality as well as an individual. The decision of the board may be made an order of the court by a very simple process. I do not wish to express a legal opinion, not being a lawyer, but 1 have discussed the matter with the Minister of Justice and several other gentlemen, and the opinion seems to be that, even if we did not, in the first instance, have ample powers, the passing of this portion of the Bill, being incident to the working out of the Act in" detail, would give full authority.
Mr. LEN'NOX. I would like to ask another question. Has the minister conferred in any way with any of the provincial governments with a view to their co-operating in bringing about the desired improvement in our conditions?


I may say that I have done so. It is only within the last few days that I have been able to work this Biil out into the shape in which I now have it. It is a very intricate matter, when you come to get it down on paper. I wrote a brief letter to each of the provincial premiers, outlining what I was doing, and asking for their co-operation. I suggested
to them my own opinion that the provinces might care to contribute something, but that it would be out of place for me to urge that view. But I did suggest that it would help in the working out of the Bill if they would give the municipalities any powers they required in reference to raising money for the purposes indicated, as the provincial authorities control the municipalities. I suggested to them also that if the municipalities through themselves, or in some way through the legislature, would consider the advisability of passing certain by-laws as to the necessity of exercising care in crossing tracks, it might be a benefit. I received a reply from the premier of Ontario expressing sympathy with the movement. I shall hear from him again, as they have not had time to discuss the matter fuller. Other premiers have not had time to reply.


There seems to be a consensus of opinion in favour of legislation in the direction of that introduced by the Minister of Railways. There is one matter which the hon. gentleman has neglected to deal with in his speech:	he
did not tell the number of crossings to be provided for, nor whether the grant of the sum proposed each year for five years would be sufficient to wipe out the dangerous crossings altogether, or whether this would provide for only a moiety. In any case, this is a step in the right direction. The nice question arises, that has been suggested by the hon. member for South Simcoe (Mr. Lennox) as to the power of this House to compel municipalities to contribute to these crossings. In the past, we have dealt with this matter through the Railway Commisison. Municipalities have applied to the commission to have the railway crossings regulated. It may be said, is has been suggested, that, when the municipalities have been applicants, the commission may have jurisdiction by reason of that fact. But I think we have gone further than that; I think that the railway companies have applied to the Railway Commission asking that municipalities should he required to contribute towards highway crossings and that the commission has dealt with that matter. I have expressed myself pretty clearly as to the jurisdiction of this parliament to legislate on these matters. 1 believe it to be quite clear that, as this parliament has power to grant a railway charter, it has the right to legislate on everything incidental to the carrying on of the railway. Property and civil rights are handed over to the jurisdiction of the provinces. But we go so far as to say that a municipality shall contribute towards a railway crossing. We go so far as to say that the railway

company shall have the right to enter into private property adjacent to the railway and make a fire guard.
If we can do that, we can almost do anything in reference to assuming jurisdiction over civil rights and property. My memory is in the past, to a great extent. I have listened to the opinions of the ablest lawyers, and have consulted them with reference to that very subject. I had occasion to consult Sir John Thompson in reference to that matter, and he was clear that where the parliament of Canada had decided that any subject was incidental to something which they had jurisdiction oyer, parliament could exercise jurisdiction over that subject, and the highest court in Great Britain would not inquire whether it was incidental or not. According to that opinion, I think that our jurisdiction is certain. I think there is no doubt that the minister is proceeding in the right direction, because it is clear, from the debates in the House, and the opinions of the press, and of every one else, that the disgraceful state of affairs in this country regarding level crossings must be put an end to. It is but reasonable that the Dominion government should contribute something towards that end. It is a small amount that the Dominion government are contributing, and it could not be left to a fairer court than the Railway Commission to apnortion the amount between _ the government, the railways and municipalities. I congratulate the minister on the resolution, and on the able advocacy of the legislation bv the hon. member for Simcoe (Mr. Lennox) and others. I consider the legislation to be absolutely in the right direction.
Mr. BLA1N. When the minister was explaining his Bill, I notice he said that the limit of the tracks was four. I have in mind one or two very dangerous crossings where there are five tracks over the highway. Why should not the minister make provision for cases of that kind?


My hon. friend will see that I am helping him. Where there are more than four tracks the federal fund could be drawn upon for practically two crossings instead of one. A situation of that kind could call for an appropriation for two crossings on the same highway. I was limiting the Bill to four tracks, because in some places there might be terminals, and I wanted to get away from the large viaduct schemes. In that case there would be nothing to preclude the commission from drawing on the federal fund an amount to equal two crossings.


The same thought occurred to me when the Minister of Railways was limiting the crossings to only four tracks. I have in mind a particular crossing which has been declared danger-Mr. J. G. HAGGART
ous by the Railway Committee of the Privy Council, by the Board of Railway Commissioners and by the Minister of Railways himself. There are six tracks. The Grand Trunk has made a shunting ground across the highwav with six tracks,, one running a distance of 25 or 30 feet beyond the highway, but it is sufficient to make six tracks across the highway. I understood the minister to say that he proposed not only to limit the purpose of this Bill to crossings where there were not more than four tracks, but also to limit the number of cases in each municipality.


In any one year.


I would like to understand from the minister whether, for instance, if the crossing I have referred to was taken in, and a portion of the money was given to that crossing-and I believe we could get a portion of it-would that be the same as three crossings in that particular year for that municipality?-because there are six tracks there.


The idea of the Bill is that, for this purpose, you can call a crossing of four tracks or less one crossing; if you had eight tracks there would be two crossings.


Do we understand then that in case of five tracks, if there were one track more than four, the municipality would get double the amount? Would it be $5,000'for each track? It seems to me that would be an unfair proportion. If there were eight or ten tracks the municipality would only be paid for two crossings.


My hon. frienid has missed the point. I have confined the grant to not more than 20 per cent in any case, because they could not get over that restriction, if they did over the other. The Board of Railway Commissioners will have full power to restrict as they see fit. We are adding a limit over which they cannot go, both as to percentage and as to amount.


There was a point I did not understand. If I understood the minister correctly, he confines the operations of this Act to incorporated municipalities. Now in the newer sections of the west, in northern Ontario, and doubtless in other parts of the country, there are settlements close to railways, but there is no municipal organization. I would like, if possible, that people in these circumstances should have the same privilege, and that the minister should extend the Act to places where the people 'have not organized municipally, but where the crossings are just as dangerous as in cities and towns.


There is nothing in this Act to prevent the Board of Railway Commissioners from dealing with crossings' in unorganized districts as with crossings any-

where else. If there is no municipality, there may be some other power upon which they could draw for a portion of the fund. The object of this Act is to eliminate the danger of any level crossing in Canada. So far as possible I have tried to outline the parties among whom the costs should be apportioned.


Can they draw on this fund in the cases I have mentioned?


I think there will be no question about that.


I understand none of this fund will be used to protect level crossings on government railways. I would ask the minister if it is intended in the near future to take into consideration the level crossings on government railways. He must know that in Nova Scotia, for instance, there are numerous dangerous level crossings that should be protected.


That is a matter which gave me a good deal of thought-how we should proceed in regard to government railways. But back of it all we have to remember that it is the same government and the same treasury, whether the money comes out of this fund or out of some other fund. As the government railways pay no taxes to either the municipalities or provinces, the municipalities, with reference to government railways, occupy a somewhat different position from that which they occupy with reference to private-owned railways. In the estimates of this year my hon. friend will find several amounts devoted to the elimination of level crossings. We propose to do at least as good work on the government railways as we are trying to make private-owned railways do throughout the Dominion of Canada.


I understand the minister to say that the word ' municipality ' as defined in this Bill, will apply to cities, towns and incorporated villages. In the province of New Brunswick we have no townships and we have very few villages that are incorporated. Would the municipality or the county be liable in a case of that kind where there was a crossing running through a village that was not incorporated?


In my explanation I intended to use the word ' parish ' in addition to ' townships.'


You did use it.


Would not that cover your case?


Of course, we have parishes.


I certainly am very much pi eased that we are to have a defined nolicy as to part of this question. I maintain a reasonable respect for the Railway Board,
but I have greater faith in the wisdom of 220 men than in the wisdon of five or six ; and what I have set out for particularly in this matter is that we shall have some kind of general principle upon which the question of the control of railway crossings shall be settled. I notice too with pleasure that the minister has a double limit to the liability which we will incur; first, that we shall not contribute more than 20 per cent and secondly that in any case we shall not gc beyond $5,000 for the protection of any one crossing. I am inclined to think that it will be found that this is a valuable limitation, and that, as well, it will probably be found to be a reasonable amount. But, whilst I am very much pleased that we are to have, in part, a defined policy upon the question of railway crossings, I regret- and I hope it will not continue to be a regret, as I trust the minister will take into consideration the advisability of amending his judgment in that regard-I regret that we have not some limit to the contribution to be made by municipalities, if a contribution is to be made by the municipalities at all. If it is necessary that we should have a limit in the case of the country, with its comparatively large resources, I do submit that it is even more important and necessary that we should have a limit in the case of the country, with its comparatively large resources, I do submit that it is even more important and necessary that we should have a limit beyond which the municipalities .shall not be called upon to contribute. The minister might answer me by saying that there is such a wide range to this question that it is hard to place the limit. I know it is, but the limit might be on a sliding scale of some kind.


On a percentage basis.


On a percentage basis, as is suggested, and I think it, will be found to work out very fairly. I would certainly urge that we have a iimit as regards contributions by municipalities, a definite percentage beyond which they cannot be called upon to contribute unless they desire by consent of the council of the municipality to contribute a larger amount. I notice in the findings of the Railway Board that a good many of the cases are adjusted by agreement between the rai