That the Select Standing Committee on. Banking and Commerce have leave to sit while the House is in session, in accordance with the recommendation contained in the 20th report of the said committee presented this 30th day of April, 1913.


I would suggest that that stand until Friday.


We were hoping to be able to sit this afternoon for a while at least. We have nearly finished our labours on the Bank Bill. There are some thirty-five clauses yet remaining to be dealt with. If hon. members agree, I would suggest that the njotion might be amended so as to give us leave to sit this day only and have the general question as to our sitting while the House is in session dealt with on Friday. I will bring in a new report on Friday asking for the general permission.


Are there witnesses from a distance to be examined?


No, we are through with the witnesses. We are now dealing with the clauses of the Bill.


It is intended this afternoon to take up one of the most important sections, the* interest section, and 1 should like much to be present in the committee when that is dealt with. But there are matters of great importance coming up in the House this afternoon. I know there are other members who would like to he present here, yet who would like to be in the Banking and Commerce Committee. I suppose it would be possible for us to neglect either the House or the committee, but we certainly cannot be in both places at the same time.


If there are no witnesses to be examined, but simply matters to be brought up that the committee has to consider for the preparation of its report, I cannot see any reason why the committee should not sit, as committees usually do, when the House is not in session. What reason can be advanced for this motion?


The only objection to delay is that, as I understand it, the House is shortly 'to sit in the morning, and we are very anxious, if we can, to finish with the Banking Bill before the morning sittings begin. We expect to find it extremely difficult to continue our sittings when the House has three sittings a day.


If the committees have not finished their business, that is a good reason why the House should not sit in the mornings.


My impression is that
three years ago the House began sitting in the mornings quite early in the session, some time before the right hon. Prime Minuter left for England. It seems to me that after five and a half months' sitting, it is time that the House began to sit in the mornings.


That depends on the business of the House. When the budget speech has been presented and there are no more Bills to be introduced, there is no objection to morning sittings. Nobody cares to sit here much longer. 1 think I have said elsewhere that prorogation was a blessing, and I am of that opinion still. But morning sittings should commence only after all the business is before the House, and the committees have finished their work.


I desire to explain
my own position. I opposed this application in the committee. I have several amendments to move to the Bank Bill, and I did not think we should make the request to the House to be permitted to sit while the House is in session. But since coming into the House it has been intimated to me that the important matters which I had in hand would not be taken Mr. AMES.
up, and of course I have no personal objection to the committee sitting. Of course, I should like ve*y much to be there when other amendments are being considered. Yet it is very important in the interests of my constituents that I should be present in the House this afternoon, and _ so I should not be able to attend the Banking Committee.


Let it stand as a notice of motion to be taken up on Friday.
Motion stands.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What quantity of timber has been sold off the government farm at Kentville from March 1, 1912, to date?
2.	What are the names of the parties to whom sold, the amount purchased by each and price of same?
3.	Have all accounts for timber sold or taken from government farm since March 1, 1912, been paid?
4.	If not, what are the names and amounts of those in arrears?
5.	What is the cost per cord to the Government for firewood delivered from the government farm? .
6.	How many cords of firewood have been sold since March 1, 1912, to date?
7.	To whom is payment made for timber and firewood sold off the farm?


1. 1084 cords of stave wood at $3
per cord		$325
30 trees at $1.50 each		45
2. A. Cecil Margeson, Kentville,	
N.S., 1084 cords stave wood	
at $3 per cord		325
Kenneth Sharp, Kentville, N.S.,	
30 trees at $1.50 each		45
3. Yes.	
4. None.	
5. Two or three dollars per cord,	according to distance of haulage.
6.	2134 cords.
7.	To the superintendent.


What disposition has been made of section 11, township 56, range 26, west of the principal meridian ?


A claim was filed by Mr. Harry Munro for homestead entry for the southwest quarter of this section on the ground of settlement prior to survey, and this quarter section was subsequently surrendered from school lands endowment and homestead entry tnerefore granted to

Mr. Munro under the provisions of sub-section 1 of section 39, of the Dominion Lands Act, and the southeast* quarter of section 30, in the same township was selected in lieu thereof and set apart as school land. Mr. Munro subsequently located half-lbreed scrip on this land and patent issued to him therefore. The 'balance of the section is undisposed of.


* Sir WILRID LAURIER:
1.	What have been the supplementary expenses to the _ regular salary of Mr. St. Amour, superintendent of the Soulanges canal, in each month since he entered into the employment of the Government?
2.	What do these supplementary expenses consist of?
1.	For the month of December, 1911,
$27.75; January, 1912, $39.65; February, 1912, $55.20; March, 1912, $51.20; April, 1912, $67.45; May, 1912, $66.25; June, 1912, $71.70; July, 1912, $82.60; August, 1912, $85.50; September, 1912, $64.80; October, 1912, $60.30; November, 1912, $46.40; December, 1912, $49.90; January, 1913,	$34.40; February,
1913, $21.90; March, 1913, $41.80.
2.	Travelling and hotel expenses in connection with the inspection of canal.


Has Doctor Torrance, Veterinary Director General of Canada, been recently in Nova Scotia? If so, for what purpose, at whose request, and what were his instructions?


Yes. Sometime previously information had been received at the office of the Veterinary Director General that the tuberculin supplied by the Health of Animals Branch to Truro Agricultural College had failed to give reaction, and, as special inquiry was being held in Halifax in relation io this question, the minister instructed Doctor Torrance to proceed to Halifax and give such information as the committee might desire to have.


What are the names and salaries of all customs and preventive officers, respectively, appointed by the present administration in Guysborough county, N.S. ?


Port of Canso, chief port,
E. M. Hurst, acting preventive officer, $700; Larry's river, W. J. Murphy, acting preventive officer, $150; Liscomb, William Hemlow, acting preventive officer, $200; Whitehaven, C. *V. Wells, acting preventive officer, $400; Port Mulgrave, David Murray, acting preventive officer, $400.


How much has been said to the proprietor of the Electric Light Company for lighting the public buildings at Acton Vale, Quebec, from 1st April, 4011, to 1st April, 1912, and from 1st April, 1912, to 1st April, 1913?
1911-1912, $103.05; 1912-
1913, $160.80; total, $263.85.


1.	Has an inquiry been held respecting Napoleon Daigle, keeper of a lighthouse at Boulard, in Lotbiniere, as announced by a newspaper of Quebec?
2.	Who made this inquiry, what was the result and what is the total cost of it?


1.	Yes.
2.	(a) Mr. J. G. H. Bergeron.
(b)	No action is being taken.
(c)	$52.30.


Does the Government intend to complete the works of wharfs under construction, and [DOT]does the Government know that wharfs are indispensable to the transport of agricultural products to the markets of Quebec and Montreal?


(a) Yes, if deemed advisable; (b) Yes.


1.	For what reason was Francois Dore, caretaker of the two lighthouses near the church of St. Antoine de Lotbiniere, Quebec, dismissed ?
2.	Has he been replaced by Gedeon Demers?
3.	Did Mr. Demers take a very active part in the last federal and local elections?
4.	Was there an inquiry, and who recommended this change?


1.	Political partisanship.
2.	Yes.
3.	The department has no information upon this subject.
4.	(a) No; (b) Hon. L. P. Pelletier.


1.	Why has Philias Abel, keener of the lighthouse of the Cote de Lotbiniere, in line with those of La Barre a Boulard, been replaced by Omer Lemay?
2.	Is Omer Lemay a political canvasser of all parties?
3.	Has an inquiry been held concerning
Abel?


1. Lightkeeper, Phileas Abel, has been removed for political partisanship.

2.	The department has no information upon this subject.
3.	Yes.	[DOT]


For a copy of the report made by the inquiring commissioner, Mr. J. H. Bergeron, in the inquiry lately held by him, at Quebec, re Doctor J. D. Page, of Quebec, and of the reports made by the advocate of the complainant and defendant in the same cause, at the request of the inquiring commisisoner.- Mr. Boulay.
For a copy of all letters, papers, memoranda and other documents, dated since January 1, 1912, relating to the Kitsilano Indian reserve in the city of Vancouver.-Mr. Oliver.
For a return showing a list of all the newspapers in Canada in which advertisements 'have been inserted by the Government, or any minister, officer or department thereof, between the 10th day of October, 1906, and 10th October, 1907, and between said dates in each of the years following up to the 10th of October, 11911, together with a statement of the gross amount paid therefor for the years mentioned, to each of the said newspapers or the proprietors of the same.-.Mr. Thornton.
For the production of the original papers, letters, memoranda and other documents comprising file No. 726a, being file quoted from by the Minister of Public "Works on Tuesday, April 17, :19il3.


Stand.


Might I ask why this
motion has stood since yesterday?


My hon. friend is asking for the production of original papers, which I understand is contrary to the rules of the House, and I want to look into the matter.


It has been done before.
Motion stands.
INTERCOLONIAL RAILWAY BRANCH LINES, &c.
House again in Committee on the following proposed resolution-(Mr. Cochrane):
Resolved, that it is expedient to provide that the Minister of Railways and Canals may, subject to the authority of the Governor in Council, construct, .purchase, .lease or otherwise acquire, in whole or in part, any _ railway, railway bridge, railway station, railway terminal, railway ferry or other railway work; and that any such railway or other work shall become a part of the government railway system.
(Mr. Deputy Speaker in the Chair.)
Mr. COCHRANE moved to amend the resolution by inserting after the word * work ' in the fourth line the words:
Mr. HAZEN.
For the construction, purchase, lease or acquisition of which special provision has been made by Parliament.


The minister is asking for large powers in connection with railway construction or purchase. Are there any particular railways which he wishes to purchase or which he desires to have power to construct and if so what are they ?


It is impossible to
say where railways will have to be constructed. We have had quite a discussion in this House on the question and demands for the construction of railways, particularly in Guysborough, Pictou, Cape Breton counties and also in other parts of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick. The lines which are to be purchased or leased is a matter for investigation. We are only taking authority to do it. If the hon. member would wait until the introduction of the Bill so that he would have a copy of it we could proceed with the discussion more intelligently.


No Bill can be
brought in except in conformity with the resolution and it would be much better for the House if the minister would be more direct and give us this information. Does it relate to the branch line Dolicv in connection with the Intercolonial?


Yes.


Why does it not so
state? In 1904 when I was minister and brought down a resolution with respect to the Canada Eastern Railway from Fredericton to Loggieville in New Brunswick


You had already purchased it?


We had entered into an arrangement. We were required to go into the most minute details. Subsequently when the hon. member for South Renfrew (Mr. Graham), in 1910, came to Parliament asking for authority to acquire these selfsame branch line railways, he was required to name them with particularity and indeed exception was taken to the character of his resolution because he did not give in it the full particulars. Exception was taken in 1904 to the character of the information which I laid before the House in support of that resolution which related to one particular railway. Here my hon. friend asks for power, subject to the authority of the Governor in Council:
To construct, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire in whole or in part any railway, &c.
Anywhere, it is not confined to branch lines of the Intercolonial, it could be in the West. It seems to me that before we come down to a discussion of this one subject of the branch lines in connection with the Intercolonial, the resolution should

state just what is in the mind of the hon. minister and the Government. My hon. fnend says that hon. members have been urging construction of this or that line. That is not relevant, that is not an answer to the objection which I make. Hon. members may desire to have certain lines constructed and other hon. member may desire to have certain branch lines acquired but the point is, what has my hon. friend in his mind in respect to the lease or purchase of these lines? If a policy has been decided upon by the Government it should be laid before Parliament and we should have particulars of the lines that it is proposed to acquire, or at least some details. It may be applied to the lines which it is intended to construct. Surely we are entitled to have that information before passing this resolution. We cannot intelligently discuss it without such information. I have asked time and again what the policy of the Government is with respect to the purchase or acquisition of those branch lines and I have been told:	Wait, wait,
you will learn of it at some time in the future. Even now, when a resolution of this far-reaching character is brought here, no information is vouchsafed to us as to any of the particulars in regard to it. I remember that in the discussion on the Canada Eastern Railway resolution the hon. member from Kings took exception to the passage of the Bill till the Government had declared their policy as regards the other branch lines in the maritime provinces or other branch lines connected with the Intercolonial, and that objection taken by him was repeated by other hon. members. They thought it the duty of the minister to say what was the policy of the Government with respect to_ other lines connecting with the Intercolonial. The minister does not indicate that this relates to the Intercolonial or any particular railway which he proposes to acquire or construct. It seems to me that he nas not been direct or frank, that them is something veiled about this. I would like to know what the policy of the Government is in regard to this. Have they in mind the acquisition of any branch lines and, if so, what branch lines have they under consideration? My hon. friend has had an official of his department, a very highly paid expert, during the past year and a half going over these railways. Surely the Government have had a report from that gentleman and surely they have considered that report and the whole question before bringing down this resolution. Or, does the minister seek to get this authority and then afterwards determine upon the policy in respect to the matter? If so, 1 do not think it is treating the House fairly. It is certainly not treating the country fairly and it .is not treating the owners of many branch lines connecting with the Intercolonial fairly. He is seeking power to expropriate any of these lines. I am
quite in accord with him if he comes before Parliament and declares frankly what his policy is and if he states that his policy is to acquire such branch lines as may be even deemed desirable among a certain number of those that will come up to a certain standard. I would heartily approve of such a proposition and I would go further, as I went in 1910 and 1911, I would support the granting of powers of expropriation, not that it may be necessary to expropriate, but that it may facilitate the acquisition of lines by arrangement. I think it is very desirable that the power of expropriation should be in the Bill. I know that in the year 1911, on the occasion when my hon. friend from South Renfrew (Mr. Graham), then Minister of Railways and Canals, moved his resolution, I took exception to it because it did not contain powers of expropriation and because I thought it was in the interests of the country and of the Intercolonial railway that those powers should be taken by him in order that the Government might be able to gdt these roads, if possible, on fair and reasonable terms. Where the owners of the branch lines were unreasonable, it was desirable that the Government should have the power to bring them to book in the interest of the people served by these roads. I shall not refer to my remarks, which were uttered, I think, in May, 1911. But in that instance my hon. friend from South Renfrew was frank in his statement as to what he wanted to do. He was outspoken. I did not think he went far enough and I so said on that occasion. I do not think that my hon. friend (Mr. Cochrane), in this instance is frank with the country in regard to it.


He is decidely frank.


He may be frank,
but not candid. He has, in remarks which he has uttered in this House, given us to understand that he does not want to acquire any branch lines and that he does not think it in the interest of the Intercolonial that they should be so acquired.


I do not think I was as frank as that.


Well, I so understood my hon. friend. Does my hon. friend repudiate that insinuation?


I repudiate the broad statement that was made. I said that I did not want to acquire some of the branch lines.


Well then, my hon.
friend wants to acquire some of them?


Yes.


Why does he not state in his resolution that he does want to acquire certain of them and that he

is coining to Parliament and asking for power to acquire some of them? Evidently my hon. friend has in his mind certain railways that he wishes to acquire.


No.


Well, I gathered that from the statement he made.


I have no particular railway in mind.


There are some lines in connection with the Intercolonial railway that he wishes to acquire and he is seeking power by this resolution, and the Bill which is to follow it, to carry out his wishes in that regard. Perhaps this is no# the occasion when this should be fully discussed, but certainly I do not wish this resolution to have even my silent approval unless I have some further information with regard to it. The course being pursued by my hon. friend is one that was condemned every year that this subject was under discussion in a concrete way. I am entirely in favour of acquiring these railways. If my hon. friend will not go as far as I would and acquire them all, then, on the principle that half a loaf is better than no bread, I would support him with respect to the acquisition of some of them at least, but I think it would be fair to this House and to the country that he should take us into his confidence as to just what he wants to do by means of this resolution, what he purposes to do and what the policy of the Government is in respect to the subject.
He has harnessed up the two propositions, although they are distinct-one, that of acquiring railways already in existence and the other, that of constructing new railways. I do not think that they should be combined in one resolution, and I think that they should be considered separately and each upon its own merits. In the matter of the acquisition of lines already in existence, I certainly think the resolution should mention those railways that the minister has * in mind, the railways which the Government have had under consideration with a view to their acquisition. I remember very distinctly the exceptions that were taken to resolutions of a similar character in previous years and the principle was propounded in this House that, before the Government should seek powers, such as are sought by this resolution, they should give the fullest possible and even detailed information. That was the principle that was supported by my hon. friends when they were sitting on this side of the House, and I think they should live up to it to-day, although they have got into the habit of not living up to any cf the principles/which they supported when in Opposition. This is a resolution which, in my judgment, should Mr. EMMERSON.
not have our approval until we have the information. I want to support any policy that will mean the acquisition of these railways and even the construction of certain others, but surely my hon. friend is not serious in coming to the House and asking for_ such general powers to construct railways. If we pass this Bill, the minister could build a railway anywhere in Canada without reference to the present Government system of railways. Surely he has no such idea in contemplation; surely he knows what railway he wishes to construct, and if so why should the information not he set forth in this resolution as it was in the resolution submitted in May, 1911? I took exception to that resolution because I thought there should be certain coal railways in Nova Scotia that should be included in it and because the terms of the resolution did not give sufficient detailed information. I am almost tempted to doubt that the Minister of Railways is in earnest with respect to the acquisition of branch lines connected with the Intercolonial railway, judging from the character of this resolution.


Is that fair?


I think that is a fair statement.


That is a pretty strong statement.


The resolution would almost lead me to believe that the Government has decided upon a different policy.


That is better; you
say 'almost' now; not altogether.


I want to be fair and I want to state the case as it appears to me from the wording of the resolution. No one reading the resolution would conclude it had reference to the acquisition of the branch lines connecting with the Intercolonial or that the minister would confine himself to the construction of railways as feeders to that line. If the minister has the intention, as he says he has, of applying this to the Intercolonial branch lines, why does he not incorporate it in the resolution? Nothing could be more indefinite and uncertain in its terms than this resolution, which asks for unreserved and unrestricted power which Parliament would be recreant to its duty if it granted.


It is much to be regretted that upon this question of acquiring the branch lines of the Intercolonial, extraneous matters should be included in the resolution, which tend to promote differences of opinion among the members in this House. On more than one occasion the House has expressed its opinion on the

desirability of the Government acquiring the branch lines and operating them as part of the Intercolonial system. Had the minister submitted a resolution simply providing for authority to lease or to purchase such branch lines on proopr terms, there would, I think, be no objection from any member of this House. We have the evidence that we are unanimously of the opinion, in the interests of the Intercolonial and in the interests of the'country, which is served by these branch lines, that they should be taken over and operated as part of the Intercolonial railway. The resolution as first submitted reads:
That it is expedient to provide that the Minister of Railways may, subject to the authority of the Governor in Council, construct, purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire, in whole or in part any railway, railway bridge, railway station, railway terminal, railway ferry, or other railway work, and that any such railway or other work shall become part of the Government railway system.
That gives a power which the minister must realize is greater than was ever given or ever thought of to be given to any minister or any government. Under that resolution, which does not seem to have been drawn with any care, the Government could commit this country to purchase a railway hundreds of miles away from the Intercolonial; it could undertake the construction of anyrailway in any part of the Dominion, and even though Parliament might not afterwards provide the money to pay the hills, the contractor could enter suit in the Exchequer Court and recover against the Government for whatever obligation the Government entered into with him. Evidently upon consideration the minister has considered it would not be desirable to press such a resolution and he proposes to amend it as follows:
To insert after the word ' work ' in line four the words for the construction, purchase, lease, or acquisition of which special provision has been made by Parliament.
Under that amendment it seems to me that the whole matter is rendered nugatory so far as immediate action is concerned. If the resolution is passed with this prohibitory clause in it, my hon. friend must still come to Parliament for authority to lease or to buy any of these branches, or to construct any new lines. That 3imply means more delay, possibly until another session of Parliament.


What would you have me put in the resolution?


I would limit it entirely to branch lines of the Intercolonial, because it is in respect of those that Parliament is already committed by a resolution just as strong as this one would be if it
were put through in this emasculated form It would simply be a declaration that this House is in favour of leasing or purchasing or building any line of railway which the Government may hereafter be authorized by Parliament to lease or to purchase or to build. It is simply an academic resolution, which gives no authority whatever to take any action. My hon. friend must see that he cannot move hand or foot if the resolution is passed with this prohibitive clause in it, because he must still come to Parliament and get this special authority. What I would do would be this: I would authorize the Governor in Council to lease for a long term of years any of the branch lines of the Intercolonial on terms to be approved by the Governor in Council, with the provision that the lease shall be submitted to Parliament at the next session after it is entered into. I am willing, and I have no doubt this House is willing, to trust the Governor in Council in regard to the leasing of the branch lines. There could not be any mistake as to that because the Government have a record of its past earnings and they could get a report of the board of management and of the engineers of the Intercolonial. If any branch lines are to be purchased, I would leave that entirely as a matter of appropriation, or I would provide in the Bill that, if it was decided to purchase any of the branch lines, a board of arbitration should be appointed by agreement to determine as to what was a reasonable price. If there was any difficulty so far as a lease was concerned, the same provision might be made. We would then be taking a step forward instead of, if this resolution were passed, being in exactly the same position as we were before.


What would you do
if we leased a line next summer? How would we operate that line unless we got an appropriation from Parliament?


That would be provided in a vote for the Intercolonial system. The minister would have to come down with his supplementary estimates, and ask Parliament to vote what additional amount he would require for that purpose.


That would bring the matter hack to the condition which my hon. friend says is useless and unworkable, namely, an appropriation in the first place by Parliament.


I do not think so.


My hon. friend found
fault a moment ago with the proposal of the minister, because he said that it all rests with the approval of the appropriation by Parliament, and therefore the minister's hands are completely tied. My hon.

friend is now suggesting exactly the same thing-an appropriation by Parliament before the minister shall act.


No. That is so far as the operation is concerned, but you must first get a lease of the road.


What is the use of acquiring a road if you cannot operate it?


If Parliament authorized the lease, Parliament would vote the necessary appropriation to operate. The difficulty is that you cannot acquire a road; you cannot lease it; you cannot make any agreement at all under this resolution, as it is proposed to be amended. Then why pass the resolution at all? The point is that provision should be made of a definite character for the leasing or acquiring by purchase of the branch lines of the In-tetrcolonial, the leasing or purchase to be left to the Governor in Council, and provision could be made that, if the Government and the companies could not agree upon the price, it could be left to a board of arbitration, or the amount to be expended could be fixed by a referee or by the judge of the Exchequer Court, whatever might be the best way of doing it. On this resolution or on a Bill founded upon it, the minister cannot take any action. He cannot lease a road; he cannot buy one.


I could put in the
supplementary estimates an extra sum for the Intercolonial with this in view. If any road were leased this session under this Bill, we could commence to operate it and bring down the lease at the next session of Parliament for approval. I think under the resolution we can do it.


If the resolution is
passed, my hon. friend would decide what lines he would acquire; he would ask a supplementary vote for that and proceed after that to acquire the line, so that he could depend on the appropriation?


Yes.


If that ft the intention of my hon. friend, possibly it could be worked out in that way. I am anxious that we take some step forward in connection with this important matter. I would be very sorry to say a word which would hinder or delay the carrying through of the idea which my hon. friend from Westmorland (Mr. Emmerson), has contended for so long, and to which he succeeded in getting the unanimous approval of this House in a resolution passed some time ago. My hon. friend the Minister of Railways is desirous of carrying out the wish of the House. The only question is how best to do it. Although I do not agree with the mode in which he proposes to do Mr. BORDEN.
it, I would be very sorry to throw any obstacle in the way. In the province from which I come there is an exceedingly strong, and in fact intense desire that these branch lines should be taken over and operated as a part of the Intercolonial system. It is felt that the public would be very greatly benefited by that, and although for a few years these lines might not be profitable, in the final result most of them could be worked up into valuable feeders and would fee beneficial not only to the public but to the Intercolonial system as well.


Even as amended, this resolution is very broad on one point, that is, as to the location of any lines that might be leased, any new work that might be constructed or any railways or terminals that might be purchased. On looking over the resolution, I am inclined to think that one could almost, for instance, build a railway1 in connection with the Hudson Bay railway.


We are building the Hudson Bay railway.


You are doing it under a special statute.


Yes.


But I think under this
resolution a railway could be constructed not in connection with the Intercolonial or the Prince Edward Island railway at all, but in some other part of Canada. Would it fee possible, on the second reading or in Committee of the Whole, to consider an amendment to effect what is desired? This is a resolution on which the Bill is to be founded, and I understand that you cannot go very far in making amendments at this stage.


It seems to me the difficulty about this amended resolution is perhaps that it ties the hands of the minister a little too much. In its original form it was probably too wide, for example, in respect to the possibility of building a road in the West which the hon. member for South Renfrew (Mr. Graham) has mentioned. There is no idea of building a road in the West or in connection with the Hudson Bay railway under this -resolution. The minister has in mind the acquisition of certain lines in the maritime provinces, a subject which has been touched upon very often in this House, and possibly the construction of short branches of the Intercolonial railway, as I am informed by the minister, that the powers under the Railway Act for such purposes, are limited to five miles.
The hon. member for Westmorland (Mr. Emmerson) thought this resolution was too wide without the words now proposed to

be added, which were not included in the resolution, but which form part of the Bill, and which for some reason were omitted from the resolution by the officer of the House who prepared it. Without these words the resolution certainly was of a very ample character; with these words added to it as my hon. friend from St. John suggests, it is very much restricted. I think it would be possible to work it out in the way the hon. gentleman himself suggested a little while ago, that is, to have an appropriation from Parliament at the present session enabling the .minister to proceed. As to what the hon. member for Westmorland has said concerning the desirability of indicating at the present time certain lines of railways to be acquired, I think that members of the committee will see upon consideration that that would be impossible at the present moment, because the acquisition of any particular branch line roust depend upon a certain investigation which, I think, has not been complete or has not been-
Mr. COCHRANE; Is not complete.


-or which has not been put into a satisfactory form up to the present time. One object, the principal object of the minister, as I understand, in introducing the resolution, was to get a certain power to negotiate, or a basis of negotiating, which would enable him to go on and do something. The resolution as at first introduced was quite unrestricted, there is no doubt about that.


No closure on it.


It was unrestricted for the reason that a portion of it as drafted was omitted. Now, I would not like to suggest at the moment any other amendment of the resolution which I think was prepared by the department-


No, by the law clerk of the House.


It is just possible that we might be able to devise some amendment to tne resolution as is proposed wnich would meet the views of hon. gentlemen on both sides more adequately than does the somewhat restricted form in which .the resolution appears as amended.


My object is to make this Bill workable. The resolution is too wide as introduced but this amendment restricts it too much. I do not want to block the Bill, I want to get it through in workable shape. I understand the difficulties of working this out fairly well for I have tried it. In the first place there is one thing we ought to keep cleariy m mind and that is that the Dill is for the purpose of leasing or constructing roads in connection with the Intercolanial and Prince Edward Island railway in the maritime provinces or Quebec. My own idea is that the minister ought to have a pretty free hand in leasing. Leave him free to lease, u ,C	simply on condition that
he shall place a copy of the lease on the table of the House at the next session of Parliament As to purchase or construction, I think he ought to come to Parliament and tell us what he is going to do. I think that, after discussion, our ideas are about on the same line as to working out this problem, and the best way to do it.


Will the minister
say whether he has any survey parties in Nova Scotia just now with reference to finding a short line of communication between Moncton and Halifax? I heard a rumour when in Nova Scotia that some engineering parties, supposed to be for the Government, were working in the countv of Colchester.


We have none in that section. There was last summer an investigation on the Sydney branch with a view to bettering the conditions-shortening the line where we could and taking out the grades. I hope to have a party this summer on the section of railway the hon. gentleman speaks of. But there is none yet that I know of.


Would the minister in making an investigation and sending his engineers instruct his officers to see that .an investigation is made as to the advisability of utilizing what is known as the Short Link railway from Oxford Junction to New^ Glasgow as a possibility in connection with the shorter route he wishes to have?


This does restrict the minister very materially-


Too much.


You wanted it restricted.


I want it restricted to the Intercolonial railway and branches connecting with it; but I want the minister to have power to do something, and
T think this would restrict him so that he could not do anything.


The instructions were to shorten and better the road in any possible way. The report is not out yet. They aTe working it through.


Is the minister prepared to let me know if the two reports made as to the Timiscouata road that runs from Edmundston down to Riviere du Loup are final or whether if there are going to be further reports on this line? Also, if this line is settled one way or the

other to be leased or purchased by the Government?


I can hardly answer as to that until we have made an agreement. Most of the reports made so far are on the physical condition of the roads and not to the traffic or what might be expected to be realized as time goes on and the country develops. As I said some time ago about building the Guysborough roau, we should have a traffic report before we come to a definite understanding so that when we come down for either purchase or lease we may be able to give definite information as- to what the purchase or lease will realize in the future.


Then the inspection
made last summer was not final?


It was only a physical inspection and not as to the possibilities of earning power.


Will further investigation
and reports on these lines in Nova Scotia be necessary 'to determine whether _ they should be taken over or leased, or is the report made by Mr. Kirkpatrick sufficient to enable the Government to come to a decision?


That was only an investigation of the physical condition of the road, and what it would take to put it into shape. As to the future possibilities, there has been no inspection made, ouch an investigation will have to be made by a traffic man to have it authentic.


Is the report made bv Mr. Kirkpatrick available to members of the House?


No.


Will the minister place it on the table?


I do not think it is
advisable to give any such information until something has been done in the matter; then I think the House and everybody else is entitled to full information.


I am in #avour of this resolution, and I do not see that there should be very much difficulty in making it satisfactory to both sides of the House. I think the Government ought to have power to lease branch lines without first submitting the proposal to Parliament, and to purchase branch lines subject to the approval of Parliament. If the minister had brought down a resolution of that kind, authorizing him to lease and to purchase branch lines of the Intercolonial railway subject to the subsequent approval of Parliament, he would have met with no opposition, because that would be the proper way to proceed. It will be readily recognized that it would not be advisable to com-Mr. GAUVREAU.
pel the minister to come to Parliament and announce in advance what lines he intended to purchase, because in that case he would clearly be obliged to pay a great deal more for the lines than he otherwise would. But when he has made the best possible bargain, it ought to be subject to the approval of Parliament, and the agreement of purchase should oe ratified by this House before it finally becomes effective.
I hope the minister will be able to put himself in a position to take some forward steps in regard to this very important matter. I do not resard the resolution as being of much importance as far as the construction of new branch lines is concerned because the minister must come to Parliament to obtain the money before he can construct them. I was told bv the minister the other day that he had already informed the House as to his policy with regard to new branches, but the information he gave us is very indefinite. So far as I can recollect the only matter in respect of which he has taken us into his confidence is that some time in the future he intends to find out whether there is sufficient traffic to warrant the .construction of the proposed branch lines. I would like very much to know when he intends to do that, and if that is preliminary to taking any decisive step in regard to the proposed new branches.


I understand that by this resolution the hon. minister is acquiring all the power necessary to enable him to purchase branch lines but that he cannot exercise that power until an appropriation is voted by Parliament.


That would be for a
purchase, not a lease. Something would have to be put in the supplementary estimates this year in order to carry it out.


Before the hon. minister
decides upon what lines he should acquire I would like to impress upon him what I consider to be the necessity of acquiring an important branch line known as the Temiscouata road. That branch, which is seventy miles in length, extends from Riviere du Loup on the Intercolonial railway to Edmundston, N.B. I think the late Government intended to acquire the Quebec Central railway which touches the Intercolonial at Harlaka Junction, but since the late Government was turned out of power by what I consider to be an unfortunate mistake on the part of the electors, the Canadian Pacific railway leased the Quebec Central railway for a period of ninety-nine years. The Quebec Central runs from Levis southwards to Valley Junction, and then east covering about one "hundred miles, towards Cabano. Cabano, by the way, is touched by the Temiscouata railway. The intention is to continue the extension of the Quebec Cen-

tral towards Cabano on the Temiscouata. When the Canadian Pacific railway, or the Quebec Central, has reached Cabano, it is likely that all the traffc on the Temiscouata railway will be drawn from the Temiscouata territory down the Quebec Central railway to L6vis, and that will be a distinct loss to the Intercolonial railway. The Quebec Central railway will run to Cabano within a few years, and I think it is very important, in the interests of the Intercolonial, that the Temiscouata line should be acquired as soon as possible. The Canadian Pacific railway has a branch line extending from St. John via Fredericton Junction and Aroostook to Edmundston, and this makes greater the danger that the traffic of this district will be taken away from the Intercolonial. The Temiscouata runs through a district very rich in timber; the lumber industry on that line, as on the Quebec Central railway, is very large and remunerative. For these reasons I hope the hon. minister will take action in this regard by placing an appropriation in the supplementary estimates to secure this branch line and to make of it an important feeder of the Intercolonial railway.


I desire to add a few words to the remarks made by my hon. friend and to thank him for what he has .said on behalf of the Temiscouata. It is not only the Intercolonial that is to profit from the acquisition of that line. I think the minister will realize that, as the road from Riviere du Loup to Edmundston is a short one, the railroad is obliged to charge very high rates, and this has been a great source of complaint from the farmers of that district. The acquisition of this road, therefore, would provide for a reduction of the rates, and thus be a great benefit to the farmers of that community. I think it is in the best interests of the Intercolonial, as well as of the farmers, that the Government, either by lease or purchase, should acquire the Temiscouata road from Rivifere du Loup to Edmundston.


I would ask the minister whether he has in view the acquisition of the Caraquet and South Shore lines running from Gloucester to Tracadie. I have pointed out to the House the advantage of that line as a feeder to the Intercolonial.


That is a question
which I do not think I can answer, because I do not propose to announce what lines or any lines I propose to take or to investigate. I know that they are willing to make some agreement with the Government. That is as far as I can go.


I called the attention of the minister to the need of a railway from Antigonish to Country Harbour through the South River valley. I asked the minister on the 27th March,
1912, if he had in contemplation the making of a survey of that suggested route. He said:
I can say to the hon. gentleman that I hope to investigate the best route for the railway. During my trip of investigation I shall investigate all routes and decide on the best.
I asked the House this session whether an investigation had been made and the answer was, not so far as the minister was aware of. There was a local by-election in the county of Antigonish in January and promises were made that a railway would be built through there if the results of the election were satisfactory to the powers that be. Letters from the minister were exhibited and referred to, to the effect that a railway would be built through there. Has the minister given instructions to have a survey made of the route and, if not, when does he intend that a survey of the route shall be made?


I have not given the instructions and will take the balance of what my hon. friend has said into consideration.
I beg to withdraw the present resolution and to substitute the following:
Resolved, that it is expedient to provide that the Minister of Railways and Canals may, subject to the authority of the Governor in Council, construct, purchase, lease or otherwise acquire, in whole or in part, any railway, railway bridge, railway station, railway terminal, railway ferry or other railway work in the provinces of Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island, or in any or either of the said provinces which in his opinion can more conveniently and usefully be operated as part of the government system of railways, or which may be deemed necessary or desirable for the more efficient operation of the said system.
Provided, however, that a copy of every such lease, or contract of purchase shall be laid before Parliament within one month after the execution thereof, if Parliament is then in session, or if Parliament is not then sitting within ten days after the opening of the next session thereafter.
Provided further that no such line of railway so leased, purchased or otherwise acquired shall exceed two hundred miles in length in any single instance.
Provided further that no contract for the construction of a line of railway exceeding twenty-five miles in length shall be entered into until after a sum of money for the purpose shall have been appropriated by Parliament.
Provided further that any such railway, or other work when so constructed, leased purchased or otherwise acquired shall form part of the government system of railways and shall be subject to the provisions of the Act respecting government railways and the Acts in amendment thereof.



Provided further that no such railway shall he so constructed, leased, purchased or otherwise acquired unless it directly connects with some part of the then existing system of government railways.


The last part of the
amendment requiring that the roads must connect with some portion of the existing system of Government railways, would require amendment. Take, for instance, the two railways in the county of Gaspe and Bonaventure, only one of them would come under that description.


We would not want the second one if we did not have the first.


But it might make it
clearer because, according to the last line of the amendment, only the first one hundred miles would be admissible as there are two different railways.


The northern portion
could not he acquired under this until the road directly connecting with the Intercolonial had first been acquired and become a part of the Intercolonial. The word ' then ' before ' existing ' would cover such a case.


What progress has
been made in the direction of arriving at an agreement with the Canadian Pacific railway in reference to running powers over the existing line of the Intercolonial?


I am sorry to say
that the negotiations have not yet been completed? The Canadian Pacific railway desire some things which I do not think the Intercolonial can give and we have not overcome the existing differences; but the matter has not been dropped.


A
moment ago I asked the minister for some information with respect to the intention oi the Government regarding a proposed line from Antigonish to Country Harbour. He answered that the matter was under consideration. We know how much that answer means. Am I to understand from his answer th