Mr. MICHAEL STEELE (South Perth) presented the report of the Select Standing Committee on Private Bills.
Return showing quotations of different classes of Grand Trunk Railway Company's stock in January 1918, etc.-Hon. Mr. Reid (Grenville).
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	What rates are paid now as compared with 1916 on Canadian National Railways, per month, per day, or per hour, for the following classes of employees :-Engineers, Firemen, Conductors, Trainmen, Shop Mechanics, Carmen, Agents and Operators, Freight Shed Men, Trackmen, Bridge and Building Men?
2.	Have there been any particular changes since 1916 in working conditions, such as length of working day, overtime regulations, etc., which further increased compensation over changes in rates, if so, what are such changes for each of the classes named in Question number one?
3.	What would be the comparative monthly compensation as between now and 1916 paid each to engineers, firemen, conductors, and trainmen (allowing average overtime conditions), in the following classes of service:- Through passenger run, Local passenger run. Through freight service, Local freight service.
4.	What are the monthly earnings as compared with 1916 for the following classes of employees working full regular working hours :[DOT]-Shop Mechanics, Carmen, Agents and Operators, Freight Shed Men, Trackmen, Bridge and Building Men?
5.	What would be the monthly earnings of the classes of employees named in question 4 if required to work the same regular working hours as existed in 1916 at present rates as compared with the rates paid in 1916?
6.	Do any of the classes of employees named in the foregoing questions receive any compensation or privileges in addition to their rates of pay, such as commissions, free or reduced rental, living accommodation, fuel, light, transportation, etc? If so, in a general way what are such concessions and what are they valued at in individual cases?


The answer is a very lengthy one and would take about half an hour to read. The subject, however, is a very important one and if possible I would like the information to appear in Hansard.


Dispense with the reading of it.
[Note.-The answer to the foregoing question is given as an appendix to this days Debates.


1.	How many promotions have been made in the Toronto Post Office since February 1, 1921?
2.	Under what authority were the promotions made?
3.	What are the names of the persons so promoted?


1.	Two. There may be certain officers in the Toronto Post Office whose rating was improved under the reclassification but these cannot be regarded as promotions.
2.	Under the authority of the Civil Service Commission.
3.	Miss E. A. Robinson and H. Davis.


1.	Did the Government of Canada, at any time during the past six years, pay compensation to the Rev. N. Tappert, an American citizen resident, some years ago, in the city of Kitchener, for injury suffered at the hands of a mob?
2.	If so, what was the amount of said compensation?
3.	If not, was any demand for compensation made, at what date and by whom?


1.	No.
2 and 3. Answered by No. 1.


1.	Did the steamer Canadian Beaver sail from Halifax for Barbados on or about March 28, 1921?
2.	Is this steamer equipped for passengers? If so, for how many?
3.	How many passengers did this vessel carry on the said trip?
4.	What is her deadweight tonnage and how many tons of freight did she carry from Halifax on said trip?


1.	The Customs reports indicate that the steamer Canadian Beaver cleared from Halifax for Barbados on or about March 26, 1921.
2.	No.
3.	The department has no information.
4.	The deadweight tonnage of the vessel is 3,9724 tons. The department has no information as to the quantity of freight carried on the voyage referred to.


1.	How many road foremen of engines are at
present employed by the Canadian National Railways?	,
2.	What are the wages paid to said employees?
3.	What are the duties of said employees?


1.	Officers formerly known as Road Foremen of Engines are now called Assistant Master Mechanics. There are 32 now employed on Canadian National railways.
2.	Various rates from $250 to $325 per month.
3.	Assistant Master Mechanics deal with mechanical matters on Superintendents'



Divisions to which they are assigned, including supervision of enginemen and shop staffs.


1.	What is the total number of persons in the employ of the Dominion Government, including bbth the inside and outside services, hut not including the Canadian National Railways?
2.	How many persons are in the employ of the Canadian National Railways?


X, How many employees has the Government in the British Isles?
2.	What is the number of departments maintained?
3.	How many employees has the Government in the United States?
4.	What is the number of departments maintained?


On the Orders of the Day:
Before the Orders of the Day are called I would like to ask a question of the Government with reference to a despatch from the special correspondent of the Montreal Gazette, appearing in that paper I believe on Monday last, to the effect that the Government has decided upon a grain inquiry, and that the two commissioners in the said inquiry would he Judge Hyndman, of Edmonton, and Mr. Staples, one of the present Board of Grain Commissioners. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if that statement is correct?


The Government has not appointed any person on the grain inquiry, nor has there been any Order put through for an inquiry under the Act. Requests have been made to see if certain parties would accept; beyond that nothing has been done.


I would further ask if the Government has decided upon such inquiry, and if so when it will be undertaken?


The Government's decisions in these matters are embodied in Orders in Council, as my hon. friend very well knows from his experience and from his undoubted intelligence, and when the Order is passed it will appear.


Not a very illuminating reply.


Do you expect anything else?

On motion of Sir Henry Drayton (Minister of Finance) the House went into Committee of Supply, Mr. Boivin in the Chair.


Resolved that a sum not exceeding $71,499,703.70, being one-sixth of the amount of each of the several items set forth in the main Estimates for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1922, and one-sixth of the amount of the item for a provisional bonus allowance for the Inside and Outside services of the Civil Service, set forth in the Supplementary Estimate for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1922, be granted to His Majesty for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1922.


How much?


It would perhaps be better for the Chairman to again repeat the motion. It is made by the hon. Minister of Finance for one-sixth of the entire Supply for the present year. Is it the pleasure of the committee to adopt the motion?
? Mr. MACKENZIE KING: Mr. Chairman, I think very strong exception should be taken to acceding to the request of the Government. We on this side of the House have repeatedly pointed out that the only way in which the public can exercise its control over expenditures is to have ample opportunity of discussing the Estimates in detail before any part of them is voted. We wish to preserve the public in that right, particularly as the expenditures are mounting up as never before in the history of this country, the total Estimates for this year thus far presented being between $500,000,000 and $600,000,000. We have had very little opportunity of discussing these Estimates, many items of which are liable to be subjected to considerable criticism and, we hope, considerable reduction. Without giving the House full opportunity of considering all the Estimates, we contend that we should not be called upon to vote blindly one-sixth of the total amount as the Government is asking.
I would point out that at the conclusion of last session we drew the attention of the Government to the circumstance that in order to give Parliament the opportunity it should have to control public expenditures, it was desirable that Parliament should be called earlier in the new calender year, if not before the close of the year preceding, and we received assurances from members of the Government that such

would be done. The fact that Parliament was not called until the middle of February is no fault of hon. members, it is entirely the fault of the ministry. Under these circumstances, Mr. Chairman, standing on the broad principle of the right of the people to a full knowledge of what is to be done with the money which they are obliged to pay in the form of taxation, we must take strong exception to granting the portion of the Supply asked for and so depriving the House of the opportunity of discussing the items in detail.
But in taking this stand we have no desire in any way to embarrass or penalize the Civil Service because of any neglect on the part of the Government, we will be perfectly willing to consider any arrangement with a view of providing what may be necessary in the way of salaries both for the Inside and Outside Services. As respects other expenditures, however, we contend that except as agreed upon, this Parliament should have the full right of examining in the closest detail every item of the Estimates before voting any portion of them.	'	^


Mr. Chairman, it is quite correct that the hon. leader of the Opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) did draw the attention of the Government to the advisability of having the business brought down at an earlier date, and I think it has been. It is quite true that he also, during last session, took exception to the practice of voting interim Supply. His objections are objections which apply to a principle that has obtained for many years, and I am very much afraid that, apart altogether from what we might like to do, the exigencies of parliamentary government mean that this principle of interim Supply is something which we will have to continue. It is not a new principle. that is being now attacked, nor is it a principle which is confined to Canada. It is something which has to be done in every country where parliamentary government is carried on and the public moneys are dependent upon the votes of deliberative associations or parliaments.
In view of the objection raised by my hon friend on the matter of principle, I have taken the trouble to look up one or two precedents to see just exactly what this principle is and what it is founded upon. I will read in the first instance from "Procedure in the British House of Commons," by Redlich, a leading authority. This is what he says:
106J
There is no need here to add anything to what has already been said about the former (Supplementary Estimates), but it is necessary to study a little more closely the mode in which the (House of Commons provides for current necessities before the final Estimates are adopted. The peculiarity consists in the fact that a grant on account, a temporary provision for national financial administration, has been converted into a necessary organic part of the year's finance. As the financial year closes on the 31st March, and Parliament does not receive the Estimates until about the beginning of the same month, it is absolutely impossible for the year's Supply to be granted before the year begins. Moreover, the traditional arrangement of parliamentary business makes the extension of the debate on Supply over the whole length of the session, or at all events over the greater part of it, an indispensable necessity of political tactics and parliamentary management. On the other hand, the Government must have money by the first of April, and can only get it from Parliament. The annual provision required is not made, as in most Continental countries, by giving temporary authority to levy taxes and incur expenses on the same footing as in the old year, nor is there a grant of an aliquot part of the estimated total as in the case of the twelfths of the French budget. The method adopted brings out clearly the financial supremacy of the House of Commons which grants votes on account, advances on the basis _ of the Estimates laid before the House.
At one time, Mr. Chairman, we had not as much difficulty in connection with interim Supply as we have had of recent years. When our fiscal year ended on June 30, as there was that much longer time greater progress could be made with the Estimates. But even under the old regime-and I have not thought it necessary to go back more than a certain number of years-when the fiscal year ended on June 30, I find that in the session of 1899 interim Supply was passed in connection with the following dates: Parliament opened on March 16, closed on August 11; main Estimates were tabled on April 24-over a month after Parliament opened-and the interim Supply was voted on July 5. Then again, in 1903, we had an interim vote of one-fifth and the dates were: Parliament opened on March 12, closed October 24; main Estimates tabled March 16, interim Supply voted on July 8. In the following year, 1904, there was an interim Supply Bill. Then the fiscal year is changed, and the change becomes effective in the year 1906-07. In 1907 the interim Supply Bill was for one-fifth. In 1908 there were two interim Supply Bills, the first for one-eighth and the second for one-eighth. In 1909 the interim Supply voted was one-fourth; in 1910, one-fourth. In 1911 there were two, the first-


May I ask the minister
where this resolution is to be found on the Order Paper?


It is not on
the Order Paper. The resolution is brought up in the ordinary way in committee, notice having been given the night before last.


I understand that the
minister is now introducing a resolution upon which a Bill is to be based.


This is in
Supply. It is a motion for interim Supply.


It will be a Bill for
interim Supply?


A motion for interim Supply, on which, of course, a Bill will subsequently be founded, just as a bill is subsequently founded on the main motion for Supply.


Then I rise to a point
of order. If a bill for interim Supply is to be based on the resolution, I submit that the resolution should have been preceded by notice. There has been no notice of the resolution; it is not on the Order Paper, and I submit that any discussion of it at this stage is not in order.


Unless I am
entirely wrong, the hon. member will find that notice of a motion 'of this kind has never been given. Notice is not given of motions made in Committee of Supply; they all come under the general motion with reference to Supply.


There is a distinction
to be made. To-day the Speaker left the Chair without motion and we automatically went into Supply; if we had taken up the Estimates of one special department the minister at the head of that department could have introduced a resolution and no notice would have been necessary. But this is altogether different. The minister in introducing a resolution now is laying the foundation for a money Bill, and such a resolution should be preceded by notice. We have had no notice and I submit that the procedure followed by the minister is altogether irregular and that the committee at this stage cannot consider the resolution. This is a resolution preceding an interim money Bill; it is not the ordinary going into Supply to consider the Estimates of one particular department.


Does any other hon.
gentleman desire to speak to the point of order before a decision is given?


I should like
to say, Mr. Chairman, that I have been unable to find any cases in which such

notice has been given as the hon. gentleman suggests. The practice followed is the practice indicated by the law officers of the Crown as being the correct one.


The point of order,
as I understand it, which has been raised by the hon. member for Dorchester (Mr Cannon) is that as the House to-day went automatically into Committee of Supply and we are not considering the Estimates of any particular department, this resolution should have been preceded by notice. There is nothing in the rules of the House, nothing in the procedure and in the precedents reported by different authors on the subject, which in any way indicates that a resolution for interim Supply-in other words, a vote on account-must be nreceded by a notice of motion of any kind. The Estimates were submitted to Parliament with a message from the Governor General; they were referred to the Committee of Supply and the entire Estimates are before that committee to be dealt with as the committee may see fit. If the Committee of Supply desires to vote at one time ont-fifth or one-sixth of the total amount, the committee certainly has that right. Therefore, so far as the question of notice is concerned, no notice is required, and I would so rule. The hon. member for Dorchester did, however, draw attention to the fact that to-day the Speaker-


I did not hear the hon. member raise the other point to which you are now proceeding, Mr. Chairman, as to this being Thursday; I would like to have spoken to it. I feel that a reading of the rule would make it clear that it was not intended to apply to prevent a motion for interim Supply being made on Thursday.


Why?


I will give the reason in a moment. If the Chair held that that was the rule, I do not know that the Government would be at any disadvantage, because if it is the meaning of the rule that we cannot take a general vote on a fraction of Supply on Thursday or Friday unless all departments have been in Supply previously, then necessarily if we were to move a motion for interim Supply on Tuesday, on Thursdays and Fridays, after that we could go on with anything. It would work both ways, and I think that was never intended.


I shall not deal now with the general question of notice; I shall, if I am permitted, deal with that a moment later. Under the rules-rules, by

the way, for which I do not think we on this side are particularly responsible, but rules which in its judgment the House at the time of their adoption deemed wise-the House may go into Supply on Thursday and Friday without any delay, without any debate. But there is a condition attached- that you cannot take up in the Committee on those days the Estimates of any department which have not previously been under consideration. Now, there are a number of departments the Estimates of which have not yet been under consideration. I think I am correct in saying that, though I know the right hon. gentleman would endeavour to get around the rule by taking an odd item here and there and in that way bringing in all the departments. Now, if vve could not under that rule take up a given item in any one of these departments whose Estimates have not previously been considered, I do not see how we can take them all in bulk. It seems to me that a motion of this kind can only be adopted by general consent or agreement.


I simply want to
emphasize again the fact that if that view is held, it necessarily follows that on Thursday and Friday we can go into Supply on any department at all.


We will argue that when it occurs.


There is no question at all that that follows; that there is no escape from it. I do not think that would be fair to the House, though it certainly would be a great advantage to the Government.


As this further point has now been discussed by the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Meighen) and by the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's (Mr. Fielding), I must point out that Rule 17c states, in part:
On Thursdays and Fridays.... Mr. Speaker shall leave the Chair without putting any question, provided that, except by the consent of the House, the Estimates of each department shall be first taken up on a day other than Thurday or Friday.
There are in the Estimates which are now being considered in the interim Supply vote the Estimates of all departments, and the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's has pointed out that the Estimates of a number of those departments have not yet been considered. For that reason, they cannot be considered on a Thursday or a Friday without the unanimous consent of this committee and the Chair is obliged to so rule.
If the committee desires the Chairman to continue the ruling and decide the question of what may happen later-


I submit that the
Chairman ought not to be asked to decide now what he will do next week. I do not desire to take technical grounds of objection. I would like to assist the Minister of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton) if I could in this matter, because I know from experience the embarrassments suffered on occasions of this kind. The real difficulty is, of course, that the Government-and perhaps other governments have done likewise-have been slow in summoning Parliament. Parliament should be called early, and the idea of Parliament being summoned to meet early in February and expected to get a Supply Bill through before the end of March, is unreasonable. I have no doubt, however, my hon. friend can cite previous cases where Parliament has not been called early. We all want to see that members of the Civil Service at Ottawa-and I would not confine this to Ottawa; wherever there is a wage earner in the employ of the Government-should receive their salaries. Because they are not usually rich men. I think a reasonable view of the matter would be that the hon. gentleman should ask by common consent of the House- and I do not want to oppose him-for a vote on account, with the condition that it will be applied only to wages, salaries and things of that sort. Let me state my reasons for taking this ground. As an illustration, suppose there are large sums which have been appropriated for the railways, concerning which there is much contention, and let us suppose that we on this side haVe good grounds for opposing any one of those appropriations. We desire an opportunity to discuss them, to divide the House upon them-I am only supposing; -we may be wrong, but that is our right, and we ought not to have any interference with our right. Here we are, going to make a vote of those very appropriations to which, perhaps, we are opposed in toto. That is not reasonable, and I would suggest to the hon. gentleman that he might get over this difficulty by agreeing, either now or at a later stage, that the Supply for which he is asking now should be applied only to salaries, wages and purposes of that kind. That would be a fair proposal.
My hon. friend is sometimes sensitive- I will not say unduly sensitive-in the matter of notice. This is a matter of which we have had substantially no notice at all. Last night when we asked about the busi-

ness of to-day, we had no intimation given to the House that this matter was to come up, although it appears that some mention was made of it on a previous occasion. It does not appear on the Order Paper, nor on the Votes and Proceedings. I do not take the technical objection that it is not on the Order Paper, but I do not know of a motion of this kind having ever been brought up before without a previous understanding with the leader of the Opposition. I do not say that that is necessary; but I speak from experience, and I am quite sure I am correct when I say that, in all my experience, no motion of this kind was ever before made without a previous understanding between the Minister of Finance and the leader of the Opposition. No mention of this matter was made last night when we asked about the business of the day, although we may be told that some mention was made of it the other day and we can find it if we look at Hansard. I do not, however, wish to take a technical objection; my desire is to assist the Minister of Finance, and my suggestion, which I make entirely for myself, is that we agree to give the Government this Supply with the distinct understanding that it shall apply only to salaries, wages and urgent matters of that kind.	i


I have had a good deal of experience in matters of this kind, both in Opposition and while a member of the Government. It is perfectly obvious that you can get a vote on account only by consent, because on every item with respect to a vote on account, you could take up just as much time as you could in passing the entire Estimates. Therefore, it goes without saying that this must be by consent. The point to which the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's (Mr. Fielding has called attention is one that has arisen in the past, and it has always been met by this understanding- in numerous cases in my experience, both while in Opposition and while a member of the Government-on the part of the Government of the day, that any vote on account of any particular item shall not in the least prejudice the right of the Opposition to attack that item and to move for its reduction or its total removal from the Estimates.


In the meantime, it might have been spent.


Only a very small fraction. At all events, whether the method to which I have alluded

is right or wrong, it is one that has always been pursued in the past. it' is quite correct, as the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's has said, that there is a conference in these matters between the leader of the Government and the leader of the Opposition, and I gathered that there had been a conference with regard to the matter in this particular instance.


I understand, not.


If that is not the ease, my hon. friends have the matter before them now, and if they desire that there shall be a further delay until a further conference or a conference takes place, that course should be pursued in such ail instance. I should like to say that I myself tried once, in Opposition, under what I thought were somewhat serious circumstances, the policy of refusing any vote on account, and before ten days were over, I got very tired of my position, because I heard, I think, from every province and from nearly every community in Canada on the subject. I should be very sorry to seethe policy, which has been followed in the past, permitting a vote on account in the public interest and for the public service, to be abondoned in this Parliament for the first time.


It is always a pleasure to listen to the right hon. gentleman, and I wish we would hear him speak more often. He has just reminded the House that he has done some little obstruction in the past. In one instance he succeeded, unfortunately, and as a result he is somewhat responsible for the state in which the country is to-day. I wish to tell my right hon. friend and the leader of the Government (Mr. Meighen that no one on this side, during the great crisis through which the country is passing, is desirous of obstructing the country's business; but the country has a right to expect that the affairs of this House shall be conducted in the old traditional way. What is the principal function of this House, if it is not the control of the expenditure of public moneys? It is the traditional function of Parliament to control the expenditure of public moneys. We are to-day passing through the most serious financial crisis through which this country has ever experienced, and we are asked to rush this interim Supply on account without any scrutiny. We have to face huge deficits, and the amounts asked in the Estimates are beyond the means of the Canadian people un-

less we resort to extreme taxation measures. Yet, the right hon. gentleman (Sir Robert Borden) comes with a smile and pleads and says: " I have tried obstruction on similar lines in the old days; I have not succeeded. People soon began clamouring for the money." My hon. friend will not hear to-day from the country what he says he heard ten of fifteen years ago about expenditure. Then the people were willing to spend money; they knew the country was rich, but this is not the mood of the Canadian people to-day. They want to see reduction in military expenditures, reduction on the merchant marine and or the naval programme; reduction in expenditure on the Mounted Police. I repeat again: I do not care to resort to obstruction. This is not a time to play politics.


Oh, oh.


If the Tories are willing to play politics, the Liberals and the Progressives are not. Further, I would like to make this statement: In view of the deficit of $70,000,000 which was proclaimed throughout the whole country the other day by the Minister of Railways and Canals, some one in this House should have the courage to demand that that deficit shall not be met by additional taxation, but by a reduction in the Estimates. In view of the financial situation in which the country finds itself to-day, that is the only way in which that deficit ought to be met. I, for one, am not afraid of what may be said in the back concessions about the expenditure of public moneys. I am listening to the voice of my conscience.


Oh, oh.


Who is the man that
has not a conscience? Mr. Chairman, I will have the courage to back up my words, and I shall await the verdict of the House. If not I personally, some on in authority on this side of the House will propose a serious cut in the expenditure this year. I am ready to reduce the amount provided in the Estimate'

^ at least $50,000,000. We are asked "to v\. one-sixth of the total Estimates and I understand from the right hon. gentleman (Mr. Meighen) that there will ' )e no expenditure on items which might be considered contentious. I accept his word, as I would the word of the Minister of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton), but I say that this is not the proper way to conduct the public business. Let us get back to (gnrmal. We have lost our bearings for the six years. We have been rolling in
millions since the war, and the right hon. the member for King's (Sir Robert Borden) is largely responsible for the reckless expenditure of public moneys during the war. It is well to-day that he should help by his advice and by his presence the unfortunate heir to the legacy which he has left to the country. I say, let us return to the normal, and I am here only repeating what several hon. members who are supporters of the Government and what the people at large are saying. It is time we should get back to a common-sense basis in this country. We have been spending too recklessly. Surely, it is time to stop. My hon. friend the Minister of Marine and Fisheries, who was elected chiefly because he was a business man, has practically lost all his reputation in that respect since he joined the Government. Once more, let us get back to normal. Let us live no longer in a fool's paradise. The trouble to-day, Mr. Chairman, is that we do not control the expenditure ; we do not scrutinize in detail the items in the Estimates, but pass them holus-bolus. In a few days the Budget, I suppose, will be delivered, and after some weeks' discussion we shall have reached the dog-days and every member will be anxious to get home. Then the people of this country will be burdened once more with a bill of expenditure which can only be met by more taxation. Mr. Chairman, I protest against that mode of procedure. I say, let the Committee of Supply of this House of Commons get back to its traditional function of scrutinizing every item, and reducing the expenditure where that is necessary. Then hon. gentleman opposite may come and ask us to pass certain non-contentious votes, if they be such that the House of Commons will agree to them. But as a representative of the people, and as a taxpayer, I protest against the high-handed procedure which the present motion, if carried, will occasion.


I must thank the right hon. member for King's, the exPrime Minister (Sir Robert Borden) for reminding the House and indeed the Prime Minister himself, that courtesy and conference should be a part of the proceedings of this House. Let me say in reference to what my right hon. friend has said that I have always understood that in matters of interim Supply there would be something in the nature of a conference between the leader of the Government and the leader of the Opposition before anything of the kind was sprung upon the House. In the present case, no conference of any kind has taken place between the right hon. the Prime

Minister (Mr. Meighen) and myself, or between the hon. the Minister of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton) and myself. The motion this afternoon is the first intimation I have had of any intention on the part cf the Government to bring up to-day an interim Supply vote.
In order that the House may fully appreciate the significance of the action of hon. gentlemen opposite in attempting to rush this matter through, may I direct the attention of hon. members to the fact that the amount we are asked to vote now, if one-sixth of the Supply as set out in the Estimates, is little less than $100,000,000. We came into this House without the slightest warning one way or the other that we should be asked to vote $100,000,000 and we are told by hon. gentlemen opposite that by virtue of the force of their majority they intend to rush that amount through this Parliament without affording any opportunity whatever for consideration of the expenditures involved thereby. If my right hon. friend is going to rely upon might as his means and method of carrying on the business of this Parliament he may do so, but I tell him that all such methods of might are Prussian methods. I propose that we on this side of the House shall take our stand in accord with British methods-


Oh, oh.


Hon. gentlemen opposite do not seem to appreciate what is meant by the word British. I wish to tell them that wherever there has been a Parliament carried on in accordance with British traditions, it has stood for the rights of the people in protecting them against extravagant expenditure on the part of the Government. It has stood for the rights of the people's representatives in Parliament to control public expenditure and the public purse, and that right has always been exercised in Committee of Supply by allowing the freest latitude to hon. members to discuss every single item in the Estimates before the money with respect thereto is appropriated by Parliament. There are only two methods of conducting public business:	one is the
method of relying upon reason, upon discussion, upon conference; the other is the method of relying upon might, upon force. There is no other alternative. Hon. gentlemen opposite have not even attempted the first method. They have not even accorded us an opportunity of considering whether the particular vote they are asking Parliament to accede to to-day 
should or should not be granted, either in whole or in part. I say, Mr. Chairman we on this side of the House will not consent to vote any $100,000,000 by virtue of the force of the majority which the Government has behind them. We will expect at least something in the nature of a conference between the two sides, or there will be no acceptance of the proposal to vote any such amount.


I would like to join with my hon. friend in what he says as to the exercise of courtesy in this chamber. I would like to see some at least of our important business discussed without perhaps quite as much heat, and perhaps a little more fairly. There is no doubt about one thing, and that is that we should give proper notice, but I had understood that the hon. gentleman had absolutely refused to have anything to do with interim Supply. I may be wrong, but unless my ears are very far from being per- -less my eyes are very far from being perfect, he solemnly declared in this House this very session that there would be no interim Supply. So under the circumstances I did not know of any other way of bringing up the matter than the one in which it has now been brought up. But I want to say this: if, notwithstanding my hon. friend's declaration of weeks ago, he is not to-day willing to discuss this question, I certainly do not want to take him by surprise, and I would be willing to have the matter stand. But before it does stand I think we ought to understand a little more clearly just where we are and what we are at.
In the first place, I wonder if we can get away from dealing in extravagant statements.


I did not wish to interrupt the minister, and I am prepared to accord him every courtesy to which he is entitled. On the other hand, I desire to remind the committee that the chairman has ruled this discussion out of order.


The chairman did not exactly rule that the discussRljprros out of order. Ho ruled that the re^utiori could be n sidere.	nly by unanimous consent.
The	"" clearly given	-s
hon.
procet sumed mous co.
Mr. CA
The CH; to any motk

sent, any hon. member has the right at any time, before the motion is carried, to object to the discussion. The hon. member for Dorchester (Mr. Cannon) having objected,
I must maintain his objection; but in all fairness to the hon. Minister of Finance (Sir Henry Drayton) I think that by unanimous consent he might be allowed to conclude his remarks and we could then proceed to some other item.


Before leaving the question of notice, the right hon. the Prime Minister (Mr. Meighen), calls my attention to the fact that on the night before last notice was given that we intended to bring up this question. That notice was given in this way:
Mr. Mackenzie King: What business will be taken up to-morrow?
Mr. Meighen: The House will be moved into Committee of Supply on Labour and Railway Estimates; those are what we will take up first. There may be two or three Government orders that would be gone on with first, but not such as would likely be contentious. Notice was given to-day of a motion for interim supply, which, if the notice is sufficient, will be gone on with.
I may say that instructions were given to the law officers to give notice, but they say that it is not necessary, and should not be given, and that is consonant with the ruling given to-day by the chairman.
Mr. Mackenzie King: When was that notice given?
Sir Henry Drayton: This afternoon, I think.
Mr. Mackenzie King: I am not aware of it.
Mr. Meighen: It would simply be handed in.


Go on; read
the whole of it: "I suppose."


(Reading):
Mr. Mackenzie King: "I suppose" my right hon. friend speaks of going on with the Estimates of the Railway Department to-morrow. Possibly the motion of which he has just given notice had better be disposed of before we go on with the Railway Estimates. We would dike to know before we discuss those Estimates what information we are likely to get from this committee when it functions.


There is no
statement there that this matter would be definitely taken up.


There is
an intimation there to the effect that a motion for interim supply would be proceeded with.


For the next day's
business. The intimation we received last night was different.


Perfectly true, but I do not know that that was evasive. The statement of the Prime Minister was plain-


As all the Prime Minister's statements are.


-and I do not think that hon. gentlemen will receive the greatest degree of courtesy in this House if idle charges of evasion are to be hurled across the floor. The language
4 p.m. I have quoted is plain and speaks for itself. Now, let us see if we can get down from extravagant figures and come to actual facts. Heaven knows the figures are large enough. But the resolution does not call for the one hundred million dollars which the hon. gentleman refers to, although it does call for a very large sum. It calls for an amount not exceeding $71,000,000 odd, being one-sixth of the total,-to be exact, $71,499,703.70.
Now, the charge is made with some heat by the hon. member for Gaspe (Mr. Lem-ieux), that we are not following British practice or tradition. Well, this is the only thing they do in the British Parliament every year. It is always done, and it is the only way they can get along. I do not ask my hon. friend to take my word for it; I read to him just a few moments ago the authority on the subject, showing just exactly what is done in the British House. But because we are following the example of the Mother of Parliaments, we are charged both by the hon. member and by the leader of the Opposition, with being un-British in our methods. The hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's (Mr. Fielding), says that we should call Parliament sooner. Well, when he called Parliament sooner, he adopted exactly the same practice as is now being followed. He had charge of the country's finances in the year 1906-7. Parliament was called on November 22, 1906, and in that session there were two interim Supply Bills passed, although the House was called in November.


There was a surplus that year.


I do not know whether there was a surplus or not, but I am dealing with one particular complaint that is made,' and I am pointing out that, although it is suggested that if Parliament were called in November there would be no necessity for these things, nevertheless hon. gentlemen opposite did call

Parliament in November and in this particular year to which I have referred they passed not one but two votes in interim Supply. Again, in 1909-10, Parliament was called in November, and a quarter of the Estimates was passed in interim Supply; and in the next year, 1911, the first interim vote was one-sixth, and then there was a further vote of three-twelfths of the remainder. In fact, this became an absolutely settled practice, and I appeal to hon. gentlemen opposite whether I am not following fairly good precedent when I do what has been done by the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's. I have the statements made during the debate in 1903, and although I do not propose to read them in extenso, the answers then given by the hon. gentleman himself completely meet the very objection that is made to-day as to salary. He pointed out, for example-well, perhaps I had better quote his exact words on that point:
All the matters that can be discussed in connection with those votes will, of course, still remain before the House; and we will have to take these up Item by item for the purpose of obtaining the remaining four-fifths of the Estimates. So that the course we now propose does not in any way restrict the fullest and freest discussion. It simply facilitates the granting of a partial supply, which will be very much needed before the end of the present month.
The point was raised as to items in connection with which there might be objection and trouble, and at that particular time the views were just exactly opposite to what' they are to-day on the part of some hon. gentlemen. In that instance the right hon. the ex-Prime Minister (Sir Robert Borden) said:
I would not care to be in this position that because we have voted this one-fifth, in order that some portion of it . might be expended on public works, for example, any gentleman on this side of the House should be precluded from the right of moving to strike out the whole item.
As to this the hon. member for Shelburne and Queen's says:
Of course in any particular case after we have acted upon the Supply Bill to the extent of one-fifth, it would be too late to strike out the item in that case. But I hope no such case will arise. At all events, I quite agree with the hon. gentleman's wish to have full freedom of discussion and of action in the matter, and that he merely facilitates the passing of this resolution because it is necessary to make supply for the public service. I quite appreciate that and in that spirit only is the matter agreed to.
As I say, it came up every year and on two occasions I find the hon. gentleman referred to the whole thing as purely pro forma-it was a matter of so long stand-
Sir Henry Drayton.]
ing, in fact, such regular standing. I am sure the hon. gentleman will appreciate the fact that there are other things which have to be paid for besides wages. Coal has to be paid for, supplies have to be paid for, and work that is going on has to go on. He refused before to take anything but his regular vote which would enable him to do these things; I am very much afraid that at the present time we will have to refuse to take anything except what will enable us to do business and continue to pay bills. Now, Mr. Chairman, I would suggest that this motion be postponed and taken up in committee again to-morrow.


Amen.


Sir Henry Drayton moves that further consideration of the resolution be postponed.


How can a motion be postponed when .it has been ruled out of order?


The debate on the motion is postponed. If it is the desire that the motion be withdrawn and presented again this procedure may be adopted.


The motion may as well be withdrawn. The only thing I have in mind is this: While I do not question the correctness of the ruling by you, Mr. Chairman, having regard to its exact wording, I do say that very embarrassing situations in the future will arise therefrom. It is evidently something that was not taken care of in the framing of the rules, as is very frequently the case. It undoubtedly will mean, as you, Mr. Chairman, were about to intimate, that the consideration of a vote of even one-fourth of the total Estimates as interim Supply, will virtually wipe out the whole effect of the rule and we could then go into Supply on Thursday and Friday and consider the Estimates of any department without any previous notice. Because of that fact I warned hon. gentlemen of the risk they were taking in raising this question and having it ruled accordingly. I think hon. gentlemen will agree with me that it was never intended that the rule should have this effect; it was only intended to enable a vote against a department to be introduced at the opening of the Supply of that department. This could not be done on Thursday or Friday, because there is no motion to go into Supply except on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. That is the reason why this ruling affects the whole


situation. I do not ask for any decision now, I would like to give some thought to the subject, and I think that possibly we can come to an agreement, perhaps to reverse the ruling, or at least in some way to establish a precedent which will not have the effect and the consequences that the ruling is going to have. However we can consider the matter to-morrow.


I would point out to
my hon. friend the fact that when there is a motion made for Supply there is not associated with it any rule in reference to any department, and the rule in that respect, may I say is defective.


I know that, but the
point was raised in the discussion, and the point was taken care of by this means when the closure rules were discussed. I know there is no special department mentioned. According to the practice any member of the Opposition is in a position to move an amendment against a department, or reflecting on it in an way at all.


What is the decision?


The motion is withdrawn.
Department of Marine-Shipbuilding programme-amount required for the construction of vessels in accordance with Government programme, $8,330,000.


Before the
members of the committee enter upon the consideration of this item I may perhaps be allowed to say a word or two in reply to certain observations that were made by the hon. member for Red Deer (Mr. Clark) and the hon. member for Maisonneuve (Mr. Lemieux) when I presented to the House a week ago last Tuesday, the annual statement as to the earnings of the Government merchant marine. I am sure the hon. member for Red Deer will find no fault with me if I correct a statement he made as to the amount of the contracts that had been let-as he put it, up to Armistice Day, November 11, 1918. If there is one hon. member in this House for whom I have the highest regard it is the hon. member for Red Deer. I admire his parliamentary style and his eloquence, and above all I admire his consistency. While the hon. member and myself do not agree on public questions, I want to pay him this tribute [DOT]-that ever since I have been a member of Parliament he has been thoroughly consistent on all public questions that have come before us. The hon. member for Red Deer opposed the Government shipbuilding programme which I had the honour to submit on April 4, 1918. He said frankly and freely that he did not believe it was a wise expenditure, or that the policy contemplated was wise. In taking that stand the hon. member was consistent and I want to assure him that I appreciate his consistency. However, I want to correct the hon. gentleman in regard to a certain point. He said that the value of the contracts, as let on November 11, 1918, was $16,000,000, and in the hon. gentleman's opinion the Government should have called a halt at that time. I wish to inform the hon. member for Red Deer that the value of the contracts let on Armistice Day, November 11, 1918, was not $16,000,000, but $45,000,000. That is the only correction I desire to make in the hon. gentleman's statement.


Does my hon. friend recall the speech he made somewhere about December 5, of that year on the occasion of the launching of the first two ships?


Yes.


Did he not mention in that speech the figure of $16,000,000?


The hon. member is quite right. The $16,000,000 represented the value of the contracts that had been actually signed by Order in Council at that date, but the Government had closed up $45,000,000, although formal Orders in Council had not been passed; therefore I can see quite plainly how the hon. member got the figure of $16,000,000 instead of $45,000,000.


The
minister refers to Orders in Council, but I would like to know if on November 11, 1918, contracts had not been let for $45,000,000.


Here are the actual figures: Value of contracts signed on or before November 11, 1918, $29,299,991.40; value of contracts approved by Order in Council on or before November 11, 1918, but not signed, $16,359,703. The commitments therefore on November 11, 1918 amounted to $45,659,694.40.
Now, Mr. Chairman, I turn from my hon. friend from Red Deer to my good friend-who represents the constituencies of Maisonneuve and Gaspe (Mr. Lemieux). I 