Bill No. 228, from the Senate, for the relief of Lucy Eileen Johnston.-Mr. Church.
Bill No. 229, from the Senate, for the relief of Susan Ellen Tauton Love.-Mr. Jacobs.
Bill No. 230, from the Senate, for the relief of Caroline Watters.-Mr. Maclean (York).
Bill No. 231, from the Senate, for the relief of Grace Wilhelmina Harrison.-Mr. Church.
Bill No. 232, from the Senate, for the relief of Ethel Foster.-Mr. Sheard.
On the Orders of the Day.
I wish to call the attention of the government, and the Minister of the Interior in particular, to a telegram-indeed more than one telegram- which I have received from Winnipeg protesting against certain concessions, or rather the promise of a concession, said to have been made in respect of certain pulpwood areas in northern Manitoba, especially to those features providing only for pulpwood manufacture on a small scale rather than paper manufacture-to both the smallness of the scale and the fact that only partial manufacture is to be made of the raw material- as inadequate compensation for the very large concessions given. I would ask the Minister if he would make any statement that he can on the subject, and also if he would lay on the table of the House the agreements or order in council, or both, whichever may exist.


I notice 'by press despatches that there has been considerable agitation about a concession granted to the Manitoba Pulp and Paper Company in Winnipeg, due largely, I think, to the fact that there is not a definite provision for the location of the mill in the city of Winnipeg. However, in reply to the question of my right hon. friend I would say

Pulpwood Concessions
that there is definite provision in the contract for the manufacture of both pulp and paper.


How much?
Mr. STEWART (Argenteuil) Fifty per cent of the product of the mill is to be manufactured into paper, and none of the pulp can be exported from Canada without the consent of the minister, so that there is definite provision for the manufacture of paper and the construction of a paper plant in connection with the pulp plant.


What is the extent of the plant?


At present one hundred tons per day, but it can be extended to a two hundred ton plant which I am given to understand' is the economic unit. That is the definite provision. My information is that the city of Winnipeg are very anxious to secure this plant. But the difficulty in Winnipeg is the water supply, They require a very large supply of pure water which would have to be filtered, if taken from the river proper, or obtained from the greater Winnipeg water supply, whereas if the company located on lake Winnipeg or on the English river they would have these advantages besides being somewhat closer to their source of power. The project is to be undertaken with power developed by the Manitoba Power Company at its inception, and from a development of power later on. I submitted the agreement and order in council on the matter to the provincial government. The mayor and council-I would not sty the council but the mayor at all events-of the city of 'Winnipeg consulted with the members representing the district, and the features of the contract, I think, protect ev.-.ry one thoroughly. We have a deposit of $250,000 as a guarantee that the mill will be started, but no cutting will be permitted until $1,000,000 has been expended upon the mill itself. In addition, there is a perpetual bond of $175,000 for the faithful performance of the contract. The citizens of Winnipeg, and of Manitoba generally, have been extremely anxious for a long time to have this industry established, and it is in compliance with that request that the agreement was entered into with the Manitoba Pulp and Paper Company for_ the carrying out of the project. The territory available in Manitoba will warrant the construction of two mills, so far as we know at the present time, of two hundred ton capacity each. That is according to the information that we have from our Forestry department. The whole agreement and contract have been
fully scrutinized and will be found, I think, eminently satisfactory. I shall be very glai to lay the order in council and the contract upon the table of the House on Monday.


That is, the orders-incouncil-there will be more than one, I anticipate-reciting the area of the concessions in respect of which the contract was made?


I would be very glad to lay the information on the table.


On Monday?


Yes.


On the Orders of the Day:
I should like also to refer to a question asked some two days ago, or three, relating to the reported or pending agreement as to defence as between France, Germany and Great Britain, and to ask the government if they would lay on the Table this session-on Monday if possible-the correspondence relating thereto. I hope that a too jealous care will not be taken to extend the confidentiality of the correspondence in order to prevent its 'being kid on the table because if so we shall know practically nothing about it for many months to come.
Hon. GEORGE P. GRAHAM (Minister of Railways and Canals): I do not know if there is any correspondence, although there may be. There is no objection to laying it on the table if it be not considered confidential. From what my right hon. friend says he knows what that, means.


On the Orders of the Day:
Will the government give us information as to the situation in Cape Breton? I trust -that parliament will not be asked to prorogue without this matter being settled, as there are now large bodies of troops in that pant of Canada.


That question had better be asked again when the Prime Minister is in his seat.


May I ask the Acting Minister of Finance if he will be good enough to inform -the House whether -he intends ito carry out the legislation -which is
Elections Act

now proposed in regard to the soldier settlement revaluation? Also the resolution which he has on the order paper regarding rural credits?


(Acting Minister of
Finance): I brought to the attention of the House Some days ago the .bill in regard to soldier settlement revaluation. For one reason or another it was delayed a whole evening; we sat considering that measure until after midnight. My hon. friend will recall that it was then moved that the committee rise. But I am not discouraged; I propose to bring that measure forward as it is now on the order paper. There is also a measure on the order paper relating to agricultural credits which I prqpose to present to the House.


The House resumed from July 19 consideration in committee of Bill No. 148, to amend the Dominion Elections Act (as amended).- Hon. Mr. Cppp.-Mt. Gordon in the Chair.
Sections 7, 8 and 9 agreed to.
On section 10-Delivery to candidates.
Mr. COOTE; I think there is some change in this section, and I would like an explanation of it. The committee is passing sections so fast that it is difficult to understand what is done.
This section provides for the delivery of the list of voters to candidates who have been nominated earlier than nomination day, if the lists are ready.


There is no provision that the lists must be ready a certain number of days before nomination?


No change in regard to that.


The returning officer
must have the lists in the hands of candidates nomination day.


That is the law at present.
Certified lists must 'be ready, but under the present section the candidates cannot obtain them till nomination day. This provides that if a candidate is nominated earlier he can get the lists earlier.


Is that intended to
make provision for ridings where nomination takes place two weeks before the election?


If my hon. friend will refer
to the explanatory note on the opposite page he will find the following:
Rule (6) of Schedule A to section 32 requires urban registrars to deliver or send copies of the preliminary 
lists prepared by them "to each of the candidates upon nomination day".
That is the present act. The explanation continues:
Such preliminary lists are generally ready for delivery seme ten or twelve days earlier, but the rule was no doubt drafted in its present form on the assumption that before nomination day there was no definite information as to what candidates would be in the field. Provision, is, however made for early nomination and there is no reason why candidates actually nominated should not immediately receive their preliminary copies of the list.
The provision referred to is made under section 40 of the present act.


While I approve of
sending lists to candidates as early as possible, I am afraid the minister or the Chief Electoral Officer will run up against difficulty if the section is adopted. It says:
Deliver or send by registered mail to each of the candidates upon nomination day one other certified copy of every such list.
The candidate might be nominated two months before the election, and the lists are not prepared at that time.


No.


Yes, there are candidates nominated to-day for the next general election.


Not by law.


Does that mean they
shall not have the lists until after official nomination day? I understand the minister to say, " as soon as they were put in the field If the section means that the lists shall not be sent to the candidate until after official nomination day, I cannot see any force in the provision.


Suppose, instead of waiting for nomination day, a candidate files his papers and makes his deposit, what is the harm in having the officer send him a list immediately instead of waiting?


I am not objecting to
the provision, but I am pointing out that it might get the electoral officer into difficulty. If it means after the candidate has deposited his nomination papers and so on, I have no objection; in fact I think it is a good thing.


It is almost impossible to hear, what is being said. How is the returning officer to find out when a candidate is nominated? Will the list be sent to anybody who states to the returning officer that be is a candidate?


Not until be files bis nomination paper regularly signed by a sufficient number of people and deposits those papers

Elections Act
with the returning officer together with his deposit, as a candidate. Then when the lists are ready he is entitled to get them in advance of nomination day.


Does this provision
apply to all constituencies, rural and urban?


Yes.


Section agreed to.
On section 11-Papers to be sent by registrar to revising officer.
I think the minister should
make some explanation of the clauses as we go along, and we might get through a little faster.


The explanation of the chief
electoral officer is on the opposite page.


If we attempt to read small
print opposite a section, before we get through the chairman will have declared the section carried.


The explanation reads:
The proposed rule adopts two amendments suggested by the Chief Electoral Officer who, in his 1922 report, says as follows in explanation of one of them:-
"The index books prepared by urban registrars and transmitted by them under this Rule to the revising officer for revision are necessary in order to ensure against the omission of names from the final list of vcters by reason of the possible loss or destruction of individual -loose sheets, if the list was prepared on separate sheets. The index book, is, however, an exceedingly unsatisfactory form in which to have copy go to the printer, and it is suggested that urban registrars should be required to prepare and transmit to the revising officer with the index book an extra copy for use by the printer, the index book being always retained by the revising officer and used for the correction of the proof."
That is just simply to provide an extra copy to go to the printer.


Section agreed to.
Sections 12 and 13 agreed to.
On section 14

Disposition of certain appeals to revising officer.
This is to carry out a
suggestion quoted in the note to section 9 of the bill. Hon. gentlemen will find the explanation opposite section 9, as follows:
This is an amendment suggested by the Chief Electoral Officer with a view of overcoming one of the difficulties referred to in the quotation from his 1922 report in the note to section 5 of the billl. In that report lie says with regard to this amendment:-
''The only way in which it appears possible consistently with the proper protection of the voter to render easier the removail of the names of dead and disqualified voters from the preliminary lists for urban polling divisions is to create a new class of applications to the revising officer in which the onus of establishing qualification is placed upon the voter
concerned instead of upon the applicant. When the onus rests upon the applicant it is exceedingly difficult to discharge, and experience indicates that, except when, as has happened, the machinery is used with the apparently deliberate purpose of blocking the revision, it is almost never resorted to. At the same time, it is impossible to allow the onus to be generally placed upon the voter without any responsibility upon the applicant, since the inevitable effect of so doing would be to put into the power of unscrupulous partisans not only to make the revision of the lists in the time available an impossibility, but to impose upon all their political opponents and unjustifiable burden. Since, however, it is principally names upon the provincial lists that are in question, it seems possible to permit the registrar, on affidavit made during his sittings by a qualified voter in his registration district, to give to the voter objected to a notice requiring him to attend or be represented before the revising officer in order to support his right to vote. An amendment along these lines would involve the insertion in Schedule A to section 32 of a new rule as Rule (5a); the addition of appropriate words at the end of Rule (8); the insertion of a new clause in Rule (14) as clause (bb), and a slight change in clause (c) of that rule."


The word "shall" in clause 14 of the bill, the third line from the last, is the only word that might be open to objection. The clause reads:
His name shall be struck therefrom, whether or not the voter by whom the objection was made has appeared before the revising officer.
It makes it imperative upon the revising officer to remove the name. I would suggest that the word "may" might well be substituted.


The only evidence before the registrar is an affidavit that the man is disqualified or dead. I do not think it makes very much difference whether we have it "shall' or "may." If the man is dead, "shall" is the proper word, and if he is disqualified, "shall" is the proper word.


Does it apply
only to dead or absentees?


Or disqualified.
Mr. STEWART -(Leeds):	The difficulty
is that these people may not appear. They are always reluctant to go up and appear, and the fact that they do not appear seems to entail the consequence of having their names struck from the lists.


I do not think the change
in the word would make any difference, but I have no objection if anybody thinks that is a better word.


Prior to what time have these appeals to be taken? To ascertain that, you have to go back to a clause that has been passed, but I think the matter is quite proper to be considered under clause 14. Under clause 9, rule (5a) is added to section 32, and it provides for an appeal. In my hurry, I

458S
Elections Act

cannot find anything which shows prior to what time that appeal may be taken.


That appeal is made to the
urban registrar before the completion of his list, whatever time that may be.


Where do we find that in the bill?


These appeals are limited to
applications made by affidavit before the urban registrar and they must be done before he completes his list.


This is a new provision entirely for having names removed at the instance of anyone 'who appears upon the list. What I cannot find is anything that states prior to what time a voter on the list has a right to make that appeal for the removal of somebody else's name.


The Chief Electoral Officer
fixes the time. As I understand my hon. friend's question, it is: Prior to what time can the appeal be made? The Chief Electoral Officer informs me that he fixes the time and it is usually between the 36th and the 30th day before the election.


There is another provision
which states that when the appeal is taken, notice is to be sent, but it does not say within what time. There might be a delay of two weeks in signing that notice. I do not say that a returning officer having a proper sense of bis duty would do that, but I should have thought provision would be made for a limited time within which notice must be sent- to the voter whose name is to be struck off.


That is done immediately. Of course, there is no express provision for it. You would have to go back to clause 9 to change that.	[DOT]


I should have thought there
would be something to direct him to do it within a certain time or immediately. The sending of the notice might stand indefinitely, and the returning officer could not be found guilty of any specific offence.


I can see another
danger under clause 14. While it apparently gives the voter who is challenged a further right to appear, I think the minister knows conditions, especially in New Brunswick. Let us take an election being held in December. Many voters are in the lumber woods and they plan to come out on election day in order to vote. I notice-not in the bill, but in the explanation-this statement; if it was
IMr. Boys.]
in the act it would be better, but even then it is not sufficient:
No complaint or appeal shall be heard by the revising officer to strike names off the list of voters unless two day's notice in writing has been given by mailing it registered and prepaid to the person affected, addressed as on the list of voters, or to his last known residence.


Is the bon. member
discussing clause 15 now?


I think this relates to
clause 14 as well. These men are in the lumber woods. It might be a week before they would get the letter, and it might be a much longer time than that; it might not be until the following year. Therefore, a hardship might be worked in cases of that kind. All that a person who was desirous of getting people's names off the list would have to do would be to find out who were in the lumber woods and request that their names should be struck off. These men should not be called to come out and appear, losing their time when it is very inconvenient for them in any case.


There are difficulties in all
these matters that are brought to the attention of the committee. It is, I (hink, an impossibility for the Chief Electoral Officer or anybody else to frame an act that would cover every individual case that a member might think about in his particular riding, and to provide for the lumber men in New Brunswick, the few miners in Ontario and the fishermen in Nova Scotia, British Columbia and elsewhere. There are always bound to be some little difficulties that it is impossible to meet. The Chief Electoral officer, who has given, not his whole time but Ihe main portion of his time, to this matter for the past five or six years, has worked this out in order to cover the situation to the best of his ability. From the information and experience he has gaine.' in the conduct of the last election, he has suggested these amendments. We have gone over them as carefully as we could in the committee on Privileges and Elections and have heard his explanations. If anybody can suggest anything that will improve the bill, I am sure the Chief Electoral Officer and myself will be very glad to consider any suggestions: but it seems to me that to- undertake to change these various clauses here and there as we go along, will, perhaps, result in our getting into greater difficulties than if we accepted the judgment of the drafting done by the Chief Electoral Officer. I quite understand the suggestion of my hon. friend (Mr. Caldwell). Some man, a political partisan perhaps,

Elections Act
might make a wrong affidavit, and a notice would be sent to somebody who would be in the lumber woods or on a log drive. Such a man might not get that notice and he might suffer an injury by having his name removed from the voters' list when it should not have been. The man, however, who made the affidavit would be liable to be charged with perjury. This is a thing that would not happen often although, perhaps, it might happen occasionally. It would be impossible to find a panacea to cover every case we could think of in this Dominion.


I think all these objections would perhaps be met by a very simple change in' this clause. I move that the word "shall" in clause 14 in the fourth line on the top of page 8 be changed to "may". That leaves it in the discretion of the revising officer in cases of this kind to leave the name on the list.


That is quite satisfactory.
Amendment (Mr. Stewart, Leeds) agreed to.


I regret to say that I do not
feel myself satisfied with regard to the point I have just mentioned. I do not seek in any way to raise any extraordinary or unique situation, but this is a situation which seems to me to apply to every instance whether it be in a city or town or anywhere else. In dealing with it, one has to refer to clause 9 which adds as a subsection the rule (5A). I am quite aware that the revising officer holds his courts and everybody knows where those courts will be. But this is an extraordinary remedy which you are giving to every voter whose name appears upon the list. As I read the clause, there is nothing to limit it. As the clause reads, he may apply to the revising officer by making affidavit at any time whatever. Supposing he makes his application a day or two before election day, what opportunity would there be to send a notice to the voter whose name is to be struck off and to give him an opportunity of appearing and opposing such action? Unless I am overlooking some provision in the bill, it seems to me you must get this result. If there is anything in the bill stating that this must all be done not later than the last day on which there is a revision of the list, my objection would fall to the ground, but I do not find any such provision. This is an extraordinary proposition and one that, it seems to me, can be set in motion when the revising officer has entirely completed his revision of the list. Some limitation must be provided or we are going to get into very serious trouble.
293i


It is suggested by the Chief
Electoral Officer that it might be remedied by inserting in line 37-clause 9-after the word "registrar" the words "during his sitting".


In the first place, I should like to find out from the minister if I am right in my contention, because if I am right, we ought to deal with it. If I am wrong, we need not bother our heads any more about it.


The Chief Electoral Officer
feels it is very satisfactory in the way it is, but those three words might make it a little clearer as to when it is to be done.


Let us assume that the revising officer has completed his work, that the lists are revised; but, for instance, I make up my mind that there is on the list a certain name which should not be there. I look at the act and I find that by virtue of the provisions of clause 9, rule (5A) is added to section 32, and rule (5A) gives a voter who is on the list the right to object to some other name which, he thinks, is improperly upon that list.


He makes his objection before the registrar.


Certainly; but I am stating the case w'here the work of revising the list has been completed.
Mr. 'COPP: The revision has not been begun when this takes place.


Of course it has. I will ask the minister to assume that the list has been completed, and to apply rule (5A):
Any voter qualified to vote in any polling division in the district allotted to any registrar, and duly entered in the list of voters for such polling division, may make oath before such registrar alleging the death, disqualification, or real residence and appearance in another list, of any person on the list for any of such polling divisions, and the registrar, upon such oath being made before him, shall transmit by registered mail addressed to the person objected to, at the address mentioned in the list of voters, if any, and also at such other address, if any, as may be mentioned in the oath aforesaid, a notice requiring the person objected to to appear in person or by representative-
And so on. Now, when may the voter take that proceeding? Is there anything in this act that says he must do so before the completion of the list?


The objection must be made before the registrar and not before the returning officer.
Mr. B'OYS: I am by no means satisfied.


If my hon. friend is not satisfied, I am prepared to let this section stand until he has had an opportunity of consider-
Elections Act

ing it further. The Chief Electoral Officer tells me that it is all right.


I can see nothing which says that that extraordinary remedy cannot be applied two days before the election. Can the minister refer me to anything in the act to the contrary?


The registrar's work is done long before that.


I do not care whether it is done or not, this section says the voter may apply to the registrar. The registrar remains, does he not, until the election is over?


Would not this make it absolutely clear-"before such registrar during his regular sittings."


"At or before"-he cannot do it during his regular sittings. Suppose he is on his last day, what time is there going to be to send this notice out, have the voter appear, and so on?


Ten days.


Why is our Elections Act so cumbersome and intricate, so complex and hard to be understood by the general public? I am very sorry that the Chief Electoral Officer did not bring in an act more simple in form. It could be contained in a dozen pages and the common people could readily understand it. The old act contains 245 pages. We 'have seen in this House eminent lawyers disagreeing on certain clauses of that act and if these legal gentlemen are at a loss to understand it how are we to expect the common people who are the ones most concerned, the voters, to have any clear knowledge of it?


Section agreed to.
On section 15-Applications to revising officer.
The minister might explain
this.
Mr. 'COPP:	This is a continuation of
section 9 of the act.


Section agreed to.
On section 16-Duties of revising officer before polling day.
The note opposite explains
the section. Rule 15 of schedule (a) to section 32 directs the revising officer to certify and commence the printing of his lists and to send statements of changes and additions to candidates on the twelfth day before polling day. The sittings of the 
revising officer conclude on the fifteenth day before polling day, and as time presses at this stage and it is important that the printing of the lists should be completed as early as possible, there seems to be no reason why the statute should require an unnecessary waste of three days.


Does the minister not
think that this section should stand until we have disposed of section 21? There must be fourteen days between nomination day and polling day, and if the list is to be presented to the candidate on nomination day the revising officer would have to complete his work more than twelve days before polling day.


This is not the list my hon.
friend refers to; this is the preliminary list. Under the present statute there is a waste of three days and this amendment is intended to obviate that.


The amendment itself does
not read that way. It says:
As soon as possible after the conclusion of his sittings and at latest on the twelfth day before polling day, the revising officer shall-
Is there anything to hinder him from sending it within fifteen days?


He is to do it as soon as
possible after the work is finished, but not later than the twelfth day.


How many days must elapse between the sending of the lists and the election?	[DOT]


I am very much afraid
of section 15, as of most of them. It puts the onus on the person appeal-
12 noon ing against the name to show that the particular voter has no right to vote. It has unfortunately been the practice in large cities to put on the lists all sorts and conditions of people, hundreds of whom do not live at all and never did live. How are you going to show that some fictitious name is fictitious? You cannot do it. You can put the burden on the man appealing but he cannot discharge that burden; there is no way of doing it. What would be the result? You would have thousands of names of people who were merely imaginary, all voting by telegraph, and no one could appeal and establish his claim against a single one of these fictitious people.


I am interested in section
16. It seems to provide that instead of fifteen days between the time the list is mailed and polling day there shall be only twelve.

Elections Act


The new rule provides that
it may be done "as early as possible" but must not be done later than the twelfth day.


That is the only point I
want to clear up.


Are any changes permissible in the list after the official list is delivered to candidates on nomination day?


It is the preliminary list that
goes to the candidate on nomination day. All changes are made, in urban lists, after nomination day.


And what about rural
lists?


They may be changed after
nomination day, too.


It seems to me that in the
rural districts fifteen days is too rfiort a time, because these lists should be sent by the candidate to his agents in the outlying districts so that they may see that they are correct. For some of the rural districts at any rate the time is too short.


This applies only to urban districts.


Section agreed to.
On section 17-Record of rural registrars appointed.
In the last general election the final lists in some cases were not received until three days after the election.


It is the same in the
rural districts.


It is awfully hard to
have your agent work in your best interests if you have not the revised list in your hands beforehand.


Mistakes may occur in any
election. The same thing occurred in parts of my riding. But section 18 is intended to assist in that respect by having the list given to the representatives in the rural districts.


Section agreed to.
On section 18-Rural lists to be sent to candidates.
This section will be all right, I think, if you do not insist on the change requiring only one week to elapse between nomination and polling day, but if that provision should carry later on, I think these lists should certainly be in the hands of the candidates before nomination day.


Section agreed to.
Sections 19 and 20 agreed to.
On section 21-Interval between nomination and poll altered.
I would move that this section stand for the present.


In the meantime I would suggest to the minister that he get the Minister of Defence (Mr. Macdonald, Pictou) to frame an amendment to section 21 to submit to hon. gentlemen to my left showing how that sixty days can be arrived at by an amendment to section 21. I would like him to exercise his ingenuity on that.


I would ask the minister
to inform the committee why he wishes this section to stand, and whether he is going to consider the advisability of lengthening the time between nomination and polling day.


I asked the
minister in charge of the bill to hold this section for the moment. I have sent to get information covering the last twenty years as to the length of time that has elapsed between the day of officially announcing the election and polling day, because I think that information would be of interest and helpful to the committee in deciding this mater. Last night in the discussion which took place a great deal was said about the interest of individual candidates in different ridings, but nothing or very little was said with respect to the public interest and the desirability of not keeping business in this country in an unsettled condition over a long period of time. That, I believe, is the reason why in Great Britain and other countries the time fixed is as short as it can be. Everyone knows that during the period of an election, business becomes greatly unsettled. Large business concerns will not place orders, banks more or less suspend a part of their loaning operations, and generally the whole business of the country is unsettled through the period in which the politi-[DOT] cal campaign takes place. The government in seeking to shorten the period of time had this in mind and more particularly the confusion of the last election when over a quarter of the year was taken up in an election campaign, in so acting we believe we are furthering the best interest of the country primarily and doing what will prove to be in the interest of candidates themselves. It must be remembered that a political campaign does not necessarily start the moment the announcement of an election is made. The people of the country are judging a government from the moment it takes office, and all through the year constituencies are being addressed by members and candidates. When my hon
Elections Act

friends return to the west the first thing they will do, I imagine, will be to visit different parts of their constituencies and express their views on the political questions of the day. So the limiting of time does not mean that political discussion is being confined within these limits. It is simply that the country may know that for a certain period, and only for that period, will the necessary turmoil of a political contest be kept up.
However, as I have said, the reason for holding this section for the moment is to get the further information I have sent for; and I think if we discover by it that it has been possible to hold elections in this country for a number of years in a shorter period of time, that ought to be some guide to the committee in settling this matter. Again I would say 'that the period of forty-five days is from the point of view of the Chief Electoral Officer only, what in his opinion could happen under the most favourable circumstances assuming that there is no hitch in any particular. That is the minimum, but it does not mean that the election may not take a very much longer time.


My reason for rising to
speak a moment ago was that this section is going to shorten the time between nomination and polling day to one week in most of the constituencies, and I am sure that that will be too short. It is simply inviting trouble, because in many of the constituencies it will be found almost impossible to print the ballots and distribute them to outlying polls within one week, and it may result in many elections having to be fought all over again. I repeat, it is simply inviting trouble. I cannot see why we should shorten that time at any rate, regardless of what we do as ito fixing the time between the issuing of the writ and polling day.


There is one point in regard to this change that perhaps has been overlooked. We must remember that when this act was prepared that we are now revising, an entirely new system of preparing the lists was adopted. Printed lists were discarded, lists that had formerly been prepared for a considerable length of time before the election. The new provisions as to the preparation and distribution of the lists on the basis of two weeks elapsing between nomination and polling day were inserted, and if the act is changed it seems to me it will lead to a great deal of confusion in the minds of every person in regard to the situation that prevails between the issuing of the lists to the candidates who are not officially nominated 
until the seventh day before election day. It seems to me it. is opening the way to confusion.


I would
like to make a few remarks on this question.


This clause stands.


I shall
take only a few moments. The fact that elections have been held-


Mr. Chairman, I rise to a point of order. The adoption of this section is not moved. I do not see how we can debate it. Surely the 'minister in charge of the bill has the right to take section 22 instead of section 21. When he moves for the adoption of section 21 that will be the time to debate it.


I just wish to suggest, in view of the fact that the Prime Minister is taking certain things into consideration, that he take this point into consideration also. In some of the large constituencies in days gone by it has been found that the period of two weeks between nomination day and polling day was insufficient and some polling districts were not able to get their ballot boxes.
Section stands.
Section 22 agreed to.


I would ask that section 23 be allowed to stand also. It relates to section 21.
Section 23 stands.
On Section 24-Information given before poll is closed.


I should like to have some information as to why this subsection is being repealed.


The Chief Electoral Officer in his 1922 report says:
Section 60, subsection (la) makes it an illegal practice for any "candidate, officer, clerk or other person" to communicate to any one before the close of the poll information as to whether any person has voted or applied for a ballot paper at any polling station. This provision seems to be quite unnecessary an l unless it is disregarded, as it probably often is, merely involves extra and unnecessary expense to candidates. No public interest would seem likely to suffer by reason of its repeal and it is recommended that the clause be repealed."
The paragraph repealed reads as follows:-
(a) before the poll is closed, communicate to any person any information as to whether any person on the list of voters has or has not applied for a ballot paper or voted at that polling station; or,
You can get that information at all times by having an agent outside the polling station who checks every person who goes in. If you

Elections Act
can get that information at the present time I see no reason why a candidate should not obtain it from his agent inside the poll.


If this section is adopted it will simply mean that there will be no order at all inside the polling booth; it will result in a mob gathering inside.


They cannot get in; nobody is allowed in except those persons authorized under the act.


But under this provision they will be going into the polling station to get the names of persons who have or have not voted.


Not at all.


All right.


It would be interesting to know why any obligation is imposed upon the officers to give the information.


Not at all.


Then the effect of the amendment is very plain. It will mean that governmental candidates, with their supporters, will be able to get full information from the deputy returning officer or the poll clerk as to who has voted and who has not voted. That will relieve the governmental candidates from the trouble of having outside scrutineers.


Why does my hon. friend
specify "governmental candidates"?


I point out in the first instance that as a result of the answer given to me by the Secretary of State (Mr. Copip) there is no duty thrown on the *election officers to give this information; they can simply give it if they please. The result will be they will only give it to their political friends; they will give it in the direction of the gentleman who has had to do with their appointment. As a matter of practical working out it simply means, therefore, that the governmental candidates will not be put to the trouble and expense of having to maintain [DOT]outside scrutineers for the purpose of knowing who have or have not voted, whereas the other candidates will.


Would not every candidate have his agent inside the polling booth to give the information?


He might or he might not. It is perfectly clear, at least as I see it, that the opposition candidate will encounter greater difficulties than the governmental candidate unless there is a requirement to give information. That is how the matter will work out.


Surely my hon. friend
knows that the returning officer has no power to go and give information; he is there to attend to his duties. Certain information is given by the agent of each candidate. Surely the two candidates, or the three candidates as the case may be, will be on an absolute parity at 'the poll in that respect. Then why does my hon. friend speak as he does? It carries a sort of suggestion that this is being done to help the governmental candidate. This is a suggestion made by the Chief Electoral Officer immediately after the last general election when he presented his report. Surely, therefore, there is no evil intention in the present amendment.


To whom is the information
to be given? The law at present says that, except the authorized officials, only the person voting is allowed to enter the polling booth.


The candidate or his
representative at the polling booth. It is always done.


Under the
present law all the candidates are represented at the polling booths by scrutineers, but it is illegal for the inside scrutineer, or any candidate, to pass out information to the outside scrutineer or to any other person as to who has voted. However, that is done; elections cannot very well be carried on without knowing whether certain people have voted or not. The object of this is to authorize the inside scrutineer to inform the outside scrutineer, or any other person as to whether John Smith, Henry Brown, or some other person has voted.


Section agreed to.
On Section 25-Expense voucher.
Would the minister kindly give the committee further particulars about this?


This is a simple amendment
with regard to the transmitting of the polling station accounts. The act provides that they shall be enclosed in a special envelope and placed in the ballot box. This might result in delay, the accounts might be put in the wrong box and get mixed up. No provision is made with reference to the ballot box key which, under the instruction necessarily issued by the Chief Electoral Officer, is delivered to the returning officer or sent to him by regis-
Elections Act

tered mail. There is no reason why the ballot box key and accounts might not be sent to the returning officer in the same package instead of being placed in the ballot bcx. It is much more convenient.


Section agreed to.
Section 26 agreed to.
On section 27-Declaration of election.
There was some discussion in the committee as to the effect of the failure of the returning officer to make a wri ten declaration, and it was suggested that he should declare the candidate elected and also make a written declaration of it.


What is the present practice? Does it require to be sent by registered letter in every case?


The present
practice is that he does not make any declaration in writing. He simply declares a man elected, but this section requires him to make a declaration in writing. I think he should declare a candidate elected and also give a written certificate.


Section agreed to.
On section 28-Custody of ballot boxes.
Why should we carry that
section without some consideration? The question as to who should have the custody of the ballot boxes is a very important one.


This is to take care of the
empty ballot boxes after the election.


I thank the minister for
the explanation, and I think the section might be agreed to. If the minister would make an explanation with every section we would ge' on faster. I think the minister should loosen up a little.


I was giving the information
as readily as I could. Sometimes I have to get the information from the official and give it to the committee.


It is only one member
on the other side of the House who requires all the information.


He is the general spokesman for this side.	[DOT]


Section agreed to.
Section 29 agreed to.

On section 30-Inspection of election documents.
I think this
section should have serious consideration. I made some objection to it in the committee. The purpose of the section is to enable the candidate or someone on his behalf to go to the electoral office and inspect the poll book for the purpose of ascertaining who has voted.


Not the poll book.


Yes.


That was proposed in committee but not carried.


I think this is wide enough to cover the poll book.


There is no
change in section 30.


I think there is a change in that section.


None of the books can be
examined by anybody without an order from the judge.


Will the Secretary of State tell us what documents may be inspected and what may not be inspected.


The explanation given by the electoral officer is this:
Section 75, subsection 2, provides that "no person shail be allowed to inspect on any election papers in the custody of the Chief Electoral Officer" except under the order of a judge, and "election papers" are-defined by section 2 (f) as induding "all. . . . documents sent by any returning officer to the Chief Electoral Officer. ... or any instructions issued by the Chief Electoral Officer or his Assistants." It seems entirely proper that polll books, ballots and other like papers should be available for inspection only under an order of a court or judge, but the same considerations do not, it is submitted, apply to any instructions sent by or on behalf of the Chief Electoral Officer to any election officer or other person, to reports or communications made by any election officer to the Chief Electoral Officer, or to any correspondence by or with the Chief Electoral Officer. Such papers are in the nature of the proceedings of a court and should be subject to search and examination to the same extent and in the same way as the documents on file in any court of record.
That would be without an order of the court or judge, but the poll book or other like papers, which would be in the hands of the chief electorial officer, cannot be examined without an order of the judge.
Mr. STE)\ ART (Leeds): I was under the impression that poll books might be examined.
I now find that is not the case, but a lot of other documents may be inspected, and it is just a question whether this is wise or not.

Elections Act


By this section we are allowing any
person to inspect these documents, to make extracts therefrom and to be entitled to receive certified copies thereof. While a candidate or his representative might be allowed to do that, I do not think it should be open to every person to do the same.


Any voter may be interested in the matter. It must be remembered that this refers only to making extracts from certain papers, and it is left in the judgment of the Chief Electoral Officer whether he should give him what he wants without the sanction of the court. If he has to have an order from the court, he has to make an affidavit and a petition.


Section agreed to.
On section 31-Disqualification for corrupt and illegal practices.
What is the purpose of making this retroactive?


It was brought to the attention of parliament with regard to the case of a gentleman elected to this House who wa3 unseated for some corrupt practices or what were presumed to be so. In any case he was unseated and there was a question whether he was disqualified or not. This clause and clause 20, which refers to corrupt practices, provide that a man is not disqualified under the conditions that applied at that time.


I understand this subclause
(2) of clause 31 is for Mr. Johnson's benefit.


It will apply to any
similar case.


It makes provision for giving him a hearing.


And the court will have
to say, not only that he is guilty of something that under the act is an illegal practice, but *that he is disqualified as well.


Section agreed to.
Section 32 agreed to.
On section 33-Correction of French version.
I should like to draw
this matter to the attention of the minister and the Chief Electoral Officer. Proclamations are printed in the official languages of the country, which are French and English. The French proclamations are posted up in Quebec on account of the people there speaking and reading French. In the Maritime provinces we have many constituencies where the
electors are practically all French-speaking therefore, I would ask that when these proclamations are sent to French districts in the Maritime provinces, the French proclamation should be posted up with the English one, so that our people will understand what the proclamation means. During the last campaign I was compelled on several occasions to explain to our French-speaking electors what these proclamations printed in English meant.


I will remember the suggestion before the bill is finally put through and see what can be done.


Section agreed to.
Is section 32 carried?


It was
declared carried.


What was the force of
it?


Is it the pleasure of the committee to revert to section 32?


Carried.
On section 32-Number of voters required for advance poll.


How does the minister explain this section?


If my hon. friend will be good enough to read the note on tihe opposite page he will find the section fully explained. I do not think there is any difficulty about it.


Looking at the explanation, the section seems all right. But we should not rush these things through in this way.	*


Section agreed to.
Section 34 agreed to.
On section 35-Disqualification of persons
supported by charity.
Inmates of institutions supported by public charity are disqualified.


That would not refer to persons in- receipt of unemployment relief?


No.


Suppose a labour man sustained an accident and became incapacitated, and failing to get compensation he found himself in a public institution, would he be debarred from voting?


It would depend upon whether he was in the pauper class-in a charitable institution. A iman might be injured and be
Elections Act

taken to hospital, and while he might not be able to pay his expenses, he would not be disqualified.


But what about the man in
the ipoorhouse?


Under the present act the disqualification applies ito prisoners, patients in lunatic asyluims, p