Bill No. 179 for the relief of Madelaine Virginia Lumsden.-Mr. Bothwell.
Bill No. 193, for the relief of Mary Bertha Dupuis Ranger.-Mr. Millar.
(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	On whose recommendation was Canadian National Kail way baggage master, Robert J. Elliott, placed as conductor on Canadian National trains No. 23 and No. 24, between Sussex and St. John (Atlantic region) ?
2.	Was said appointment made with the approval of the order of railway conductors?
3.	If not, has that organization protested Elliott's appointment?
4.	What explanation has the Canadian National Railway Company to offer if Elliott has been advanced over those who are senior in the service to him.


1.	The relationship between the men and the management is entirely an internal affair of the railway, and any question arising therefrom is dealt with under well recognized rules. In case of grievances there has been set up machinery by which such grievances may be adjusted between the representatives of the management and representatives of the employees. That being the case, the management feel that it is not in the interest of the railway, nor in the public interest, to attempt to deal with such matters except in the prescribed manner.
2,	3 and 4. Answered by No. 1.


1.	What is the total cost to Canadian National Railways for apprentice instruction on the entire Bystem?	_
2.	What is the total annual cost for each of the regions of the system?
3.	What is the total annual cost per apprentice for each region?


1.	377,551.48.
2.
Central			$ 48,977 74
Atlantic			 10,428 00
Western			 18,145 74
Central			 S115 29
Atlantic			 69 52
Western			 90 73


1.	What was the total amount paid to A. S. McMillan and C. A. McNearney with respect to construction work at Bedford basin, in the county of Halifax, concerning which the payment of $100,000 appeared on page 270, volume 2, Auditor General's report, 1928?
2.	Of such total amount, how much represents: (a) the contract price; (b) extras?


1 and 2. The total amount paid to A. S. McMillan and C. A. McNearney in connection with their 1927-1928 contract for construction work at Bedford basin magazine is as follows: Amount of work done under contract dated August 1, 1927.. $107,900 00 Additional work ordered by
engineer in charge	 909 02
Total	$108,809 02


1.	How many Dominion experimental and demonstration farms are there in Canada?
2.	Where are they situated, by places and provinces?


1.	There are twenty-two Dominion experimental farms and stations, besides one substation, three tobacco stations and one fox station.
The Dominion government does not operate any demonstration farms, but it does supervise the operation and, in a small way assist the owners of a considerable number (186 in 1928), of what are called illustration stations. The illustration station area of a man's farm includes only that part of it fronting on a
*2244
Questions

well travelled road and varies in area from eight or ten to forty acres. For the privilege of saying what crops shall be grown, what rotation shall be followed and how and when cultural operations shall be performed the department pays the owner or operator a small amount ($5 per acre) each year. The purpose of these stations is to demonstrate the varieties of the different crops, the cultural methods and the rotations that have been found to give the best results on an experimental farm or station where conditions are judged to be similar to those which maintain on the illustration station under consideration.
The crops harvested off these illustration stations are of course the property of the men operating them.
2.
Experimental station, Charlottetown, P.E.I.
Experimental station, Kentville, N.S.
Experimental farm, Nappan, N.S.
Experimental station, Fredericton, N.B.
Experimental station, Ste. Anne de la Pocatiere, Que.
Experimental station, Cap Rouge, Que.
Experimental station, Lennoxville, Que.
Experimental station, La Ferme, Que.
Experimental station, Kapuskasing, Ont.
Experimental farm, Ottawa.
Experimental station, Morden, Man.
Experimental farm, Brandon, Man.
Experimental farm, Indian Head, Sask.
Experimental station, Rosthern, Sask.
Experimental station, Scott, Sask.
Experimental station, Swift Current, Sask.
Experimental station, Lethbridge, Alta.
Experimental station, Lacombe, Alta.
Experimental station, Summerland, B.C.
Experimental farm, Agassiz, B.C.
Experimental station, Invermer, B.C.
Experimental station, Sidney, B.C.
Experimental substation, Beaverlodge, Alta.
Tobacco station, Farnham, Que.
Tobacco station, L'Assomption, Que.
Tobacco station, Harrow, Ont.
Experimental fox ranch, Summerside, P.E.I


Is it the intention of the government to take my steps this session of parliament, or in the near future, towards meeting the wishes of the sealers regarding the matter referred to in their petition to the right honourable the premier, during 1927, which asked for an investigation of their modus vivendi sealing claims of 1892?


These claims were against the British government. They were submitted to that

government through the government of Canada, but they were not favourably considered. The British government explained that the modus vivendi was adopted in the interests of the seal fishery, and due notice of it in the seasons of 1892 and 1893 was given. As the claims were fully considered by the British government, it is felt that no good purpose would be served by reopening the question at this time.


1.	Was Dr. W. A. Groves, Fergus, Ontario employed in the Department of Soldiers' Civil Re-establishment ?
2.	What length of time did he serve in this
department?	*
3.	In what year was his appointment made permanent?
4.	Was any agreement for superannuation made?
5.	When did Dr. Groves leave the service?
6.	How much had Dr. Groves paid into the superannuation fund?
7.	Has Dr. Groves been reimbursed for such payments or is he entitled to any?


1.	Yes.
2.	Including service with the Board of Pension Commissioners, from the 24th April, 1919, to the 30th June, 1926.
3.	Dr. Groves was granted permanency under the Department of Soldiers' Civil Reestablishment Act, with effect from the 1st October, 1925, but was not made permanent under the civil service or superannuation regulations.
4.	No.
5.	30th June, 1926.
6.	$150.03.
7.	Dr. Groves was duly reimbursed. He is not entitled to any further payment.
sydnb:y-new waterford-glace bay mail


Mr. MaeDONALD (Cape Breton South):
1.	By whom is mail conveyed from Sydney to New Waterford?
2.	What amount is paid for the service?
3.	Is there a contract for the work?
4.	By whom is mail conveyed from Sydney to Glace Bay?
5.	What is paid for the service?
6.	Is there a contract for the work?
1.	Sydney and Louisburg Railway.
2.	$287.96 per annum, on mileage basis.
3.	No.
4.	Cape Breton Electric Railway.
5.	$1,687.80 for year 1928-29 on a mileage basis.
6.	No.

Questions


1.	Is a portion of postal station "B", 676 St. Catherine street west, Montreal, occupied as a private residence?
2.	If so, is this the residence of the Deputy Postmaster General as indicated in the Montreal directory and telephone book?
3.	If so, how long has the said postal station been occupied as a residence, and what rental is paid for the same?
4.	What floor space is so occupied for residential purposes?	_
5.	Is the government renting any buildings for government offices in Montreal on or near St. Catherine street? If so. what rent per square foot per annum is paid?


1.	Yes.
2.	Yes.
3.	(a) The living quarters in this building have been occupied as a residence since its completion some twenty years ago; (b) $500 per annum.
4.	3,010 square feet.
5.	Government rents ground floor space for postal station purposes at two points on St. Catherine St. Postal station "N", comer St. Catherine St. E. and City Hall ave., at $2.64 per square foot. Postal station "T", St. Catherine St. E. and Amherst St., at $3.85 per square foot.


1.	What is the position and salary of W. M. Cory in the Department of the Interior?
2.	How long has he been in the department?
3.	What was his salary when appointed?
4.	Is this man a son of the Deputy Minister
of the Interior?	_
5.	What sum has he drawn in travelling expenses during the past twelve months?


1.	Assistant departmental solicitor-$4,020, by Civil Service Commission.
2.	From January 1, 1916.
3.	S600.
4.	Yes.
5.	Nil.


1.	What is the position and salary of T. L. Cory in the Department of the Interior?
2.	What was his salary when appointed to the
said department.	.
3.	Is this man a son of the Deputy Minister of the Interior?


1.	Special legal officer, international water problems-$4,140, by Civil1 Service Commission.
2.	$300 per month.
3.	Yes.


1.	Will the act based on the Duncan report with reference to preferential freight rates of 20 per cent in favour of the maritime provinces be amended during the present session in order to locate the railway terminus in the city of Quebec instead of in the city of Levis?
2.	if not, will this important question be soon settled, conforming to the request of public bodies in Quebec?


1.	The legislative program does not contemplate any revision of the Maritime Freight Rates Act during the present session.
2.	Answered by No. 1.


Is it the intention of the government to consider the question of the railway terminus in the city of Quebec at the same time as they consider the terminus in the city of Montreal, which is asking $50,000,000 for said terminus according to the Palmer report?


The management of Canadian National Railways is at present considering the terminal situation at Quebec.


What was the total number of enlistments during the Great War of 1914-1918:	(a)
voluntary : (b) compulsory, in each of the provinces of Canada.


1.	How many cattle were slaughtered as
reactors under the bovine tuberculosis tost, during the twelve months ending January 31, 1929, in the provinces of:	(a) Quebec; (b)
British Columbia?
2.	What is the total amount of compensation awarded the owners in each of these provinces for the same period?
3.	What amount of the compensation was paid, and what amount is still due the owners as of April 30, 1929. in each of these provinces for the same period?


1. Has the government paid the purchase price of property recently acquired in the city of Ottawa, bounded as follows: on the north by

Questions

Wellington street, on the west by Elgin street, on the south by Queen street and on the east by the post office?
2.	Do the various properties mentioned in question 1 now stand in the name of the crown free from all liens, charges and encumbrances?
3.	Is the government aware that the municipal corporation of the city of Ottawa claims arrears of municipal taxes on the various properties mentioned in question 1?
4.	If the government has been advised of arrears of taxes on the various properties mentioned in question 1, what does the same amount to on: (a) Russell hotel property; (b) Francis McDougall estate; (c) C. W. Mitchell estate ?
5.	Has the government paid any taxes to the city of Ottawa in respect of arrears on the various properties mentioned in question 1? If so, what amount of arrears of taxes has been paid?
6.	What firm of solicitors acted for the government in the acquisition of the various properties mentioned in question 1, and did such solicitors give the government a certificate that said properties were free of all liens, charges and encumbrances when acquired?
7.	What were the names of the tenants or owners of the various properties mentioned in question 1?
8.	Was compensation paid to any of the said tenants or owners when the various properties were expropriated?
9.	If compensation was paid, what sum was paid to each tenant or owner?
10.	Was the government advised that the said tenants of any of them had any legal claim against the government rather than against the owner for compensation?


How many immigrants entered Canada in 1926, 1927 and 1928 from: (a) British Isles; (b) United States; (c) other European countries, designating country of origin?


1.	What was the expenditure on the government wharf at Iona, Cape Breton, 1928?
2.	How was the work done?
3.	What were the names of those engaged in this work and what was paid to each?
6.	Have any changes been made as regards charter price, and if so, why? If no change has been made, why?
7.	How many steamboats owned or chartered by Hendry's Limited, Halifax, are subsidized by the federal government for 1927 1928 and 1929, and what are the names, tonnage, route and subsidy of each, and when was each one built?
8.	Has each one of those boats passed favourable examination by the federal steamboat inspector ?
9.	Will the government hand down report of such examination?


For a copy of the report of the investigation of Judge Stubbs regarding the dismissal of Mr. A. M. Graham from the staff of the soldier settlement board.


For a copy of all correspondence, telegrams, complaints, petitions, applications and reports from the Civil Service Commission in connection with the appointment of the present postmaster at Hornepayne, Ontario, and the dismissal of Mr. Leggatt from the postmastership at Hornepayne.


For a copy of all correspondence and other documents relating to the appointment and dismissal of C. B. Rothery as clerk at the Onion Lake Indian agency, Saskatchewan, and the appointment of a successor to that office.


For a return showing: 1. The number and names of employees at the Dominion range experimental station at Manyberries, Alberta, from April 1 to November 30, 1928.
2. The actual wages paid monthly to each of the aforesaid employees from April 1 to November 30, 1928.
Hendry's limited, Halifax-charter of


1.	How many steamboats were chartered by various departments of the Dominion government from Hendry's Limited, of Halifax, for 1927, 1928 and 1929?
2.	Under what terms were these steamboats chartered?
3.	What are the names of the steamboats, the tonnage of each, when was each one built, and what is the charter price of each?
4.	What is the fitness of each boat for the service called for?
5.	Has any transfer of service of these boats been made from one department to another, and if so, what are the changes, and why?


1.	The report of R. W. Cautley or any other officer of the government relative to any investigation made, (a) in the proposed eastern Manitoba park site; (b) in the proposed Ridin^ Mountain park site.
2.	All letters, telegrams or other documents between the Department of the Interior or any other department of the government and the government of Manitoba or any member of the government of Manitoba or any member of the Mouse of Commons, relative to the establish ment ol a national park in the province of Manitoba.
3.	All letters, telegrams or other documents between the Department of the Interior or anr ether department of the government and the

Procedure Respecting Divorce
government of Saskatchewan or any member of the government of Saskatchewan or_ any member of the House of Commons, relative to the establishment of the Prince Albert National Park in the province of Saskatchewan.
4.	All reports made in connection with any investigations relative to the establishment of Prince Albert national park in the province of Saskatchewan.


For a copy of all correspondence and other documents in the possession of the government in connection with the alleged charge of attempted bribery of Customs Officer Knowles against Harry Bronfman.


This concerns more particularly the Minister of National Revenue, but I must say on behalf of tlhe Department of Justice that this must not include documents and papers which, under the rules and practice, must remain confidential. I have no objection to the motion passing with that understanding.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. GARDINER moved':
For a return showing: 1. The total amount of money paid to or on behalf of Private George Gregory, No. 160599, since his discharge from the overseas expeditionary forces at Calgary, Alberta, on June 4, 1928.
2.	The amount of money paid directly to Gregory and for what purpose, namely, pension, etc.
3.	The amount of money paid on behalf of Gregory and for what purpose, namely, hospitalization, etc.
I would be glad if this question could stand until I have had an opportunity of inquiring of the pensions commissioners as to the information that should be brought down.
Motion stands.


On the order:
House in committee on Bill No. 22 to incorporate Niagara Falls Memorial Bridge Company.
I notice that the hon. member for Lincoln (Mr. Chaplin) is not in his seat, and I would therefore ask that this bill stand.
Order stands.
78594-142J


Mr. L. H. JELLIFF (Lethbridge) moved the second reading of Bill No. 200, for the relief of Annie Forbes Sangster.
I would ask, do
these bills standing in the name of the hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Jelliff) all relate to oases in his constituency?


I wish to inform the hon.
member that none of these bills standing in my name relate to cases in my constituency. I think most of them come from Toronto.


Motion agreed to, and bill read the second time, on division.
Mr. L. H. JELLIFF (Lethbridge) moved the second reading of Bill No. 203, for the relief of Charles Stanley Cuneo.
Some time ago
those of us who come from the west were criticized in this house because we had anything to say with regard to divorce bills simply because they related mostly to the provinces of Ontario and Quebec. I think it is a very strange thing now that members from the province of Ontario cannot sponsor their own divorce bills. It seems to me that we ought to have an explanation of these bills since they have to be loaded on a man who comes from the province of Alberta. I would suggest that we have an explanation as to this particular bill.


It is one of the ordinary
cases that we have before us, of infidelity in the matrimonial relationship. I imagine that the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth) is most concerned as to the future of the children who are involved in these cases. In the particular case before us I can assure him that there are no children involved As to the bills standing in my name generally, I am pleased to inform the hon. member that I have examined the evidence in each case carefully, and I think it is amply sufficient to sustain the divorce applied for.


Motion agreed to, and bill read the second time, on division.
Bill No. 178, for the relief of Adele Cawthra Rogers.-Mr. Matthews.
Bill No. 182, for the relief of Maud Parker. -Mr. McGibbon (for Mr. Church).
Canada's Gold Reserve
Bill No. 183, for the relief of Eleanor Vair. -Mr. MeGibbon (for Mr. Church).
Bill No. 186, for the relief of Isabel Honor Gilderoy.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 192, for the relief of Catherine Goring.-Mr. MeGibbon (for Mr. Church).
Bill No. 194, for the relief of Harvey Baden Powell Haney.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 196, for the relief of Ivy Georgina Lloyd.-Mr. Jelliff.
Bill No. 197, for the relief of Helen Steele. -Mr. Jelliff.
Bill No. 198. for the relief of John Campbell. -Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 202, for the relief of Joseph Nicholl. -Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Bill No. 204, for the relief of William Allan Griffith.-Mr. Jelliff.
Bill No. 205, for the relief of Sydney Bishop. -Mr. Jelliff.
Bill No. 209, for the relief of Patrizio Nardini.-Mr. Garland (Carleton).
Motions for second readings agreed to on division.
On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, with regard to the terminal at the lower lakes, may I ask that there be placed on the file the original correspondence addressed to the United States, between certain dates, I do not know specifically when, in which a summary of the note from the United States, dated July 28, 1928, is contained?


On the orders of the day:
I think the hon. gentleman is right and that there is some correspondence between the
fMr. Jelliff.]
premier of New Brunswick and myself. I will see that it is produced. I was not aware that it was not on the file.


This had probably not been 'brought to the attention of the Postmaster General?


No, it had not.


On the orders of the day:
I wish, Mr. Speaker, to direct a question to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Robb). There is an article in the current issue of the Monetary Times in which the statement is made that sixty million dollars would be required to bring Canadian exchange back to parity with .that of the United States, and that there is not that amount of gold in Canada's reserve. May I ask if that is the real reason why gold is not being shipped at present to the United States?


Mr. Speaker, I have not yet read the article. I will read it, and then I shall be in a better position to give my hon. friend an answer.


It is not the article, Mr. Speaker, that I am concerned about; I want to get at the facts.


I am not sure that the facts are as stated.


Secondly, I wish to ask the Minister of Finance: Is it true that it will require sixty million dollars to bring our exchange back to par in New York? According to the Minister's own statement there is not sixty million dollars in our treasury reserve. I think in a matter of this importance we have a right to hear from the Minister of Finance. Do I understand that the minister refuses to answer the question?


Mr. Speaker, I have been some twenty years in this house and I have observed that it is not etiquette for a minister to rise to answer a question until the hon. gentleman putting the question has sat down. Let me say to my hon. friend that the Dominion of Canada is in a position to meet all obligations, at any time, anywhere.


I would submit, Mr. Speaker, that a general statement is not an answer to my specific question. I ask again: Is it true it will require sixty million dollars to bring Canadian exchange back to par in New York?

Western Postal Employees-Mr. Veniot


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I desire to ask the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe) when we may expect his opinion regarding appointments by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to the provisions of the Civil Service Act.


I have asked one of the officers of
the department to communicate with both the Civil Service Commission and the officers of the Post Office Department and to make a full report to me. I shall 'be quite pleased to communicate it to my !hon. friend.


On the orders of the day:
I desire to ask the Minister of Marine and Fisheries (Mr. Cardin) when I may expect an answer to my question of April 29 with reference to the fisheries of Nova Scotia?


The officers of the department are working on the answer to the question of my hon. friend.


Hon. P. J. VENIOT (Postmaster General) moved that the house go into committee to consider the following proposed resolution:
Resolved, that it is expedient to provide for the readjustment of the salaries of certain postal employees in western Canada who were dismissed in 1919 and subsequently re-employed, to give them the benefit of salary they would have received had they re-entered the service in the class equivalent to the one they were in when dismissed, and of subsequent salary revisons, and to make provision whereby certain former employees not now in the said service shall be eligible for reappointment as vacancies occur.
Explain. The motion is very indefinite in its terms.


Mr. Speaker, in bringing this resolution before the house I might refer to what happened last session. When the supplementary estimates were submitted, three or four days before prorogation, several hon. members took part in the discussion and it will be remembered that later the item was withdrawn, and I stated that the matter would be taken up next session. The reason I gave for withdrawing the item was that judging
i
from what appeared in the press and from the speeches in the house the matter had not been sufficiently studied, and I thought with a closer study of the question a better understanding could be reached. Now I am bringing the matter forward again in the shape of a bill which will be founded on this resolution. Its object is to provide for payment to the men taken back after the Winnipeg strike of 1919 of the salary they would have received had they re-entered the service in the class equivalent to the one they were in when dismissed.
It is not my intention to go into the merits or demerits of what happened at the time of the strike, but merely to relate what took place afterwards. On July 7, 1919, a special act was passed authorizing the Civil Service Commission to appoint to the permanent staff any person employed to replace anyone who went out on strike, and in January, 1920, the government agreed to an arrangement whereby employees who had gone out on strike would be re-employed, provided: First, that they had the approval of the governor in council; secondly, that they gave satisfactory assurance that a repetition of the offence would not occur; thirdly, that they passed the civil service examination; and in the fourth place, that they should begin anew in the service. The age limit was waived in their favour.
Now these ninety-six men who were taken on after the strike and reinstated as the agreement here states were demoted to lower positions; that is to say, they came in at the bottom of the ladder or as postal helpers to work their way up. That is what they were supposed to do. But when they did return to employment they were engaged in the same advanced class they had occupied in the service before the strike, although they weie paid the wages of employees of a lower grade. By way of comparison, although these figures may not be quite exact, I may put it this way in order to show what I mean. A postal clerk drawing a salary of S125 or $135 a month came back into the service as a postal helper at $85; he did the work of a postal clerk who would receive $125 but he himself received a remuneration of $85 only, or $90 as the case might be. There was that spread 'between the two.
On my tour to the coast in 1927 I stopped off at Winnipeg for three days, and this matter was brought to my attention. I went into it fully, and met a committee composed of some twenty-five or thirty persons representing all classes of postal workers in the city of Winnipeg. That committee was composed of men who had gone out on strike and had been taken back; of men who had replaced the
2250	COMMONS
Western Postal Employees-Mr. Veniot
strikers-there were some six hundred in all- and were working in the service; as well as of those who had not gone out on strike but had continued to work in the service. I met this committee representing these different classes of those concerned in the question, and they were all unanimous that those who had been token back, the ninety-six, should be paid the salaries which they earned. I would point out that if the intention was to punish those men by demoting them they should have been demoted not only as respects the amount of salary they received but, as well in the class or kind of work which they were to do. I have always believed in the principle that the labourer is worthy of his hire, and if these men were brought back and engaged in work of a higher class they should have been paid for that class of work; they should not have been demoted in the matter of salary alone.
After studying the situation very carefully and looking into all phases of it, without however inquiring into the pros and cons of the strike, or what may have brought aibout the strike, I submitted to the government that in my opinion these men for several reasons should receive the pay contemplated in section 1, the only section, of the bill to be brought down. As I stated before, I felt that they were worthy of their hire. I felt that other participants in the strike, those who had gone out from the service of the railways, industrial concerns and so forth having been taken back on the same conditions as previously, it would not be fair that the employees in the postal service should alone be signalled out for this demotion. That was one of the reasons on which I based my recommendation to the government, and it has been accepted. I do not intend to take up very much of the time of the house discussing the resolution; when the bill is before the committee we shall have an opportunity to go more fully into the merits of the question. Let me observe this, however. I read in one of the newspapers this statement:	"These men are in receipt
of larger salaries than they had at the time they went out.'' If that is so then there is nothing to pay them; it will not be necessary to put into operation this provision of the bill relating to those who went out, as regards any who may have reached after a few years the position wherein they would receive such salary as was paid them before the strike took place. Let me point out further that in this bill there is nothing which will give a preference in the way of seniority over the men who remained in the service or over those who were taken in to replace the strikers.


Did the ninety-six pass the civil service examination?


Yes. As I say, there is
nothing to give these men a preference, in the way of seniority or classification, over the men who were taken in to replace the four or five hundred who were not taken back. When the resolution is in committee I shall ask to have it amended by the omission of these words:
And to make provision whereby certain former employees not now in the said service shall he eligible for reappointment as vacancies occur.
At the time this resolution was prepared I was not aware that there was an order in council which met that very condition. Having been made aware of it, and having obtained a copy of the order in council, I did not deem it necessary to go further than the first clause of the resolution in order to meet the conditions as I found them in Winnipeg. On January 7, 1920, an order in council was passed which reads:
Many evidences have reached the Department of Labour from ex-postal employees that they now recognize they participated unwisely in the sympathetic strike in western Canada last May, and that they sincerely regret the action they then took. The gravity of their offence against the state being now realized, the government has given consideration to the possibility of removing the bar to their application through the Civil Service Commission for re-employment in the public service, and His Excellency the Governor in Council is disposed to exercise clemency so far as reasonably consistent with necessary discipline.
Ex-postal employees may therefore be considered as eligible to be appointed to positions in the civil service for which they make application as vacancies occur, and to which, in the opinion of the commission, they are justly entitled under the regulations, subject to the following conditions:
Ex-postal workers must not be re-employed in the civil service without the approval in each ease of His Excellency the Governor in Council;
Inasmuch as a number of those affected have been a long time in the public service, and are now past the age limit fixed for new employees entering the service, it will be permissible for the commission to appoint them notwithstanding the age requirements.
The words which I wish to omit from the present resolution refer to the age limit.
In every ease before being reappointed satisfactory assurance must be obtained that a repetition of the offence will not occur.
This is order in council P.C. No. 1152, containing the report of the committee of the Privy Council, and approved by the Governor General on June 4, 1920.

Western Postal Employees-Mr. Bennett
There is nothing much more for me to say except to endeavour to correct a wrong impression which seems to have spread in certain quarters. The Montreal Gazette of April 8, 1929, contained this statement:
These men were dismissed from the service, and for some reason, which no one has ever been able successfully to explain or defend, were reinstated.
This order in council explains why these men were reinstated, and I merely draw attention to that statement in order to keep the record straight. A further reference was made to this matter, which I think should be corrected. The Gazette stated:
The Postmaster General failed to secure the passage of his bill; the measure -went through the House of Commons-to the discredit of that body, but it never left the Senate. That was Mr. Veniot's opportunity to do some learning.
Everyone knows no bill was introduced and no bill went to the senate last year; consequently this statement is without foundation.
I do not refer to it in a critical way but simply wish to keep the record clear.


How many men were dismissed?


I can give all that information in committee, but speaking from memory I think 623 men were affected. I will have all those details when we go into committee-I think 96 men applied for reinstatement.


Mir. Speaker, the resolution
now before this house involves questions which have been fruitful sources of much unfortunate and painful discussion. I do not think it advisable to canvass the whole situation as we did last year; it is sufficient for my purposes to direct attention to the fact that a number of postal employees left the service of the crown under such circumstances as dislocated the public service and rendered it impossible for mail to be delivered in the city of Winnipeg. Later these men were offered the opportunity to go back to work but, not having availed themselves of that opportunity for reinstatement, they were later re-employed to the number of 96 on certain definite terms and conditions which constitute the contract between them and the state. Those conditions are contained in an order in council and are four in number. As the Postmaster General has stated, that order in council provided first that all who desired to re-enter the service should pass an examination before they were employed; secondly, that the age limit should be no bar to their re-employment as new employees; thirdly that they should be re-employed subject to
approval by the governor in council in each case and lastly that they should commence as new employees in the service.
That there was an unfortunate condition in Winnipeg in 1919 goes without saying. The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Woodsworth) last year thought the observations which were made by myself were rather stronger than the facts warranted, and not having been in Winnipeg at the time of the strike I shall content myself for the moment by reading an editorial which appeared in the Winnipeg Free Press of April 8 of this year. The Free Press was a daily newspaper at the time of this occurrence. The proprietors endeavoured to publish it as such during the strike and I take it that they had a clear appreciation and understanding of the situation which developed in that city during the progress of events. The following is the editorial, headed "The Vote for the Postal Workers" which appears in that newspaper:
It is regrettable that the Dominion government did not profit by its experience last year to the extent of declining to resubmit to parliament the vote for the Winnipeg postal strikers, which they found it advisable last year to withdraw. This matter cannot be considered without reopening the whole question of the Winnipeg strike of 1919. This is something which considerations of prudence and public welfare should suggest leaving alone; for the passage of time ^ has not in the least led to any adjustment in the -points of view of those who have disagreed as to the original, motives and purposes of the strike. Last year, in a brief but bitter debate which followed the submission of the vote to the house, Mr. Bennett said the strike was, in the minds of its promoters, a consciously revolutionary movement intended to subvert the government of the country and he cited the findings of the court in Winnipeg to support this view: while Mr. Woodsworth took the line that it was a comparatively innocent development, the character of which "had been grossly misrepresented. This involved, of course, the necessity of representing the court cases, which followed the strike, as part of a policy of injustice. Mr. Woodsworth did not boggle at this requirement. He talked about dastardly conspiracies, travesties of justice. farcicial trials. _	_ *	.
This interchange of views illustrates what is bound to happen whenever the Winnipeg strike of 1919 comes up for discussion. All the old bitternesses revive. By an agreement entered into by common consent the issue is left alone pretty much in Winnipeg on the principle of letting sleeping dogs lie; but the Dominion government is prepared, it seems, to have the question stirred rap anew and made the subject of discussions, which are bound to be violent, in both the Commons and the Senate. Because it is not possible to deal with this business of paying back money to present members of the post office staff who went on strike in 1919 without bringing up the question of the merits of the great strike. The justice of making these payments can only be established if certain things are first established; that the Winnipeg strike was in itself right; that the postal workers did right in striking in sym-
2252	COMMONS
Western Postal Employees-Mr. Bennett
pathy with it; that the Dominion government of that day had no business to issue an ultimatum that the workers must return to work or lose their jobs; that the Dominion government did wrong in trying to man the post office and give the public a service; and that the men who took the strikers' positions had no claims to consideration and should have been turned into the street when, after the strike, the strikers returned and asked for their positions. Mr. Heenan, the Minister of Labour, took all these positions flatfootedly in 1926 when he made a recommendation to Mr. Veniot, the Postmaster General, which was the immediate cause of Mr. Veniot's efforts to induce the government and parliament to make these grants.
It is not surprising, however, that the Dominion government does not relish being put in the position of appearing to confirm these conclusions; and last session Mr. Veniot and Mr Thorson made an attempt, which will doubtless be repeated this year, to make it appear that there is no connection between the granting of this money to the postal workers and the question of the merits of the action of the postal workers in leaving their employment and defying the state. They failed hopelessly because the connection is explicit and undeniable. Mr. Thorson argued that the Dominion government was under no obligation to take the strikers back, but that, having done so, it should have put them back in the positions they held when they went on strike and at the same salary; he intimated that the post office sought out these workers because it required their services and took advantage of their necessities to pay them the minimum wages. This is a very inaccurate account of what happened. Within three months of the close of the strike a concerted effort was begun by the strikers to get the government to lift the embargo and enable them to apply for employment on terms which governed entrants to the service. They appealed to every available agency to intercede with the government to induce it to recede from its position that they could never re-enter the service. Among others, the Free Press was asked to use its influence with the government to this end and gladly. did so. But there was no suggestion of reinstatement to their old positions and salaries. Had this been their demand, they would not have got the support which enabled them to overcome the reluctance of the government, well known at the time, to recede from its position.
Having regard to the seriousness of their offence and to the distinct understanding upon which they re-entered the service., it cannot be said that these postal workers have been harshly used. With respect to employment, they were given a preference, subject only to prior claims of returned soldiers; the age limit, where necessary, was waived; and they were, for purposes of pensions and service, allowed to count the period of previous employment. They have been so advanced in the service that with the exception of one or two, who have been taken on within the last two or three years, they are all in receipt of larger salaries than they.had at the time they went out. The average increase is about fifty per cent. There is good ground for doubting the spontaneousness of their demand for additional payment; but naturally, being human, they joined in the movement when they were advised that if they all pulled together and IMr. Bennett.3
used their influence they might force the government to hand them over the money. The proposed vote last year was $115,000; this year it will be larger-the assumed figure is $15(h000. The division of this sum among ninety persons, even allowing for handsome deductions for "legal expenses", would be a pretty fat thing for the recipients; and it is not surprising that there is a persistent push to secure it.
The sum, large though it is. does not. of course, mean much to the Dominion treasury; but the Dominion government ought not to delude itself with the idea that the simplest thing for it to do and the one having the least dangerous consequences, is to pay the money and stop the clamour. The Dominion government cannot accede to this demand and pay over the money without thereby agreeing to the propositions, with respect to the postal strike, set forth above; and it cannot agree to these propositions without taking a responsibility which we should think it would be to its great advantage to avoid.
That is the editorial in the Free Press. I will now quote from another newspaper, The Farmer's Advocate and Home Magazine of London, of April 18, 1929, which I think publishes a western edition. The paper is entirely out of politics and its criticism of what is being done is as follows;
Politics in the Postal Service
Canadians have had reason in the past to point to our postal service as an example of successful state ownership of a great public utility. Irrespective of partisanship and political affiliations the people of Canada have expressed their pride and confidence in this department of government; but if the Postmaster General succeeds in reinstating and reimbursing the post office employees of Winnipeg who sided with the red element during the desperate strike of 1919 the Post Office Department will soon be known as a mere political cesspool.
This action to restore the strikers to the same position and status they would now enjoy had they never defied the crown nor joined the revolutionary forces in those awful days of the Winnipeg strike is of more than local" political significance. A great principle is involved; a principle that no minister of the crown, not even a government, should be allowed to profane.
Last year a considerable item was included on the estimates to adjust the salaries of and compensate a number of the strikers dismissed from the service during the Winnipeg strike. Opposition to the measure was so strong in the commons that the item was finally struck out of the estimates and the Postmaster General executed a temporary retreat. This year, however, a bill is under consideration, and parliament will be asked to vote approximately $125,000 to reinstate and reimburse the strikers.
Anyone acquainted with the efforts put forth to prevent utter demoralization of public services in the city of Winnipeg during the hectic days of the strike is aware of the masterly manner in which Thomas Bower, postmaster at the time, kept the mail moving and prevented a total tie-up of the service that affected not only the city, but the prairie provinces as well. Mr Bower consistently refused to reinstate the striking post office employees and give them seniority over the staunch supporters who

Western Postal
Employees-Mt. Bennett
remained loyal to the crown and, even in the face of serious danger to themselves, remained long hours at their posts and made it possible for the office to function. Now as a reward for this service to the state, the Honourable Peter Veniot has forced a vacation and ultimate retirement oil the postmaster at \ymnipeg, for the purpose, obviously, of making it easier to reinstate the strikers and thus consummate some political bargain with the Labour party.
The postmaster at Winnipeg has been released from dutv in a manner quite characteristic of Honourable Mr. ATeniot's administration of the department. But the reinstatement of strikers and adjustment of salaries fortunately require a vote of money in the commons, and this provides the opportunity for the people of Canada, through their representatives in parliament, to rebuke the Postmaster General and put a stop to his high-handed political manoeuvering This abject surrender to the Winnipeg Labour party *would be an unpardonable affront to everyone who remained loyal to state laws and state institutions and struggled against fearful odds in 1919 to maintain them. More than that, anv officer of the crown merits and must have, in the honest and conscientious pursuit of his duties, the unfaltering support of the department of government under which he labours. That is one of the tenets of successful business and sound government administration. These principles the Postmaster General would violate for a mess of political pottage.
Without partisanship or political affiliations "The Farmers's Advocate" is forced to condemn untoward action in any administration. Principle is above party. The people, in the last analysis, are supreme.	,,	,
Under our system of government the people, fortunately, have a means of expression; and the opportunity here presents itself, before it is too late, to demand adherence to principle and honour in the conduct of public affairs.
As I have said, that article appears in an independent newspaper which in times past could not be charged with any particular lack of appreciation of the sendees rendered to the state by the government.
In common, I suppose, with most of the other members of the house, I have received a photographic copy of issues of the Western Labour News, taken from the provincial library of Manitoba. This was sent with the compliments of the Employers' Association of Manitoba, the prairie division of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association, the Winnipeg board of trade, the Winnipeg builders' exchange and the Winnipeg realty exchange. These articles are four in number, the first one being dated May 17, 1919. The opening sentence is:
How does the idea of using the new- parliament buildings for a labour temple strike you?


I might explain to the
hon. leader of the opposition that the photographic copy is made up of a number of sentences which were cut out of various pages and pasted together before being photographed.


I am indebted to the
hon. member for the explanation, because ^ I was not aware of that fact until he stated it. This photographic copy which we have received-I suppose every member of the house has received it-is, as the hon. gentleman assures us, and he must know, being fiom Winnipeg, a photographic reproduction of a number of paragraphs cut out of different issues of the Labor News and then photographed' in the form in which we now have it.


I wanted to explain that
the sentences had been cut out of their contexts and then pasted together and the whole photographed.


The sentences may have
been quoted apart from their contexts, but it seems to me I hat the sentence "How does the idea of using the new parliament buildings for a labour temple strike you? is certainly a sentence complete within itself. Another paragraph quoted is:
It is reported that certain rigs are delivering ice. bread, etc., without the printed card authorized by the strike committee, borne ot these carry written notices. We warn all such drivers that this is contrary to the orders ot the strike committee. Certified permits will be supplied on request by the food committee.
Another paragraph is:
Theatres and picture shows are running under strike permit so that the workers can keep off the streets.
Another one is:
All these concerns are organized fully and could be stopped on a minute's notice, but tor the present the strike committee believes that it is better to let them run-hence its order for them to stay on the job under permit.
Edition No. 2 contains this paragraph:
All telegraphers are out on strike. But. in order to avert unnecessary hardship, such men as are absolutely necessary have been sent back under strike permit to send out such wires as are passed by strike committee.
Special strike edition No. 8 contains the following:
The postal federation and the telephone operators have received their ultimatums. We wonder why they delayed so long to do this. Tn a few hours more it may be expected that the city council will do the same thing re its employees. Then the individual employers will
follow suit.	.	i _
The reply of labour is explicit. No worker will return to work until the principle ot collective bargaining and a living wage is recognized.
Then follows a paragraph from the last issue, as follows:
What will the governments, and the city councils, and the railroads, and the private
Western Postal

Employees-Mr. Bennett
bosses do? Not a single worker will go back till all are reinstated. The governments say that their employees are dismissed and that their dismissals are final. Then the issue is clear. Either the governments must eat humble pie or they must resign.
They have no other choice. Labour comprises the majority of the population. The 1,000 are so insignificant that it would need a magnifying glass to see them. It looks as if they will have to abandon the field and let their governments resign.
I t