Mr. Speaker, I beg to lay on the table of the house the authentic text of the draft conventions and recommendations which have been adopted by the tenth, eleventh, twelfth and fourteenth sessions respectively of the International Labour conference in accordance with the provisions of article 405 of the treaty of Versailles and the corresponding provisions of the other treaties of peace. Also the text of certain orders in council which have been adopted dealing with the competence of parliament and of the provincial legislatures respectively with regard to the subject matters of these draft conventions and recommendations. The text of the draft conventions and recommendations and the orders in council which have been mentioned have been transmitted to the lieutenant-governors of the various provinces.


Hon. C. H. CAHAN (Secretary of State) moved for leave to introduce Bill No. 24, to define Canadian nationals and to provide for loss or renunciation of Canadian nationality.
Explain.


This bill is to revise chapter 21 of the Revised Statutes of Canada, 1927, which is entitled an act to define Canadian nationals and to provide for loss or renunciation of Canadian nationality. Upon assuming the duties of Secretary of State I found that investigations had been made with re-

Salmon Fisheries Regulations
spect to the application of the existing statute by the permanent officials of the State department and the permanent officials of the Department of External Affairs. I found also that during the regime of the previous government the then Prime Minister, the right hon. the leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King) had procured from Professor W. P. M. Kennedy of Toronto university a very lengthy study of the essentials of Canadian nationality. With the assistance of the permanent officials of the State department and of the Department of External Affairs I have drafted this bill in order to express in appropriate terms for legislative enactment what I believe to be the essential qualifications for Canadian nationality. For instance in dealing with the claims for reparations under the treaty of Versailles some hundreds of claimants are compelled in the first place to prove that they are Canadian nationals. Many of these claimants have found themselves in extreme difficulties when they were asked to determine whether or not they were Canadian nationals within the scope and the meaning of the treaty of Versailles. Since the treaty of Versailles was ratified the government of Canada with the approval of parliament has entered into a series of international treaties and conventions, and with respect to the administration for Canada of those treaties and conventions it is necessary in many, many cases arising in my department daily and weekly to determine whether certain residents in Canada are Canadian nationals within the meaning of these treaties and conventions. Then, in respect to the administration of certain acts, such as the Copyright Act, and to a lesser degree the Patent Act, it becomes necessary daily to determine whether or not the applicant is a Canadian national. The two primary qualifications of course are first that the applicant is a British subject and second that he has a domicile in Canada. There are, however, certain variations which must be determined. This bill is an attempt, with the aid of such expert assistance as is available in the various departments and the assistance of the reports of experts which were received by the previous government, to determine and to express in simple language who are Canadian nationals within the meaning of our statutes and of the conventions and treaties above mentioned. I think it is absolutely necessary for the proper administration of the affairs of the State department that Canadian nationals should be clearly defined so as to avoid the difficulties which from day to day are arising in the administration of that department. I have

not introduced this bill as a partisan measure. In the Department of State we are really attempting to carry into effect the result of investigations and reports made to the previous government which have been amplified somewhat since the present government took office. I desire to have the bill read in order that it may be distributed to members of the house, and I ask from hon. members on both sides of the house serious consideration of the elements of this bill. Such a measure should not be passed for partisan purposes or as a party measure. It is a measure which if it is to be enacted should receive the approval of a majority of members on both sides of this house.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


On the orders of the day.
May I ask the hon. the Secretary
of State if, during the present session of parliament, he expects to be in a position to present to the house a supplementary report of the reparations commissioner dealing with the cases of soldiers who were prisoners of war?


That will depend entirely upon the progress which the commissioner makes. I have already presented a report of the decisions up to the date of the report. If it is possible to secure hearings and decisions in other cases which are before the commissioner I shall endeavour to comply with the suggestion of the hon. gentleman.


On the orders of the day.
May
I be permitted to draw the attention of the hon. the Minister of Fisheries (Mr. Rhodes) to a situation which has arisen in the maritime provinces and especially the province of New Brunswick in connection with salmon net fishing. Recently regulations were passed which if put into effect immediately, it is argued, would cause a grave injustice to the salmon net fishermen of the province of New Brunswick. Especially would the injustice be felt where net fishing is carried on along the shore of the open bays. I do not wish

Department of Interior-Retiring Employees
to argue the merits of the regulations but I wish to ask a question of the Minister of Fisheries concerning them. I have no doubt he has received some protests and I would like to know if having received those protests he will thoroughly investigate the complaints before the regulations are put into effect. Will the minister have bis officials report upon the advisability of postponing for one year the operation of these new regulations to give time fully to investigate all phases of the situation, in case such investigation cannot be made before the opening of the season this year?


In reply to the question of my hon.
friend from Gloucester (Mr. Yeniot) I may say that the regulations in question were proposed following a conference which was held at Ottawa in February. That conference was attended by upwards of thirty persons representative of every phase of the fishing industry, and the conclusions reached are substantially those embodied in the regulations. It has transpired that objections have been raised since the regulations have been announced due I think chiefly to objections arising with respect to the date of the opening of the fishing season. The question has become more acute by reason of the fact that this year promises to be an earlier year with respect to fishing than has any year within the last fifty. In view of objections which have been raised the deputy minister has been instructed to proceed immediately to the province of New Brunswick for the purpose of a further conference with those representing the industry. If it appears after such further inquiry that any hardships will result to the fishermen and to the industry, the question of modification or of postponing the application of the regulations as proposed will be favourably considered.


Will these regulations apply to the province of Quebec as well as to the province of New Brunswick? Was the province of Quebec represented ait the conference?


The province of Quebec
was represented at the conference by F. M. Gibaut, Superintendent of Maritime Fisheries, Department of Colonization, Game and Fisheries of Quebec. The regulations were made in conformity with his view as to their acceptability to the province of Quebec.


On the orders of the day.
In
view of the stigma attached to the admin- _ istration of the Civil Service Commission as a result of evidence brought down in the recent trial of two civil service employees does the government intend to investigate the commission?


Abolish it.


As I presume to represent in this house the Civil Service Commission I would suggest that until the evidence in that case is thoroughly digested by the government it would be impossible to give a definite answer to the inquiry of the hon. gentleman.


On the orders of the day:
Hon. CHARLES STEWART West Edmonton) :	Mr. Speaker, yesterday I directed a
question to the Minister of the Interior with respect to the abolition of positions in the Department of the Interior. In this morning's issue of the Ottawa Citizen I notice that a ohange is to be made in the arrangement concerning motor cars which were formerly supplied to ministers, and they are now to be granted $2,000 in lieu of motor cars. But what I am particularly interested in-if the information is correct- is the fact that those chauffeurs who have been employed for more than three years are guaranteed positions in the civil service. In reply to my question yesterday, the hon. Minister of the Interior stated that those civil servants whose positions had been abolished in the Department of the Interior were being given consideration for transfer or otherwise, and that the matter was under discussion with the Civil Service Commission. I was somewhat astonished last night-I hope it is not true-to read in the Evening Journal a statement, purporting to be made by Dr. Roche, chairman of the Civil Service Commission, in which he said that the matter had not been referred to the commission. I say at once, Mr. Speaker, that I am prepared to accept the statement of the minister. I hope that the same consideration which is being granted to the chauffeurs will be extended to those civil servants who find themselves without positions in the Department of the Interior.
Air Mail Service
Why
did'nt you take care of them?


I did, and
I shall be very glad to discuss the matter with the hon. member to-morrow when the estimates are under consideration.


Order.


I have
directed a question to the Minister of the Interior, and I think I should be given the courtesy of an answer.


I did not hear the question.


I expressed
the hope that the minister would be able to assure me that the same treatment would be meted out to the officers of the Department of the Interior who found themselves out of positions as was being given to the chauffeurs in the employ of the government.


Mr. Speaker, I did not
hear the hon. ex-Minister of the Interior put his question. He made a statement. Then he expressed the hope that the same consideration or treatment would be given to the employees who might lose their positions in the Department of the Interior as was being granted to chauffeurs who might be dismissed. The statement, I think he said, appeared in the Journal.


Yes, the
Ottawa Journal.


The statement was that
this treatment was being accorded the chauffeurs-^


I beg the
hon. minister's pardon. I did not say that. It was so reported in the Citizen.


I can only say, Mr. Speaker, that I am not responsible for what newspapers may state as to the policy of the government in that regard.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. CAMERON R. McINTOSH (North Battleford):	Mr. Speaker, I desired to ask
a question of the right hon. Prime Minister (Mr. Bennett) but since he is not in his seat,
I think-
Oh, oh.


It may be all right; I
understand it is impossible for him to be in the house at the moment.
Mr. LaVERGNE : Put it on the order paper.


I will put the hon. member on the order paper before long.


Where will this take place?


I thought, Mr. Speaker, that the hon. Minister of National Defence (Mr. Sutherland) or the Postmaster General (Mr. Sauve) might answer my question since the right hon. Prime Minister is not present.


You are all excited.


Not the slightest. It is a perfectly legitimate question, Mr. Speaker; I just want some information.


Go ahead.


All I want to know is this. There have been reports in the daily and weekly press that a substantial reduction would be made in the appropriation for civil aviation, and we find in the main estimates tabled yesterday that that reduction amounts to two and a third million dollars. My question is in regard to the air mail lines of western Canada. Many of our western centres, cities large and small, are gravely concerned as to what is the policy of the -government with respect to this service. What is the government's -policy in this regard; are they going to continue or discontinue the existing air mail lines in western Canada? If they are going t-o continue them, are they going to develop and make them air mail lines that will be really effective in the building up of real air mail facilities in western Canada?


The hon. member ought to know thait a question so put is not in order.


On -the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I rise to a question of privilege in order to correct a statement made in the house yesterday. On that occasion the hon. member for Provenc'her (Mr. Beaubien) read a Canadian Press despatch to a local paper stating that I had said at a public meeting that last winter about 1,000,000 people found employment under the joint federal-provincial-municipal relief fund. I wish to declare, sir, that the statement is not correct. I never staited any such thing. I desire to repeat the substance of what I said, namely, that in round figures 250,000 people, men and women, -had found employment under the Un-

The Address-Mr. McIntosh
employment Relief Act of last session, and that owing to the fact that the greater number of the men so employed were the heads of families, we might infer that about 1,000,000 people had received food, lodging and so forth under that legislation. I think my statement was quite in accord with the facts.


Mr. Speaker, I accept the hon. minister's statement. I read the despatch from the newspaper in good faith, and I did so because I thought the public should know the facts.


Unborn children weTe included in the statement.


The house resumed from Monday, April 13, consideration of the motion of Mr. Max D. Cormier for an address to His Excellency the Administrator in reply to his speech at the opening of the session, and the proposed amendment thereto of Mr. Mackenzie King.
Mr. CAMERON R. McINTOSH (North Battleford):	Mr. Speaker, in rising to make
a few remarks in this debate may I say that last night I listened with a great deal of interest to the hon. member for Qu'Appelle (Mr. Perley), when he presented what he considered to be some of the causes for the present commercial and industrial depression. He made a statement to the effect that the farmers were being exploited. As I listened to him I was wondering just when the farmers were not exploited under our present fiscal system, and I was surprised that he did not realize that the policy for which he and his party stand, the policy of raising the protective wall higher and still higher, will result in our farmers being exploited more and more as the years go by. He dealt also with the banking system and said it was not perfect. Of course we know it is not perfect. I understand the Bank Act will be revised in the session of 1932, and then we shall see just how far the hon. member for Qu'Appelle and his party will go in so revising the statute that our farmers will no longer be exploited nor the national prosperity menaced. My hon. friend also dealt with the wheat situation. He said he did not want to blame the pools, but he stressed the fact that the sales agency was to blame for the abnormal carry-over of wheat. So far as the pools are concerned, I believe that those in western Canada who are standing for a 100 per cent marketing proposition and those who are in favour of a voluntary organization will 22110-374
decide the issue among themselves and decide it correctly. Apparently the hon. gentleman also accepted the fact that the fiscal system under which we are labouring in Canada is perfect; he believes that all we have to do is to apply it more equitably to all Canada, and he is quite certain that agriculturally and industrially 'by means of it we are going to have a great dominion built up, with a complete organization of industries all across Canada, and that everything will be fine.
The hon. gentleman also said he would make certain suggestions which might remove these causes and improve conditions commercially and industrially, and among his suggestions was one that the Department of Trade and Commerce should be more active. He tried to throw the blame for the present industrial crisis in Canada on that department under the Liberal government. I think the Department of Trade and Commerce was quite active from 1922 to 1930; in fact it was more active during those years than it ever had been in the history of Canada. The trade returns prove that statement. In 1922 the aggregate trade of Canada was $1,502,000,000. or a per capita aggregate trade of approximately $1,500. What was the situation in 1929, seven years later? Our aggregate trade amounted to $2,655,000,000, or a per capita aggregate trade of $2,655, almost double that of 1922. These figures prove, I believe, that the department was active, and it does away with the argument that under the previous government the Department of Trade and Commerce was responsible for present conditions. It was not.
Then the hon. member said that the way to build up our agricultural life was to build it up around expert farmers in western Canada. That has been the policy of the Department of Agriculture almost from time immemorial, so far as I can see-at least since confederation. We have been building up experimental and demonstration farms to show the way in scientific farming; we have been carrying on this program from coast to coast, so there is nothing new in that argument. Then the hon. gentleman said a duty should be imposed on com for feeding purposes. I would suggest that he and other Conservative members from western Canada who agree with that argument should get together with government members from central Ontario and Quebec and present a solid front. When they do this the rest of us might be able to meet them.
In Canada, Mr. Speaker, we may expect to have our ups and downs industrially and agriculturally. We may naturally expect to have to meet major problems arising out of our national, our imperial and our international
sso
The Address-Mr. McIntosh
existence. We may expect that through these problems governments will rise and fall. Under these conditions parliament has assembled again this year, and I take it for granted that our objective is to evolve a legislative program for Canada that will benefit this country from coast to coast. We listened to the speech from the throne, and I was pleased to hear the hon. member for ReStigouche-Madawaska (Mr. Cormier) move the address in reply. I have known the hon. member for several years; I first became acquainted with him seven years ago, when we were crossing the north Atlantic in order to visit the British Isles and the battlefields of the empire on the continent. On that occasion the bilingual ability of the hon. gentleman saved the party of which he was a member a great deal of trouble and inconvenience, and through his proficiency he was able to do away with a great deal of red tape which otherwise might have interfered with the enjoyment of our visit to continental Europe. Now I might suggest to the hon. gentleman that, having proved himself so helpful seven years ago on the continent of Europe, he should prove as helpful now on the continent of America, right here in Canada, by restraining his leader and those who are supporting him in the House of Commons from enacting any extreme legislation that may have the effect of dismembering Canada in time to come, that may have the effect not of building up a prosperous dominion but rather of developing a sectionalism that will not do any good at all. May I therefore ask him to use all the influence he has in this very helpful direction. It is greatly needed.
The hon. member for North Grey (Mr. Porteous), who seconded the address, represents in this house the county and constituency in which I was born, and I compliment him upon the observations which he made during the course of his speech. I was interested in the gesture he made to the French-Canadian members of this house and also the French-Canadian people throughout Canada, when he said we ought to have a national vision big enough, broad enough and deep enough to include the two major races in Canada, the British and the French. I would say we must have a national vision broad enough for that, of course, and we should have a national vision broad enough to include not only the two major races but also all the people from the continents of the world and the isles of the sea whom we have invited to come to Canada to help us build up a new nation on the northern portion of the North American continent. I would like to see the hon. member for North Grey get in touch with members of his own
(Air. McIntosh.]
party from western Canada, so that those who do not follow that vision in that part of our country will be big enough, broad enough and tolerant enough to stand for such a vision throughout the west. During the last two or three years the leaders of the Conservative party in Saskatchewan have been standing for something which is anything but truly national or soundly imperial, something absolutely intolerant and impossible of acceptance.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I wish to refer to the speech from the throne. On close examination I find it to be divided in a triangular way. It has three sides, which are very unequal; it has unequal angles, and everything about it is unequal, leading one to conclude that in framing it the right hon. Prime Minister looked at the big questions of Canada from a lop-sided point of view. Therefore I have not much hope that out of this speech from the throne will come a program of legislation that will unite all parties and all sections of this Dominion in order to build up a great, united nation. For instance, we know that a triangle is made up of lines and points. A line has length but no breadth, and the same definition might be applied to the speech from the throne. It has lots of length, lots of words and lots of lines and paragraphs, but when you come to examine its width, which it should have if we are to have breadth in our national vision, we find there is none. It does not apply as it should to the maritimes; we have heard hon. members on this side of the house find fault with it in that respect. It does not apply to central Canada as it should; it does not apply to the middle west or to the far west. Consequently, though it has length, which is the simplest measurement anything can have, it really has no breadth of thought or vision or determination, and not having breadth of thought there is no pronounced area to it. We must have more than length and breadth in Canada with regard to a national policy; we must get under the soil and go down deep. We must have volume. Any policy that is to be beneficial to Canada must scale the heights and plumb the depths of Canadian national aspirations. If it does not do that it will be a failure. I am afraid that the program of the last special session, coupled with the one we have based upon this speech from the throne, will in time prove a failure so far as successfully meeting the exigencies throughout the country is concerned.
In the first part of the speech from the throne we find the leader of the government (Mr. Bennett) trying to sell to the people of Canada what we might call an artificial Cana-dianism. I fancy this is an example of what

The Address-Mr. McIntosh
they call their Canada first policy. We have in Canada to-day canned foods, canned music and canned propaganda, and we have in the speech from the throne an example of a canned or restricted Canadianism. And hon. gentlemen opposite are trying to sell to the people of Canada this canned Canadianism. That is to say, they tell us that if we tie up the national qualities of the Canadian people to the Tory program we shall have prosperity and happiness. Tie up the program of the government to the faith, the fortitude, the honesty and the industry of the Canadian people and it will not be long before we have Canada actually and ideally bridged when all will be well, and we shall never have to submit again to world depression. Now that is all nonsense; it is simply an impossible viewpoint. The Canadian people will judge for themselves what party and what policy they will support in the years to come, and I only hope the people of this country will do their best to become thoroughly posted on national problems-so thoroughly posted that when they go to the polls every four or five years they will make no mistake, but will decide squarely on the issues before them. If they do so I am satisfied that we shall not have the mistake repeated which was made last July, when a government that was progressive in every sense of the word was torpedoed and an opposition without much history behind it was returned to sit on the right of Mr. Speaker.
With regard to the second part of the speech from the throne, figuratively speaking, so far as the triangle I mentioned is concerned, we have the portions dealing with the special session of parliament, the Imperial conference, and one or two other things. At the special session of parliament we dealt with unemployment and the sum of 820,000,000 was brought down with the idea of wiping out unemployment. The Prime Minister and his cabinet ministers and all their followers in the election said, "If you just give us one chance we will wipe out unemployment; we will do away with it. We will not discuss it or consider it, but will absolutely eliminate it." And the people of Canada took them at their word. I do not believe that one unemployed person in Canada voted for the present opposition in the election. Practically every unemployed man and woman in Canada went to the polls and voted for our friends opposite. Those hon. gentlemen therefore are absolutely on trial, and unless they can fairly and squarely face this issue and remove it from the arena of party politics, standing true to their promises, I am
afraid their political stock will go down considerably during the next few years.
What do we find with regard to unemployment? We find that in 1930, August 1, the employment figure was 118 * S; on September 1, 116-6; October 1, 116-2; November 1, 112-9; December 1, 108-5; January 1, 101*7; and February 1, 100-7. That means that the employment index of Canadian industry has dropped from 118 to 100, a decline of 18 points in nine months; that is to say, 2 points per month. If that is not mathematical proof that hon. gentlemen opposite are not facing fairly t'he issue of employment and unemployment, I should like to know what they desire in the way of proof. Take again the unemployment situation. Unemployment on July 31 stood at 9-2; August 31, 9-3; September 30, 9-4; October 31, 10-8; November 30, 13'. 8-you will observe it is steadily increasing
__December 31, 17; January 31, 16. In other
words, the unemployment index has increased from 9-2 to 16, which is an increase of 7 points in practically nine months, or almost 1 point per month. That is another proof, so far as unemployment is concerned, that the situation has not improved. It is the duty of hon. gentlemen opposite to face the music and have this stigma removed from our national life, as they promised to do.
The other part of the speech from the throne deals with the present program of the government. We can neither analyze nor criticize it until it is brought down. When it is before us we shall study it. Now, face o face with the speech from the throne, with ,hese three aspects of it, is the amendment moved by the right hon. leader of the opposition (Mr. Mackenzie King). That amendment, I think, is very effectively arranged. The first part of it deals with the fact that the policy of hon. gentlemen opposite has not proven any remedy in the way of putting an end to unemployment; that agricultural conditions are worse than they were nine months ago; that industrial unemployment is worse than it was nine months ago; that our revenues are decreasing, and unless we do something Canada is in financial danger. The second part of the amendment deals with the fact that the Imperial conference was not a success; and that the policy propounded, the way in which it was presented, and what was done to defeat a freer trade budget in the election and, in its place, to erect high tariff walls in the House of Commons before the Prime Minister went to London, rendered the Imperial conference not only a farce but an imperial blunder. In this regard, then, the conclusion is reached that our trade relations with the motherland have been
The Address-Mr. McIntosh
adversely affected, and until something is done conditions are not going to improve. And the last part of the amendment expresses the hope that the Prime Minister and his party, when the conference re-convenes in Ottawa, will do better than the right hon. gentleman did in London; because the situation in Canada is serious and all Canadians are looking to hon. gentlemen opposite for guidance through the depressing conditions now prevailing.
May I now deal briefly with certain matters touching the riding I have the honour to represent in the House of Commons. Before leaving for Ottawa in March I thought it would be wise to have a certain number of public meetings in the constituency in order to find out just what the people were thinking about in the way of a national policy and the record of the government. To this end meetings were held at eleven or twelve different points. One meeting was held at Whitkow, and at that meeting the people went on record 100 per cent as being opposed to high protection and in favour of freer trade. At Turtleford there was only a small minority in favour of high protection; the meeting went by a large vote in favour of freer trade for Canada. At Edam the meeting voted in favour of three important resolutions. One of these resolutions was with regard to the Hudson Bay railway, the Hudson bay port, Churchill, and trade between Canada and the motherland via Churchill. The idea was expressed that the lower the rates we had across the north Atlantic, the better the port facilities, and the more the Crowsnest rates were applied to the Hudson Bay railway, the greatei success that artery of traffic would be. Another resolution went in favour of a bonus to wheat farmers in order that they might get cost of production out of the 1980 crop. The third resolution was in favour of freer trade as opposed to high and higher protection in Canada. This was the sentiment by almost a straight 100 per cent.
The next day another meeting was held at Medstead which went on record as being opposed to the drastic action of putting tariffs higher and higher in Canada. At Borden also the meeting went on record as being in favour of freer trade as opposed to protection. At Maymont the same thing took place. At Speers there was the same result. At Krydor, where 350 people were present, the meeting went on record as being one hundred per cent in favour of freer trade as opposed to higher protection. At Hafford the following night the meeting went on record as being in favour of freer trade as opposed to higher protection.
£Mr. McIntosh.]
At Glaslyn the meeting went on record as being in favour of a fiscal system along the line of freer trade as opposed to a fiscal system which afforded higher protection and which would in time divide Canada and ruin her export trade.
Previous to these meetings being held I had received resolutions from all sections of my riding, and I believe this to be the proper time to bring them to the attention of this house. This is the time when all hon. members should be given an idea of just what is taking place and the conditions which prevail in the different ridings of Canada. This is about the only way in which an hon. member can find out exactly what the conditions are industrially and commercially. The first resolution was received from Meota, a few miles out of North Battleford, and reads as follows:
1.	That we advocate government supervision of the grain exchange.
2.	That we ask the federal government to guarantee a minimum fixed price of seventy cents for the 1930 wheat crop.
The resolution received from Turtleford reads as follows:
Resolved that the Dominion government be requested to set a minimum price for wheat of seventy cents per bushel basis No. 1 northern. Fort William or Port Arthur.
The resolution received from Speers reads as follows:
In view of the very serious situation that has developed as a result of the collapse of the wheat market:-
we the members of the wheat pool^ "Speers local" urgently request that the Dominion government guarantee a minimum price of seventy cents a bushel at Fort William for No. 1 northern wheat grown during the season of 1930.
These resolutions contain many suggestions including a fixed price for wheat. The resolution received from Rabbit Lake reads as follows:
Resolved: That this council demand that Dominion government take steps to stabilize *the wheat market so that a minimum price of at least seventy cents be maintained.
From another point in the north, at Edam, the following was received:
1.	That the Dominion government be strongly urged to set a price of seventy cents per bushel basis No. 1 at Fort William.
2.	That the Dominion government are hereby requested to supervise the Canadian banks with regard to interest charges and have same reduced to a maximum of seven per cent.
3.	That in the opinion of this meeting it has become necessary and expedient for the Dominion government in the interests of the farming community to declare a moratorium until such time as conditions affecting agriculture shall have sufficiently improved to warrant its removal.

The Address-Mr. McIntosh
4.	That whereas the price to-day is approximately 56 cents Fort William for one bushel of No. 1 wheat, and whereas the price to-day is approximately $3.35 per 98 pound sack of flour. This meeting is of the opinion, and strongly urges the Dominion government that a price be set on all wheat used for consumption in Canada of one dollar and twenty-five cents per bushel. And further that the price of flour per 98 pound sack should also be set at a reasonable price, which should not exceed present
P 5. That all freight rates be lowered twenty per cent.
These resolutions have been received from points in northern Saskatchewan and they give a resume of the conditions prevailing in western Canada. They were received from pool and U.F.C. locals, the members of which know what they are talking about. When they say that conditions are serious, they are serious. I would like to know what the government intends to do. Resolutions were also received from Spiritwood, about eighty miles north of North Battleford, reading as follows:
(a)	That a moratorium be asked for embracing a period of one year at least, or for such time as is necessary to give facilities to the farmer to revert to his accustomed prosperity.
(b) That all interests and indemnities on taxes bo cancelled until a fair measure of pros-peritv be restored.
(e)	Failing a moratorium, the meeting asks that no pressure be brought to bear against those persons upon whom debts are pressing heavily.	,
(d) That all debts owing by farmers to banks, machine companies or any wealthy corporation be treated in the same manner as shown in resolution (b).
(e)	That a set price be established on
wheat and other agricultural products, and in the event of the selling price falling below this set price that the difference be met by general taxation.	.
(f)	That all banks, natural resources, timber. mines, oil wells, and water-powers be nationalized.
(g)	That the extension of credit should be through the banks alone, controlled by the government. with a suitable provision made for those in distress for whom the said credit was rendered necessary,
I notice the hon. Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Weir) is not in his seat, but that is nothing uncommon. Throughout this present session the members of the cabinet seem to be always absent. They are the ones individually and collectively responsible to Canada, but they absent themselves when important discussions are taking place. I would suggest to the hon. Minister of Agriculture that although he and his department, as well as the right hon. the Prime Minister have been telling us during the last six months that mixed farming would be the saving grace of western Canada, such statements do not apply to the constituency of North Battle-ford nor to northern Saskatchewan. That part
of Canada has been carrying on mixed farming for the last fifteen or twenty years. It has the best water and feed facilities for that class of farming and is also benefited through having more natural protection than have the prairies.	_	_
The people too possess the determination to go ahead, and they have gone ahead. They have worked by day and by night; they have toiled late and early; they have done their utmost; they have economized as best they could but they find their position to-day to be a precarious one. They find they are in financial difficulties; they find that their farms and the equities they have in them are slipping away from them, they find that they cannot pay their debts and that they owe the banks and the machine companies, and consequently something must be done. When a whole community or a whole industry finds itself in danger, naturally it looks in all directions for help. The farmers of northern Saskatchewan and of the North Battleford federal riding have been looking to the Agriculture department, to the Minister of Agriculture, to the Prime Minister and to his cabinet for many months past to see if any help was forthcoming. I read resolution after resolution which shows that the farmers think they ought to have a fixed price for their wheat. They think that because parliament met in special session in September and the government pegged the price of 170 articles which the farmers have to buy, the Prime Minister should in the name of justice come as well to the aid of agriculture. Although the system of pegging the price of wheat or any other product may not be a sound one economically, is there any reason in the world why a government which would go to the rescue of the manufacturers and the industrialists, Should not come forward and extend equal help to the farmers? These men constitute the foundation of agriculture, the basic industry of Canada, they make the wealth upon which Canada prospers; they cultivate the soil upon which all secondary industries are based and unless they succeed our industrial fabric will fall to the ground. Is there any reason why this government should not do something? Is there? I understand 'that these resolutions were most carefully forwarded to the Prime Minister and his colleagues but not one cabinet minister has dared to bring a solitary one of them to the attention of the house. Not one has been read to the house, and that is the reason I am bringing them to light and asking this government to take immediate and constructive action upon them.
The Prime Minister came out to Regina and said that nothing would be done, but I tell
The Address-Mr. McIntosh
him this afternoon that 'that does not satisfy the western agriculturists; they are going to see that something will be done or something will be doing. They are going to carry on the fight and if they do not obtain redress, we all know what is going to take place when the next elections occur-there are not going to be as many votes cast in western Canada for Tory candidates.
We will take a chance.


Well, it will be a chance, and a very slim one.
The Minister of Agriculture has been doing considerable advertising. I believe in advertising if you have a good thing to advertise, but it should be remembered that every time you advertise you have to make good or else you will fall behind. The hon. minister has been telling us what he is going to do, he has told us about the wonderful national agricultural policy which he is going to evolve. We have not seen it as yet. I would like to have him bring that down with the other resolutions that were spoken of. Let him bring it out of the closet even for half an hour. Let us examine the creature. The day has gone by for talking theoretically about mixed farming, for promises, discussions, mere conferences, announcements, commissions, theories, departmental propaganda, press despatches and statements of policy in magazines and weekly and daily newspapers across the country. The time for action has arrived. The time for fooling, twisting, backing up and turning, and doing nothing practical is over, and I should like to see the government sitting to the right of you, Mr. Speaker, do something. If something practical were done in the way of proving to Canada that agriculture and particularly wheat growing under present conditions and under the present extremely capitalistic fiscal policy, cannot prosper, that would at least be a constructive proceeding.
For instance, I would like to see the Minister of Agriculture, backed up by the government and their supporters in the house, start say two or three practical farms in Saskatchewan, in order to prove this. Let him pick out a farm in northern Saskatchewan, another in the centre and a third in the south. Let him make the farm whatever size he likes. Let him appoint a manager, select his working crew, and secure machinery. Let them start to cultivate the soil scientifically, with all the energy they have. Let the head men be selected by the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister of Canada, and let them go to work and try to
fMr. McIntosh.]
demonstrate to the people of Saskatchewan, north, south, east and west, whether agriculture can prosper under the fiscal system of higher and higher tariff as we have it to-day in western Canada. I venture to say that such an experiment cannot succeed, but I would like to see a real business test made to find out just where agriculture stands.
A farm managed in that way would have a system of accounting and would be expected to pay operating expenses, wages of the help, interest on capital invested, depreciation, repairs and dividends. If it cannot pay these items as big business, industry and commerce pay them, then it will be amply demonstrated to all Canada that with the best of virgin soil, the best of management, the best of equipment and everything in its favour excepting a false fiscal system, agriculture is in the doldrums and cannot be gotten out without some help. It is in a slough of despond. Something practical and constructive ought to be brought forward to prove that under present conditions the problem of farming must be faced resolutely and courageously, with no more theories and mere discussions, and without any more promises made to the people. The time for correlated action has arrived, and the people of Canada are anxiously awaiting for the government to do something.
We have heard from time to time from hon. members opposite that the farmers of western Canada do not know their business; that they do not know how to cultivate the soil; that they are not practical.


That they are
lazy.


They tell us they are
not thrifty enough. They tell us that they do not go at the problem of agriculture constructively as our railway authorities and commercial experts do in their particular lines.


The hon. member for
Brome-Missisquoi (Mr. Pickel) has aocused them of being lazy.


Yes. They tell us that the farmers of western Canada are lazy and that no matter what you do with those at present farming in western Canada, they cannot get anywhere. I resent that unfair imputation. Let the Prime Minister, who is a man of big business, and other hon. gentlemen who are men of genius, so we are told, get behind these practical farms. Let them give these farms their united support and let us see what they can prove to the people of

The Address-Mr. Barrette
Canada with regard to the farming situation. If they can prove that such farms can be made a success, their political future is made. If they cannot do so, their political future is not made; it will be doomed to dire failure, and something constructive for agriculture will have to be undertaken from coast to coast.
May I give some figures just to illustrate the present serious agricultural situation? I have under my hand a trade chart, and I find that price trends are all against the agriculturist and in favour of the industrialist. The figures are as follows:
Price Trend
Declines in commodity price levels from November, 1929, to January, 1931
lion and steel	 5 percent
Pipe		2.2 per cent
Scrap	-	
19.4 percentHardware	
1.6	percentWire	
no	changeManufactured Products	
14.5	percentFlour and milled	products.. 39.5	percentTextiles and fibres	
15.9	percentRaw cotton	
41.3	percentCotton fabrics	
10.1	percentRaw wool	
37.4	per centWool cloth	
14.0	percentCarpets	
no	changeFarm products across	Canada.. 49.7	percent
Field crops throughout the
Dominion	 54.6	percent
The price of grain in western Canada has declined practically 60 per cent; in other words, wheat is worth now only 40 per cent of what it was a year ago, and the farmer is caught betwixt the upper and nether millstone, -between the price of the industrial products he has to buy, which has been pegged by the present government, and the price of the farm products he has to sell. Consequently, there should be no misunderstanding as to the reason for his present serious economic condition.


Mr. Speaker, I first wish
to extend my congratulations to the mover and seconder of the address in reply to the speech from the thrcne. In carrying out their task they made use of very appropriate language and their eloquence did them credit.
I wish also to refer to the sudden demise of two colleagues who were still with us at the emergency session in September last. I mean the hon. member for Hamilton (Mr. Rennie) whom I had not the privilege of knowing personally, but my recollection of him is that of an upright man, who has known but the path which leads to honour. As to the hon. member for Three Rivers (Mr. Bettez), I knew him intimately and he frankly welcomed me to his friendship. The member for Three Rivers was truly one to emulate, he was a
conscientious worker and the result at the polls on July 28, 1930, was ample proof of his popularity. Yet, the old Liberal guard was hostile to him. The leader of this faction was the hon. Senator Jacques Bureau, who openly opposed Mr. Bettez, and that surely was the cause of bitter feelings and heartburns in the ranks of the Liberal party, and I hope the effects will be apparent shortly; when the by-election takes place.


That remains to be seen!


It affords me much pleasure to welcome back my friend the ex-Minister of Justice (Mr. Lapointe), following his illness; I knew him on the benches of our university. He is a fine specimen of our race and certainly does us credit.
May I state, sir, that following the elections of 1911, I had the privilege of visiting western Canada. In passing through Calgary I was the guest of honour of the member who then represented that riding, at Ottawa, the right hon. Mr. Bennett, and on that occasion I predicted that he would one day become Prime Minister of Canada. My prophecy has come true. I was a guest at dinner that night of the Prime Minister of to-day.
In 1911, I was elected as member for the riding of Berthier, and from 1911 to 1917 my contentions are that I conscientiously fulfilled my duties as the people's representative in this house. I honestly admit that, at times, it was a real hardship to detach mysel'f from my party, especially on questions of the utmost importance. On imperial questions- those of a higher order-I almost invariably took issue with my party. I obeyed in this the voice of my conscience and justified the expectations of those who had done me the honour of electing me in 1911. I always stated openly what was in my mind and I shall continue to abide by the same rule.
In 1921, I was a candidate in the riding of Berthier. In 1925 and in 1926 I was a candidate in the riding of Berthier-Maskinonge- there was an increase in the family. In each of these elections, you must recall the fact, you gentlemen of the Liberal party, an appeal was made to fanaticism, to public passions, and it was stated that all the leaders of the Conservative party then and in the past, were dangerous imperialists. To be an imperialist meant to foster the interests of England in preference to those of Canada: all for England and nothing for Canada. You will recall, sir, that in all those elections, in the Liberal shops new wars were being turned
5S6
The Address-Mr. Barrette

out. In 1921 it was in Japan. In 1925 and 1926 it was in Russia. In 1930 it was in India. The latter being a dangerous and a serious one. The following manoeuvres were concocted in Liberal clubs: we shall organize, we the good Liberals; once more shall we frighten the people, we shall wave the flag of conscription and with such phantoms we shall win the elections. They succeeded in 1921; again they did the trick in 1925 and 1926, but in 1930 they missed their shot. To prove to you how well their mano