Tenth report of standing committee on banking and commerce.-Mr. Cleaver.
Third report of standing committee on railways and shipping owned, operated and controlled by the government.-Mr. Clark.
Second and third reports of the standing committee on industrial relations.-Mr. Croll.
Mr. RALPH MAYBANK (Winnipeg South Centre) presented the third and final report of standing committee on radio broadcasting.
On a question of privilege, I should like to say that this is a majority report. No Progressive Conservative member of the committee voted for it.


I did not vote for it.


On the order for first reading of senate bills:
Mr. Croll, for Mr. Mav-banlc, moves, seconded by Mr. Winkler, that bills Nos. 432 to 442 inclusive, divorce bills, be now read the first time.


I wish to take exception to these bills being read the first time until we have a copy of the evidence. I have not a copy of the evidence of Bill No. 432.


Order. I call the hon. member's attention to the fact that the first reading of senate bills is not debatable.


Bill No. 432, for the relief of Pierre-Ben-Danais Warren.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 433, for the relief of Ethel Florence Rhodes Pompetti, otherwise known as Ethel Florence Crowdy Pompetti-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 434, for the relief of Elisa Jamoul Hull.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 435, for the relief of Ernest Stanley Rundell.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 436, for the relief of Thelma Lillian Dalton Hilger, otherwise known as Thelma Lillian Dalton Goernert.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 437, for the relief of Mary Alice Berrigan Hamelin.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 438, for the relief of Dorothy Mary Boyce Jackson.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 439, for the relief of Edith Oberfeld Mintz.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 440, for the relief of Roger Lebeau. -Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 441, for the relief of Sheila Marcus Issenman.-Mr. Maybank.
Bill No. 442, for the relief of Zenobia Perrow Broadbent Emond.-Mr. Maybank.
Mr. Croll. for Mr. May-bank, moves, seconded by Mr. Winkler, that the said bills be now read the second time.


Mr. Speaker. I do not think any member of the House of Commons should be asked to pass any bills about which he knows nothing at all. As I see it, we should have the evidence before we pass the bills. I object to Bill No. 432 being passed until we have a copy of the evidence.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


No. On a point of order, I am entitled to that information. A bill cannot be passed when the evidence is not submitted.


I understand that the bills will be distributed today. We have had first reading this afternoon. Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?
Mr. GRA1 DON: Mr. Speaker-


On a point- of order, a bill cannot be submitted to the house for second reading unless the evidence has been made available.


If there is any objection, next sitting of the house.


Right Hon. C. D. HOWE (Acting Minister of Mines and Resources) moved the third reading of Bill No. 365, respecting certain national parks and to amend the National Parks Act.
Motion agreed to and bill read the third time and passed.
Civil Service Act
AMENDMENTS RESPECTING VETERANS* PREFERENCE, INCREASED SALARIES FOR COMMISSIONERS, ETC.
Hon. COLIN GIBSON (Secretary of State) moved the third reading of Bill No. 413, to amend the Civil Service Act.
Last night on second reading and in the committee stage there was considerable debate on this bill because of the failure to include in the definition of veterans for civil service preference members discharged from the merchant navy of Canada. Quite a few hon. members have different interpretations of the understanding that members of the veterans affairs committee of last year and the year before had with regard to merchant seamen rehabilitation. In the main I agree that most of us on that committee believed that we were to have something better than we have had. As I pointed out last night, it does not cost the government any more to hire merchant seamen than it does to hire veterans of any other service. Hon. members on all sides have supported the view that merchant seamen should be given the preference. Because the veterans committee was composed of hon. members of all political parties, and because I should like to see veterans affairs kept as free from partisan politics as possible, I am going to move, seconded by the hon. member for Vancouver South (Mr. Green), who has given yeoman service to the cause of the seamen, that the bill be not now read a third time. I do not want to detract from the very valuable work that is being done by other hon. members, but because the hon. member for Vancouver South was in the forefront of the battle last night he is going to second my motion. I move:
That Bill No. 418 be not now read a third time, but that it be referred back to the committee of the whole with instructions to amend the said bill so as to extend to merchant seamen the provisions accorded to veterans in the said bill.


I am very glad to have the privilege of seconding this amendment, and I trust that the Prime Minister will allow the government supporters to treat it as non-controversial and let us have a test of the feeling of the house on the question. I am quite sure that the members of the veterans affairs committee which sat last year were unanimous in the view that the merchant seamen should be treated as the fourth arm of the forces, and I do not think any of them would object to
[Mr. Howe.l
these merchant seamen being given the veterans preference under the Civil Service Act.
After all, Mr. Speaker, this veterans preference is based on the principle of service to the nation. That is the reason the preference was given after the first war to men who had served in the Canadian forces, and is also the reason it has been extended to men who served in the forces in the second' war. I submit that the merchant seamen should be considered, as indeed they are considered, as having constituted the fourth arm of the Canadian service.
I would refer the Prime Minister to the speech from the throne in the session of 1945, dated September 6, which, as members will see, was only about three short weeks after the fighting had stopped. In that speech from the throne we find this expression:
Our country will ever remember with pride the heroic exploits of Canada's fighting men and merchant seamen.
Just a week ago today, on the first of July, the right hon. the Prime Minister made a statement which was really very much to the same effect. Speaking on Dominion day, he said, as reported "at page 4888 of Hansard:
We look back with tremendous pride on the part which our defence forces were able to take, along with those of allied and associated forces; the contributions made by our army, our navy! our air force and the merchant marine; . . .
There you have the picture. The Prime Minister himself treated these men as having been one of the arms of the service, and I repeat that they should be given the veterans preference under the Civil Service Act. I would appeal for support for this amendment from the Prime Minister and his cabinet, and also from the private members of the government party.


This subject of the veterans preference is one that received very careful consideration last year by the veterans affairs committee. I do not take second place to anyone in my admiration of the merchant marine and the members thereof, but I do feel that there is a difference in service as between t'he merchant marine and those who served in the armed forces overseas and are now entitled to the veterans preference in the civil service.
Various other benefits have been provided for members of the merchant marine, and I would refer to a letter that was received by all members of parliament from the merchant marine rehabilitation society, head office, Vancouver, British Columbia, dated April 22,

Civil Service Act
1947. The letter was sent out by A. J. Heide, secretary treasurer, addressed to the Department of Transport, in which he states:
In answer to your request, in the course of our conversation last Saturday, for specific benefits this society believes the men who served in Canada's merchant marine during the war years are entitled to, we submit the following three as the most urgent.
Then he sets out the three as follows: first, medical and dental care; second, educational and vocational training; third, disability grants.
I submit, sir, that the merchant marine do not consider that the veterans preference is one of the benefits in which they are particularly interested or to which they are particularly entitled. I would also refer to" the resolution passed by the army, navy and air force veterans of Canada, in which they state:
Therefore be it resolved that the dominipn government be requested to maintain this preference as it now stands in the statute of this dominion.
I want to point out that consideration has been given to extending or modifying the veterans preference, but it has been considered that if the veterans preference is to mean anything it should not be extended to such a wfide field that those who served overseas rvould not secure any particular advantage. For that reason the veterans preference has not been extended to those who served in the armed forces in Canada, and I can see that if we started extending it there are other groups that could come in, particularly for example those members of the Royal Canadian Air Force who were in Canada in the air acting as instructors in very dangerous work. They would have a claim and could say that they had also risked their lives.
The preference could be extended widely if we opened the door. I feel we have adopted the right policy in restricting it to a limited number and I do not think that we should open the door any wider. I -would also point out that in the recommendations of the veterans affairs committee last year the committee recommended in its final report:
Various proposals have been examined for extension or curtailment of the veterans preference for employment in the civil service. Your committee does not recommend any change in the existing legislation at the present time.
In view of that recommendation the present bill has been submitted, and until a further recommendation is received from a similar committee I think that the veterans preference, as included in the act, should stand.
Right Hon. IAN A. MACKENZIE (Minister of Veterans Affairs): As one who was closely identified with the activities of the 83166-332J
veterans affairs committee a year ago I want to endorse entirely the remarks of my colleague, the Secretary of State (Mr. Gibson). If anyone should be inclined kindly to the cause of merchant seamen it should be I, because my father was one in the service of the merchant navy in Scotland. But I wish the committee would know the facts as the facts were adduced before us last year.
Last night my hon. friend the member for Fraser Valley (Mr. Cruickshank) made a statement in this house which I resented and still resent. He said that these men were left out in the cold. Let me tell the house what was done for these merchant seamen by the people of Canada. The monthly remuneration was increased to a basic rate of $89.93, to which was added a war risk bonus of $44.50, making a total of $134.43 per month. Was that leaving them out in the cold?
Income tax was paid on the basic rate only, war bonus and subsistence being exempted. A special bonus was paid on gross earnings, for a minimum period of six months' service in dangerous waters prior to April 1, 1944, provided a seaman signed an agreement to serve for two years or the duration of the war, or alternatively, signed an agreement to join a reserve of seamen if called upon. Merchant seamen who have received a special bonus for war service prior to April 1, 1944, are eligible to participate in the Veterans Insurance Act. Was that leaving them out in the cold?
A war service bonus of ten per cent on gross earnings was paid for service subsequent to April 1, 1944, until the end of the war, for seamen who served on agreement or were listed as permanent employees of a Canadian company. Was that leaving them out in the cold?
Leave on pay at the end of each year on agreement was allowed, together with round trip rail transportation from a manning pool to the seaman's home, at the low cost of one-third of the one way fare. Was that leaving him out in the cold?
Merchant seamen on completion of service were entitled to receive railway transportation from the port of discharge to t/heir place of permanent domicile. During service on a manning pool two year agreement a merchant seaman, if incapacitated for sickness or injury, received basic pay for a maximum period of twelve weeks. Was that leaving him out in the cold?
Merchant seamen who qualified for the special bonus are entitled to vocational training to assist them to advance in their profession at sea. Is that leaving them out in the cold?
Civil Service Act


Rut not general vocational
training.


Within their own profession. Merchant seamen who left civil employment to serve at sea during the war are entitled to the benefits of the Reinstatement in Civil Employment Act. Is that leaving them out in the cold?
An hon. MEMBER. That did not give them much.


Merchant seamen
entering insurable employment are entitled, after fifteen weeks in such employment, to have their service at sea during the war counted under the Unemployment Insurance Act as if that time had been spent in the insured employment subsequently entered upon. Is that leaving them out in the cold?
Thus the extent of unemployment insurance benefit is calculated on the fifteen weeks plus the time spent at sea for which a merchant seaman has received a war service bonus. Is that leaving him out in the cold? Any unemployment occurring prior to the end of the fifteen weeks is covered by a special out-of-work allowance, provided the merchant seaman had received a war service bonus and was in good standing with the manning -pool on August 1, 1946. Is that leaving him out in the cold?
Pension for disability incurred from enemy action or counter-action is payable to merchant seamen serving on any Canadian ship, and to Canadian merchant seamen serving on ships of allied nations employed in service essential to the prosecution of the war. Is that leaving them out in the cold?
A disability pensioner is entitled to free medical care, with allowances during hospitalization for his pension disability, and is eligible to participate in the benefits of the Veterans Land Act and the Veterans Insurance Act.


Only if a pensioner.


I said so.


There are very few of those.


I said "a disability
pensioner". My hon. friend did not hear me aright.


There are only about thirty pensioners.


If debarred by their
disability from following their former profession of seamen, they may be given vocational training under the Veterans Rehabilitation Act for any other occupation.
In case of death from similar causes, widows and dependent children are pensionable. A 
Canadian merchant seaman in receipt of a pension from an allied nation is entitled, during residence in Canada, to have his pension raised to the Canadian scale.
Merchant seamen detained by the enemy received a detention allowance equivalent to their basic pay and war risk bonus, and also the special bonus. Dependents of merchant seamen who were detained by the enemy received appropriate portions of this detention allowance for their maintenance, the balance being paid to the seaman on his return to . Canada.


And workmen's compensation.


And there was a compensation measure introduced by my colleague in addition to that.


That was post-war.


Would the hon. member like to compare what Canada is doing with what is being done in England?


Oh, oh.


This is Canada.
Mr. 'MACKENZIE: Yes, this is Canada; and we are far ahead of any other country in the world in what we have done for our merchant seamen. I do not take second place to anyone in this house in my sympathetic friendliness to the merchant seamen of Canada. I think they are a glorious band of men.


Then why not give them the preference?


Because there is an essential and fundamental difference between the terms of service of the merchant seamen and those of the members of the armed forces. Listen to this question which was asked in the English parliament. This was on February 27, 1945. Sir W. Wayland asked the parliamentary secretary to the Minister of War Transport whether His Majesty's government propose to accord to the personnel of the merchant navy any recognition of its splendid services on the same lines as the services gratuities. Mr. Noel-Baker, who is a thorough democrat if there is one in the empire, made this reply:
His Majesty's government have frequently expressed their deep appreciation of the magnificent services rendered to the nation by the officers and men of the merchant navy. But they must take into consideration the fact that these officers and men have been employed throughout the war at industrial rates of wages, negotiated and settled by the national maritime board. In view of this fact, the government consider that they would not be justified in granting to the men of the merchant navy the gratuities wdiich the services will receive.

Civil Service Act
In conclusion, sir, may I say this. This government is most kindly disposed to the case of the merchant seamen. I am sure that I have the support of my Prime Minister in saying this, that the government will be glad to give further consideration to this entire problem. But in the light of what has been done in these fourteen benefits already extended to them, when I hear anybody in this house say, as happened last night, that they were left out in the cold, I get a little bit sore, as I did. I can assure the house that the government is not indifferent. The government will not be forgetful. The government will be generously disposed towards every possible further consideration of this problem. At the present time, however, I think the bill as it is should be passed by this. house.


May I say a word, Mr. Speaker?


Get in out of the cold.


Apparently the hon. member for Fraser Valley has been left out in the cold. I am sorry I have not the poetry of expression enjoyed by my colleague, the minister from British Columbia.


The hon. member is better off without it.


But I can still appreciate, as I am sure he can, that patriotism and service to one's country cannot be judged in dollars and cents. When I hear my good friend, with all his eloquence, describing the men as not being left out in the cold, I wonder how the minister would feel if he were in the stokehole, with no chance of escape, and the boat was sunk in the middle of the Atlantic ocean. Would he be left out in the cold?


He' would be all wet.


I am proud of what Canada has done for her merchant seamen, and of what Canada has done for everyone who served his country. But no minister or any one else can tell me that service to country, or the patriotic feeling which impels it, can be measured in dollars and cents. I do not know anything about the merchant marine. I never had any experience in serving in the navy. But I know something about soldiering; and I want to tell my friends that my experience in soldiering was in the front line. I do know something of the feeling of a man who is staking his all, not for $1.10 a day as in the first great war or $1.50 a day as in the last war, but because he believes in something; because he believes
in Canada, because he believes in democracy, because he believes in all the things that are right and just. When these men went out there to serve in the cold Atlantic they took all the chances in the world. I want to point out that in our own literature we boast of the fact that the largest convoy to cross the Atlantic in the last war consisted of 167 ships from Canada. Under the leadership of the Minister of Reconstruction and Supply (Mr. Howe) we produced the sinews of war. The people at home did their part, but they did it at good wages. I saw pictures of that convoy published by a board; I think it was called the information board, or the national film board, or something. Anyway I know it cost a lot of money. Those people stayed at home; certainly they did not get cold. This picture showed all those boats deploying for the trip across the ocean, guarded by destroyers; and on that trip they were at all times, subject to attack by submarines. Neither the minister nor anyone else can tell me you can judge what these men did for their country in dollars and cents, even at $134 a month, with income tax paid only at the basic rate. I don't care what the income tax was paid on. We in this House of Commons paid income tax, but we sat here in security because the merchant seamen were able to get the sinews of war over to Britain to enable the Canadian army to carry on. The minister mentions people being left out in the cold. I want to tell you that those who should feel left out in the cold, those who should feel cold in their hearts, are the people who sat in security in this house while the merchant seamen were crossing the Atlantic.
I admit that Canada has done much. I grant all the points mentioned by the minister. But I do not take into consideration what any other country has done. I am a Canadian and proud of it. I was not born in Canada but in the United States, and came to Canada when I was eight months old. My father was born in Canada and all my people were Canadians. I am proud of Canada, proud of her record in 'the war, proud of what she has done for her veterans and for her merchant seamen. But I tell the minister that I think these people are being left out in the cold as long as there is anything more Canada can do to improve the lot of the merchant seamen.


Mr. Speaker, this question of the merchant marine has been discussed on many occasions since the opening of parliament and, as has been pointed out, it was the subject of some discussion in the veterans affairs committee last year. T m
Civil Service Act


Mr. Speaker, we in this group are of the opinion that the men of the merchant marine are entitled to the same benefits as the men of the armed services. To my mind it has always been incredible that men who served on oil tankers and faced such tremendous hazards should be denied benefits given to men who served in the armed forces in bomb-proof jobs. I recall that when this matter was brought up from time to time in the veterans committee the majority of the members were of the opinion that greater benefits should be given these men.
When we were discussing the Veterans' Land Act we requested that merchant seamen be included in its provisions, and at that time the minister said that he did not think it would be wise to include them because their services would be required on ships after the war. We know now that many men for one reason or another have had to leave the merchant marine, and surely those men should be entitled to full benefits under the Veterans' Land Act rather than having those benefits confined to those who receive pensions. For these reasons we in this group will support the motion before the house to refer the bill back to committee with instructions to amend it so as to extend to merchant seamen the benefits extended by the bill to veterans.


Mr. Speaker, the amendment proposed by the hon. member for Swift Current (Mr. Bentley) does not involve any expenditure of money by the government; it merely gives to the members of the merchant marine the same right to apply for positions in the civil service as is now accorded to veterans of the three armed services.
It can be stated with a great degree of truth that the men who served in the merchant navy went through experiences equally as difficult and dangerous as those faced by any of the other services. It is true that the only men
who faced experiences more difficult were those who served in the air crews of the allied forces.
It must be remembered that the men who served on merchant ships had little protection during the early days of the war, particularly in 1941 and 1942, when escort vessels were few in number. At this period merchant ships went down by the dozen in the north Atlantic, and the casualties were extremely high. As I say, the protection provided by the allied powers was meagre indeed. In answering some questions which had been asked by the hon. member for Comox-Alberni (Mr. Gibson) the minister stated, as recorded on page 1651 of Hansard:
The monthly remuneration of able seamen was increased to a basic rate of $89.93, to which was added a war risk bonus of $44.50, making a total of $134.43 per month.
But no mention is made of the fact that the war risk bonus was paid only while the ship was at sea. It is impossible for a ship to operate any length of time without going into port for repairs or to load or unload a cargo. Thus a ship would be actually at sea for probably not more than nine months in the year, so there would be three months during which the war risk bonus would not be paid. That would bring down considerably the monthly remuneration when averaged over the year. It should also be remembered that the merchant seaman had to buy his own wearing apparel, which meant a considerable reduction in his monthly pay.
A little further on the minister said:
Pension for disability incurred from enemy action or counter-action is payable to merchant seamen-


I am sorry to interrupt the hon. member, but I am not sure whether he is referring to a previous debate in this session. If he is, he is out of order.


He is following the argument of the minister.


Those were answers to questions which had been on the order paper.


I understand the hon. member is referring, not to a debate but to answers to questions on the order paper.


On April 16 I asked how many men who had served in Canada with the merchant marine during the war were in receipt of disability pensions. The answer I got was that there were 22 receiving such payments, together with ten Canadians who had served on ships not under Canadian registry. That makes a total of 33 men who served in the Canadian merchant marine or on ships of

Civil Service Act
the allied nations who are receiving disability pension. That is not a very large number when we remember that more than 3,000 Canadians serving on our merchant ships were lost during the war. I have not the total number of those who served during the war years, but the number must be great. When these things are taken into consideration it will be recognized by all members of the house that something more should be done for these men who served so well during the war years.
I do not think it need be mentioned again that the Prime Minister (Mr. Mackenzie King) and the Minister of National Defence (Mr. Claxton) have given many indications of their understanding of the status of merchant seamen as compared with other war veterans. It was a mistake right from the start that these men were not considered to be on the same basis as others who served in the three armed services. I urge upon the minister that immediate steps be taken to give veterans of the merchant marine the same rights when applying for civil service positions as are accorded to members of the other armed forces.


Mr. Speaker, as the minister charged with the responsibility of administering the branch of the director of1 merchant seamen I think it is fitting that I should say a word in this debate. I am pleased to note the difference of attitude in the debate on this subject today from that last evening and in previous debates. The attitude today is to the effect that the men of the merchant navy are not entitled to the same benefits as the members of the armed forces.


I do not know where the minister got that idea.


I would like to correct the minister. I stated definitely that I thought *jhey were entitled to the same benefits.


I am quoting the words of certain hon. members in this debate. I have them down before me now. One said: The men of the merchant navy are entitled to the same benefits as those of the armed forces. That is the whole problem we are faced with, whether or not they are so entitled. That is an entirely different attitude from the one that was taken last night which was, first of all, that the men of the merchant navy were left entirely out in the cold, and secondly, on a previous occasion the attitude of one hon. member on the other side of the house who said that Canada had treated her merchant [Mr. Moore.)
navy shamefully. My colleague, the Minister of Veterans Affairs (Mr. Mackenzie) dealt with that point, as I did myself on another occasion, and placed on the record enough evidence to establish I think to the satisfaction of the house that those charges are not well founded and are far removed from the truth.
The point . is this, that the men of the merchant navy, rightly or wrongly, were not treated as being entitled to the same benefits as the members of the armed forces. I am not going to debate whether or not that should have been done at the time. I am simply making the statement that faced with the position that they were not considered as veterans in the same light as were members of the armed forces, the government had to deal with the problem accordingly. And so what happened was this. The government gave consideration to a number of recommendations that were made by the veterans affa.irs committee, by the director of merchant seamen and by others, granted some of those recommendations and refused others.
The members who have spoken thus far feel that we have not done enough. That may be so. But I am still of the opinion, and I do not think there can be any successful contradiction of this, that Canada has done for her merchant seamen far more than any other country has. It has certainly done more for them than the United Kingdom because in that country neither of the two bonuses that Canada gave were given to their merchant seamen-the special bonus of ten per cent granted by Canada on certain earnings of merchant seamen who served for six months in dangerous waters, and the war service bonus on gross earnings for the year. Neither of these was granted by the United Kingdom. My colleague has given the reason why that was done in the United Kingdom. It was 'because there the merchant seamen were considered as civilians and were not placed in the same category as members of the armed forces and were dealt with accordingly. We followed the same practice in this country. But notwithstanding that we granted benefits to men of the merchant navy which they did not receive either in the United Kingdom or in the United States.
One hon. gentleman went on to say something about the number of those who had received pensions. I placed figures on the record the other day showing that 6,752 merchant seamen had received the ten per cent war service bonus at a cost of $1,500,000, and 4.700 merchant seamen had received the special war service bonus at a cost of $1,300,000
. JULY 8, 1947
Civil Service Act
[DOT]which together with other benefits ran the total to something close to 85,000,000. The total expenditure made by Canada on behalf of merchant seamen during the war and since ran over $14,000,000. In the face of that I do not think it can be said that nothing was done by Canada for her merchant navy.
I want to conclude with this, and I think it is significant. In 1945 the estimates of the director of merchant seamen were brought down in the house and very little, if anything, was said about the treatment given to the men of the merchant navy. In 1946 again the same thing happened. Very little was said about the ill treatment that parliament or the government was giving to the men of the merchant navy.


In 1945 the veterans affairs committee was sitting and it was felt that these men would be considered.


Answering my hon.
friend I will quote the conclusion of the report of the veterans affairs committee at page vii. Let my hon. friend listen to this:
Various proposals have been examined for extension or curtailment of the veterans preference for employment in the civil service. Your committee does not recommend any change in the existing legislation at the present time.


At the present time.


That was in 1946, and at that time that was the conclusion of the committee.


They did not deal with the nerchant seamen in that at all.


In 1946 the Minister of Transport brought before the house an act establishing compensation for merchant seamen. Was there any discussion on that bill concerning additional benefits for merchant seamen? There was a discussion as to extending workmen's compensation to the merchant seamen, I grant you, but there was no discussion such as we heard in the house last night and again today concerning extensions. What has brought this on? There is an organized campaign by a certain group in favour of additional benefits. I have no quarrel with that. They are entitled to make all the representations they want provided they present the facts accurately. Unfortunately the facts have not been presented accurately, and until recently the story had not been told of the benefits Canada had given to her merchant seamen. I say that now in the dying days of the session there is an organized attempt to extend benefits and to allege that absolutely nothing or very little has been done for the men of the merchant navy.


You had us ruled out of order months ago.


Since 1946 over and above what was mentioned by the Minister o>
Veterans Affairs these additional benefits were granted:	unemployment insurance, out-ofwork benefits, vocational training in their calling, and the act granting workmen's compensation. I think this country has done pretty well in assisting these men. And now a motion is made, that this bill be sent back to the committee, with certain instructions. In the face of the benefits granted to the merchant seamen I do not think it can be said that Canada has treated her men of the merchant navy shamefully or has left them out in the cold. I only wish that other countries had done as much for men of the merchant navy as the Dominion of Canada has done. In view of that I submit the house should reject the amendment and adopt the motion.
Right Hon. W. L. MACKENZIE KING
(Prime Minister): Mr. Speaker, I have hesitated to say anything about this amendment up to this moment, believing it would be to the advantage of the house to hear the arguments which might be presented from both sides as to giving additional consideration to the position of merchant seamen at this time. I have, in listening, been impressed by remarks made by two hon. members which would indicate that, in their minds at least, there may be some doubt whether this amendment is in order. I refer, first, to the hon. member for Churchill (Mr. Moore), who at the time he was speaking said there was nothing in the amendment which would involve any additional imposition of taxes. In that, I disagree with him entirely. It is not to be expected that we are going to be able to assist in a substantial way the merchant seamen without an additional outlay of public money. I would point out to hon. members that the bill it is now sought to amend was introduced by a resolution because it involved an expenditure of public money. It has passed the second reading and committee of the whole. The principle of reference to the armed forces has been adopted. If we are to deal with merchant seamen at this time, I submit that will require, in the first instance, a resolution, and a recommendation from the crown, and, later, a bill based on the resolution. That is the point which I would raise at once. The amendment is not in order because it does involve a contingent additional impost on the public which was not contemplated when the crown

Civil Service Act

recommended that only certain expenditures be made under the bill to amend the Civil Service Act.
The hon. member for Royal (Mr. Brooks) was the other hon. member whom I had in mind. I sympathize very strongly with many of the arguments he put forward, but he made one statement which, at the time he made it, I thought was incorrect. He said, we can do so and so in this bill. He will remember saying that we could amend this bill so as to assist the merchant seamen.


I did not intend that, if I said it. What I meant was that we could assist them by extending the civil service preference, which, to my mind, would not increase the expenditures in any way. It would have to be done in other ways.


My point is that we have a certain bill before us at the present time. My hon. friend admits the truth of what I am saying, that we have a bill before us which is before the house for third reading. That bill has gone through the committee stage. The committee had power to do certain things under the general powers of the committee of the whole. It did not exercise those powers to the extent that some hon. members at this moment would like to have them exercised. I submit that the bill cannot be dealt with as suggested. The amendment is to the effect that the bill be referred back to the committee with certain instructions. I contend that that is out of order, and I shall give my hon. friend the reasons for so contending. I would quote first of all Beauchesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms, third edition, 1943, citation 407:
An instruction is a motion empowering a committee to do something which it could not otherwise do, or to direct it to do something which it might otherwise not do. It directs the order and course of the committee's proceedings and extends or restricts the order of reference according to the discretion of the house. If the subject-matter of an instruction is within the scope of the question referred to the committee then such instruction is useless and irregular. Committees, in case of doubt, may ask instructions from the house as bo the course they should take with reference to the matters under their consideration.
Surely that is as clear as language can make it that when the bill was in committee of the whole the committee had full powers to do what the instruction purports to ask. The committee would be instructed at this stage to do something which it has already considered, and had power to do at the time. May I-


Will the Prime Minister permit a question?


Just a moment, please; I should like to complete the citation. I now turn to Bourinot's Parliamentary Procedure at page 513:
Considerable misapprehension appears to exist as to the meaning of an instruction. An instruction is given to a committee to confer on it that power which, without such instruction, it would not have. If the subject-matter of an instruction is relevant to the subject-matter and within the scope and title of a bill, then such instruction is irregular since the committee had the power to make the required amendment.
I need not cite the cases that are set forth in Bourinot. It is perfectly obvious that the facts are as I have stated them. But let me say this, listening to the hon. members presenting the arguments which they have, and knowing the point of view from which this matter was considered by the government, I would say that it would be a misfortune if we were in any way to divide on this question at this time, and that the proper way to proceed would be to have the position of the merchant seamen further considered at another session of parliament. I will undertake to say that I would advocate that that course should be taken before a special committee in the light of what has been said here this afternoon. But I do say that we would only be prejudicing the case of the merchant seamen were we to seek to amend a measure in a manner which is contrary to the rules- of the house. There is more that I might add, but I think what I have said is sufficient to cover the point at issue.


Mr. Speaker, I am not rising now to deal with the merits of this amendment. If I were I would argue in support of it. I am rising only to deal briefly with the point raised by the Prime Minister, namely, that this amendment is out of order. I will deal with only one feature of it. I think every hon. member recognizes that if a private member brings forward a proposal which would increase the tax burden on the people or lessen the tax revenue of the government it would be out of order. As I understand this amendment, it proposes not a greater expenditure by the government on the -merchant seamen but only that they be given preference in appointments to the civil service. If that is correct, it means no additional expenditure by the government of Canada, and from that point of view I submit, Mr. Speaker, that the amendment is in order.


Would it not be possible for the government to make a survey of this question? If it is too late to

Civil Service Act
do it now, it could be done next year, and make it retroactive. I do not want to see the country charged with acting the part of the deadbeat, but these men who helped to save us in the battle of the Atlantic and on the great lakes should be given a preference. In the marine city from which I come we have large numbers of these men, some of whom are almost in destitute circumstances.


Mr. Speaker, I wish to say a few words on the point of order raised by the Prime Minister-


A great authority.


I thought I would-


Give us a better one.


There are many on this side of the house but they are not as loquacious.


I submit that any hon. member has the right to fall back on the rules of the house without- being subjected to sniping from the other side. I ask, Mr. Speaker, your consideration first of all of citations 112 and 113 of Beauehesne's Parliamentary Rules and Forms, third edition. Citation 112 reads as follows:
A point of order against procedure must be raised promptly and before the question has passed to a stage at which the objection would be out of place.
I submit that for the Prime Minister to let the debate go on for over an hour, during which time three cabinet ministers took part, and then to raise a point of order, is contrary to citation 112. I would ask Your Honour to consider citation 113, which reads:
The Speaker decides questions of order only when they actually arise and not in anticipation. He is bound to call attention immediately to an irregularity in debate or procedure and not to wait for the interposition of a member.
I submit that if in Your Honour's opinion there was anything irregular about this motion it should have been pointed out immediately, and that you would be violating citation 113 if you acted now after the interposition of the Prime Minister.
With regard to motions for instructions, I would point out that citation 708 gives the authority for a motion of this kind. It reads:
When a bill comes up for a third reading a member may move that it be not now read a third time but that it be referred back to the committee of the whole for the purpose of amending it in any particular.
That is what the motion now before the house does.
The Prime Minister read from citation 407 to suggest objection to this measure, but he 83166-333J
should have gone on and read citation 408 which gives the general principles regarding instructions. There are three laid down and I shall read all of them. They are as follows:
First, an instruction must empower the committee to do something which the committee is not otherwise empowered to do. Secondly, the purpose of the instruction must be supplementary and ancillary to the purpose of the bill, and must fall within the general scope and framework of the bill.
That is what this instruction does. It proposes something supplementary and ancillary and at the same time within the general framework and scope of the bill.


Not supplementary and ancillary, I respectfully submit. It is contrary.


By no means. The general provisions of the bill call for extending the civil service preference to veterans. The proposal of the amendment is that the term "veterans" be extended to include those who served in the merchant marine. I submit that this is supplementary and ancillary.


One is civil and the other military.


That is right. .


That is where you are all wet.


I hope that language is on the record.


I hope it is. It will be on the platform too.


I would ask hon. members not to interrupt- the hon. gentleman who has the floor.


In view of the interruptions that have been made I feel that I should call the attention of the 'house to the fact that in Beauehesne's Parliamentary Rules and' Forms, third edition, it is stated:
The principles that lie at the base of English' parliamentary law, as Bourinot so aptly saysr are to protect the minority and restrain the improvidence or tyranny of the majority.
I submit that the minority in this house has a right as well. On the point of order that the Prime Minister raised with regard to the fact that a resolution preceded this bill, a resolution which had the royal recommendation, on the basis of which he contended that this was a money bill, may I point out that the reason there had to be a resolution with the royal recommendation preceding this bill was that one of the provisions in the bill was for increasing the salaries of the civil service commission.
Civil Service Act

But so far as the veterans preference is concerned, no expenditure is involved. Even if that were the case, I submit that citation 486 is quite clear:
The committee is not bound by the terms of provisions which ministers have inserted in the bill, and when no amount has been mentioned in the resolution-
That is the case here.
-any member may propose to increase the grants specified in the bill or to extend the application of the provisions of the bill, whatever may be the cost resulting therefrom, so long as the power conferred .by the royal recommendation is not exceeded.
I submit that on every count this amendment is clearly in order, and that some day in this House of Commons the rules should be used to protect the rights of the minority; in other words, that the rules that are permissive in character should be respected as well as the rules that- are prohibitive.


The question before the house is the third reading of Bill No. 413, an act to amend the Civil Service Act. We have before the house now an amendment moved by Mr. Bentley, seconded by Mr. Green, which reads:
That Bill No. 413 be not now read a third time, but that it be referred back to the committee of the whole with instructions-
It is not written, "for the purpose", but "with instructions".
-to amend the said bill so as to extend to merchant seamen the provisions accorded to veterans in the said bill.
The point of order has been raised that this amendment is out of order because it imposes upon the crown an expenditure. The hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre (Mr. Knowles), both today and a few days ago, has left with the house the impression that, in certain cases it is the .privilege of any member, by means of an amendment, to impose expenditures upon the government. I would like to draw the attention of the house to a book entitled The Law and Custom of The Constitution, by Anson, from which I quote, at page 268:
Money only granted on recommendation of the crown.
I believe it is important to read this to the house in view of what was said the other day in moving an amendment to the old age pension bill, and what has been said again today by the hon. member for Winnipeg North Centre:
The responsible advisers of the crown, the ministers of state, are alone capable of proposing that public money should be raised, or if already raised should be spent; and the house would not
IMr. Knowles.]
entertain a motion by a private member for a specific outlay on any object which he might consider deserving of public support. The relations of crown, lords and commons in respect of money grants cannot be better stated than in the words of Sir Erskine May.
The crown demands money, the commons grant it, and the lords assent to the grant; but the commons do not vote money unless it be required by the crown; nor impose or augment taxes, unless they be necessary for the public service as declared by the crown through its constitutional advisers. No private member may propose specific grant.
It is possible for any member of the House of Commons to move a resolution to the effect that public money might profitably be expended upon purposes specified in the resolution; and if the house agree to the motion it thereby commits itself to a general approval of such an outlay. But it would not be in accordance with the rules of the house for a private member to move that a specific sum be granted for a specific purpose; such a motion could only proceed from a minister of the crown. For it cannot be too strongly impressed upon the student of constitutional law, that all the money spent for the public service is spent by the crown; that all the money granted for the public service is granted by the commons, and that the commons have imposed upon themselves a rule that they will not grant a penny unless it is asked for by a minister representing the crown for a purpose specified in the terms of his request.
Such a rule is the great safeguard of the taxpayer against the casual benevolence of a house wrought upon by the eloquence of a private member; against a scramble for public money among unscrupulous politicians bidding against one another for the favour of a democracy.
The amendment proposes that the bill be referred back to the committee of the whole with instructions to amend the said bill so as to extend to merchant seamen the provisions accorded to veterans. The Prime Minister called the attention of the house to 407 of Beauchesne, third edition, which I be