I rise on a question of privilege, Mr. Speaker. It is a pleasure to announce that Mr. H. M. Guillat, a farmer in the North Battleford district, was crowned international crested wheat grass king at the international grain and hay show recently held at Chicago.
Mr. Guillat has been recognized as a progressive farmer for many years, and has won high honours previously in various shows, both in the district and farther afield.


On a
question of privilege, Mr. Speaker, yesterday's Votes and Proceedings No. 60 contains what I believe is a serious mistake on page 345. Among the items of estimates reported to have been adopted in the committee of supply is No. 934, an item which reads in part:
Loans to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation repayable with interest-to cover capital costs of television installations and to support the development of the service, $4,500,000.
I believe that is a mistake in Votes and Proceedings, because I certainly did not hear that item called. I was following the proceedings closely, and it was just at eleven o'clock. I have asked my colleagues around me if they heard the item called, and they did not hear it.


Order. The hon. gentleman has stated his question of privilege, and it occurs to me he might bring up the matter when the house is in committee of supply.


Mr. Speaker, for a great number of
years there has been a regular steamship service between Yarmouth, Nova Scotia, and a point in the eastern United States, providing an essential transportation link between the southern part of Nova Scotia and the northeastern United States. Recent announcements indicate the possibility of abandonment of this service and the company operating such service can no longer give any assurance that it will be continued.
This situation has caused considerable concern both to the federal government and the government of the province of Nova Scotia. If Nova Scotia is deprived of direct water communication with the east coast of the United States it will cause considerable damage to her economy especially in relation to the tourist trade which brings in to Nova Scotia annually many thousands of dollars.
At the present time the S.S. Yarmouth operates between Yarmouth and Boston during the summer months making three trips per week. She is a vessel of 5,000 gross tons, with capacity for 500 passengers, 800 tons of freight, and 45 automobiles. It is felt that if this vessel is going to discontinue the service, some method should be found to increase the number of tourist cars which may be carried to Nova Scotia during the summer season. Both governments likewise feel that the situation cannot be left in a state of uncertainty, and that the tourist traffic into Nova Scotia should not only be maintained but increased.
I am therefore pleased to announce that it has been decided to build a vessel which will not only be adequate to carry the present traffic but which will serve to increase the tourist trade between Nova Scotia and the United States. The proposed vessel will be a fast modern car ferry with a capacity for about 200 cars and about 1,000 passengers. The service will be based on Yarmouth, and will operate between that port and a port in the eastern United States. Being a modern vessel it will offer facilities considerably better than those now available at a much cheaper cost to tourists and more in line with present and anticipated needs.
Officials of both governments are actively engaged on the project and plans are now under way for the design and construction of the ferry in a Canadian shipyard at an estimated cost of $3 million. The federal government and the province of Nova Scotia

Steamship Services
will share equally in this cost, the share of Nova Scotia being limited to not more than $1,500,000.
It is expected that construction of the vessel will be completed in time for the 1951 tourist season.


May I ask whether any consideration has been given to the service between Saint John and Boston, which was operated for many years but has been discontinued?


This statement of course deals with one thing only. The matter to which my hon. friend refers will be given consideration in due course.


I should like to ask the minister if he will give the same consideration to the car ferry service between Rochester and Cobourg.


Order. I would call the hon. member's attention to the fact that this statement is not debatable. Questions directly relating to it are allowed, but I would ask hon. members to make their questions brief and relevant.


May I ask the
minister whether any provision is being made for service between Nova Scotia and Maine for the season of 1950? I would also ask him whether consideration is being given to renewal of the direct service from New York to Nova Scotia.


Order. I cannot allow questions of that kind.


May we have an answer to the first question, whether any provision is being made for the 1950 service?


I think that question should be answered, Mr. Speaker. The maritime commission is now in consultation with the present operators, and it is hoped that provision will be made for operation during the 1950 season.


The minister mentioned 200 cars. Did he mean automobiles, or railway cars?


It is obvious that this is not a railway car ferry, but a passenger and automobile car ferry.


It should be.


One other question, if you will permit it, Mr. Speaker. Who will operate this service? Will it be operated by the Canadian National Railways or by the respective governments?


That matter has not yet been decided. It is being considered at the moment.
(Mr. Chevrier.]


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
1.	Have the railway companies granted a special freight rate lower than the general tariff in the movement of purebred livestock and the movement of livestock to fairs and exhibitions?
2.	If so, what was the relationship between the said special rate and the regular tariff rates?
3.	Does the federal government contribute to the freight cost of shipping (a) purebred livestock; (b) livestock moving to fairs and exhibitions?
4.	If so, on what basis and to what extent?
5.	Has notice been given to the effect that the railways are urging the discontinuance of the said special rate on the movement of (a) registered livestock; (b) livestock moving to fairs and exhibitions?
6.	Has any department of government taken any steps towards retaining the special freight rate on the movement of (a) registered livestock; (b) livestock to fairs and exhibitions?
7.	If so, what actions were taken?


1.	Yes.
2.	There is no uniform relationship between the so-called special rates and the regular tariff rates. To answer this question more precisely it would be necessary to know the number and kind of animals involved, and the points between which they are moving. It would then entail some considerable time to work out the relationship between the regular rate and the special rate.
In general, however, the following applies:
A.	Purebred livestock: (1) Within western Canada-one half regular tariff rates subject to certain exceptions. (2) Within eastern Canada-one half standard mileage tariff rates, less carload only. (3) Between western and eastern Canada-approximately one half regular tariff rates on carloads, and one half first class rate, minimum weight 6,000 pounds per shipment for less carload.
B.	Exhibition livestock: Where the movement to one exhibition and return is involved in western Canada, the full tariff rate to the exhibition point is charged and the return movement is free. Within Ontario and Quebec the going and returning rate is 60 per cent of the regular rate. Between eastern and western Canada the western basis applies. Where more than one exhibition is involved, the over-all rates from the original shipping point back to the same point are adjusted by reductions of from 40 to 50 per cent.
3.	(a) No. (b) Yes, to the Royal Agricultural winter fair only.
4.	Each provincial government, excepting Ontario, pays the freight on livestock moving from the province to the Royal Agricultural

winter fair. The Department of Agriculture of Canada reimburses the provinces to the extent of 75 per cent of the freight paid. The amount of this expenditure is approximately $10,000 per year.
5.	(a) Yes. The tariffs applicable were cancelled June 1, 1949, upon full statutory notice.
(b)	Yes. The tariffs applicable are to expire December 31, 1949, unless sooner cancelled, changed or extended.
6 and 7. Yes. Officers of the Department of Agriculture have assisted livestock associations in preparing briefs which were submitted to the railway companies by breed associations. The Minister of Agriculture has written the presidents of both railway companies supporting the representations of the breed associations.


1.	Has the Department of Mines and Resources a record of convictions for violation of the Migratory Birds Convention Act for the nine months ending September 30, 1949?
2.	If so, what is the total number of convictions and what amount was collected in fines?


1.	Yes.
2.	Thirty-five convictions, and the amount of $420 collected in fines.


1.	Has the staff of the library of parliament been increased during the present session?
2.	If so. by how many persons?
3.	What are the (a) names; (b) places of birth;
(c)	salaries of the said employees?


1.	No.
2.	Answered by No. 1.
3.	Answered by No. 1.


How many tons of coal have been shipped to eastern Canada from what is known as the High-wood area, lying southwest of Calgary, during 1947, 1948 and as late in 1949, as records show?


In 1947 there were no shipments of coal to eastern Canada from the Highwood area in Alberta. In 1948 and 1949 one company in this area made shipments to Ontario.
Since only one company is involved, the tonnage figures cannot be released, in accordance with the Statistics Act.
Questions


1.	Have any employees of the national film board been engaged, as such, in activities in the United States?
2.	If so, where?
3.	What was the nature of the assignment or assignments?
4.	On whose request were the activities undertaken?


The question in the form in which it appears on the order paper is quite general, and I doubt whether it would be possible to give the hon. member information that would be of value to him. I have discussed the matter	with	him,	and
I understand that he has agreed to drop the question in this form, on the understanding that if he reframes it in a more specific way, I shall be pleased to try to answer it.


Dropped.


I	can
reframe the question now, Mr. Speaker, and the minister may answer it later if he cannot do so immediately. Have employees of the national film board been in the United States recently for the purpose of making films of atomic energy plants or installations?


The answer	is	that
employees of the film board have been filming work in the United States recently on radioactive isotopes for use in connection with cancer research. The work was done jointly at the request of the Department of National Health and Welfare, in Canada, and, as I understand it, in the United States by the Medical Film Institute, which is an agent for the American Association of Medical Colleges.
BOARD OF TRANSPORT COMMISSIONERS Mr. Kirk (Anligonish-Guysborough):
1.	How many members are there on the board of transport commissioners?
2.	What are their names, present and former addresses?
3.	Who is the chairman?
4.	By whom are they appointed?
5.	For how long are they appointed?
6.	What are their respective salaries, or remuneration, and expense allowances?
7.	Are there any vacancies at present?


1.	Six.
2.	Hon. Mr. Justice Archibald, at present, Ottawa, Ont.; formerly, Halifax, N.S.; Hugh Wardrope, at present, Ottawa, Ont.; formerly, Hamilton, Ont.; A. Sylvestre, K.C., at present, Ottawa, Ont.; formerly, Chicoutimi, Que.; F. M. MacPherson, at present,

Questions
Ottawa, Ont.; formerly, Cranbrook, B.C.;
H.	B. Chase, C.B.E., at present, Ottawa, Ont.; formerly, Montreal, Que.; W. J. Patterson, at present, Ottawa, Ont.; formerly, Regina, Sask.
3.	Hon. Mr. Justice M. B. Archibald, chief commissioner.
4.	Governor general in council.
5.	Statutory period of ten years.
6.	Chief commissioner, $15,000 ($3,000 by the board; $12,000 by Department of Justice); assistant chief commissioner, $12,000; deputy chief commissioner, $10,000; commissioners, $10,000 each and expenses as authorized by treasury board.
7.	No.


1.	How many members are there on the board of the Canadian maritime commission?
2.	What are their names, present and former addresses?
3.	Who is the chairman?
4.	By whom are they appointed and what was the date of appointment of each member?
5.	For how long are they appointed?
6.	What are their respective salaries, or remuneration and expense allowances?
7.	Are there any vacancies at present?


1.	Three.
2.	J. V. Clyne, 445 Queen street, Ottawa, Ont.; 3738 Angus drive, Vancouver, B.C. L. C. Audette, 226 MacLaren street, Ottawa, Ont. Angus McGugan, 331 MacLaren street, Ottawa, Ont.; 6881 Monkland avenue, Montreal, P.Q.
3.	J. V. Clyne.
4.	Governor in council. J. V. Clyne, November 1, 1947; L. C. Audette, November
I,	1947; Angus McGugan, July 15, 1948.
5.	J. V. Clyne, five years; L. C. Audette, four years; Angus McGugan, for the unexpired term of his predecessor, H. J. Rahlves (resigned), which was for three years from November 1, 1947.
6.	J. V. Clyne, $12,000 per annum, and expenses as authorized by treasury board; L. C. Audette, $10,000 per annum, and expenses as authorized by treasury board; Angus McGugan, $10,000 per annum, and expenses as authorized by treasury board.
7.	No.


1.	How many Canadian National Railways directors are there?
2.	Are they regional appointments?
3.	What is the name, present and former address of each?
4.	Who is the chairman?

5.	By whom are they appointed and what is the date of each appointment?
6.	For how long is each appointed?
7.	What is the salary or remuneration and expense allowance of each?
8.	Are there any vacancies at present?


1.	Seven.
2.	No.
3.	R. C. Vaughan, present address, Montreal, P.Q.; former address, Montreal, P.Q. (Mr. Vaughan will be succeeded by Mr. Donald Gordon whose appointment as a director and chairman of the board commences January 1, 1950). R. B. Brenan, present address, Saint John, N.B.; former address, Saint John, N.B. B. L. Daly, present address, Montreal, P.Q.; former address, Winnipeg, Man. W. J. T. Gagnon, present address, Montreal, P.Q.; former address, Montreal, P.Q. J. A. Northey, present address, Toronto, Ont.; former address, Toronto, Ont. W. J. Parker, present address, Winnipeg, Man.; former address, Winnipeg, Man. H. J. Symington, present address, Montreal, P.Q.; former address, Montreal, P.Q.
4.	Mr. R. C. Vaughan is the chairman and will be succeeded by Mr. Donald Gordon on January 1, 1950.
5.	The directors are appointed by the governor in council. The date of each appointment is as follows: R. C. Vaughan, October 1, 1945; R. B. Brenan, October 1, 1949; B. L. Daly, October 1, 1947; W. J. T. Gagnon, October 1, 1948; J. A. Northey, October 1, 1948; W. J. Parker, November 1, 1949; H. J. Symington, October 1, 1947.
6.	Three years.
7.	$5,000 per annum, and out-of-pocket expenses.
8.	No.


1.	How many members are on the international joint commission?
2.	What are their names, present and former addresses?
3.	Who is the chairman?
4.	What are the salaries or remuneration and expense allowances of (a) the chairman; (b) other members?
5.	For how long is each appointed and on what date was each appointment?
6.	By whom are they appointed?
7.	Are there any vacancies at present?


1. The international joint commission comprises two sections, the United States section and the Canadian section. Each section comprises three members. The answers which follow refer to the Canadian section of the international joint commission.

2.	The Hon. J. Allison Glen of Ottawa, formerly of Russell, Manitoba; Mr. George Spence of Regina.
3.	The Hon. J. Allison Glen.
4.	(a) Salary: $7,500 per annum; allowances granted to cover expenses incurred in the course of duty as commissioner; (b) Salary: $7,500 per annum; allowances granted to cover expenses incurred in the course of duty as commissioners.
5.	The chairman and members are appointed during pleasure; the Hon. Mr. Glen was appointed on December 23, 1948; Mr. George Spence was appointed on October 1, 1947.
6.	By the governor in council upon the advice of the Prime Minister.
7.	Yes, one.


What is the number of unemployed registered at each unemployment office in the provinces of Nova Scotia and New Brunswick?


Local office	Total	Male	Female
Nova Scotia			
Amherst	. 430	343	87Bridgewater . . .	. 487	451	36Halifax	. 4,089	3,244	845Kentville 	. 679	549	130Liverpool 	. 316	293	23New Glasgow ..	. 1,248	1,076	172Springhill	. 203	179	24*Sydney 	. 2,527	1,964	563Truro 	. 567	442	125Yarmouth 	. 1,079	900	179New Brunswick	Bathurst 	. 787	713	74Campbellton ...	. 691	590	101Edmundston . . .	. 752	661	91Fredericton . .. .	. 751	542	209Minto 	. 318	269	49Moncton 	. 2,246	1,577	669Newcastle 	. 916	790	126Saint John	. 3,118	2,570	548Woodstock	. 341	290	51St. Stephen .. . .	. 813	497	316Sussex 	. 203	185	18^Including branch offices. MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENTS ASSISTANCE ACT


1.	Is the Municipal Improvements Assistance Act still in operation?
2.	If not. when was it suspended and by what authority?
3.	If the act has been suspended, has the government given any consideration to the reopening of the act? If so, when can an announcement be expected?
Questions
4.	How many municipalities in Alberta have been assisted under this act during each of the years since its operation?
5.	What was the amount of assistance to each municipality?


1	and 2. The Municipal Improvements Assistance Act was passed as an unemployment relief measure during the depression of the thirties when the fact that unemployment was so widespread and severe as to partake of the nature of a national emergency was felt to justify the government of Canada making loans on a subsidized basis to finance strictly municipal projects. As the primary aim was to relieve unemployment, one section of the legislation provided that the governor in council "may at any time fix and determine a date after which no loans shall be made to any municipality under this act". As unemployment lessened and tended to disappear following the outbreak of war, operations under the act ceased and no loans under it have since been made.
3.	It is not the practice to announce government policy in answers to questions.
4 and 5. Edmonton, $228,878.85; Lethbridge, $100,000; Calgary, $225,000; Claresholm municipal hospital district, $28,000; Drumheller, $8,376; Grande Prairie, $100,000; Hanna, $100,000; Red Deer hospital district $55,000; Stettler, $7,000; Vegreville, $10,000; Wetas-kiwin, $26,000.


1.	What amounts were loaned by the Industrial Development Bank to industry in the various provinces of Canada?
2.	What were the number of applications for loans, with the amounts involved, according to provinces?
3.	How many were granted and how many were refused?


1. From November 1, 1944, to September 30, 1948, gross amount of loans, investments and guarantees authorized (less cancellations and reductions in amounts authorized):
Prince Edward Island, $39,000; Nova Scotia, $681,900; New Brunswick, $823,500; Quebec, $11,733,250; Ontario, $11,676,664; Manitoba, $1,508,684; Saskatchewan, $268,800; Alberta, $2,251,864; British Columbia and Territories, $4,357,612.
2	and 3. Details of applications by provinces are not of government record. For Canada as a whole, the information is as follows:
From November 1, 1944, to September 30, 1948, applications received, 1,640; applications granted, 586; applications refused, 519;

Orders for Returns
applications withdrawn, 535. Amounts relating to the above applications not of government record, except as to applications granted which totalled (before cancellations and reductions) $39,027,624.


1.	How many civil service employees of the Department of Mines and Resources, immigration branch, have been, or are being moved to Toronto and Montreal, during the next several months?
2.	Of these, how many (a) are veterans; (b) are married; (c) are permanent civil servants; (d) since being posted have applied for transfer; (e) transfers have been granted; (f) who applied for transfer, have been discharged; (g) are home owners?
3.	Have any of these persons homes under the Veterans Land Act?
4.	If so, are their interests being protected, and in what way?


Return tabled.


1.	Have requests been made for marine services, such as wharves, slipways and breakwaters, in the province of Newfoundland?
2.	If so, by whom and on what dates?
3.	For what locations?


1.	Was a vacancy created by the recent promotion of Mr. Nelson Castonguay to the position of chief electoral officer?
2.	Was the position of assistant chief electoral officer advertised?
3.	If so, when and how?
4.	How many applications were received?
5.	What were the names and addresses of the applicants?
6.	What were the marks or ratings received in each case?
7.	Who makes the appointment?
8.	For how long is the appointment?
9.	What is the salary or remuneration and expense allowance?
10.	If appointment has already been made, who received same?


Return tabled.


1.	What are the names and addresses of all persons employed under the Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act in Saskatchewan during the year 1948?
2.	What sum of money was paid to each person as (a) salary or wages; (b) sustenance; (c) mileage; (d) other allowances?
3.	At what rate are (a) salaries or wages; (b) sustenance; (c) mileage; (d) other allowances paid to common labour, foremen, all other employees, under this act?


1.	What are the names and addresses of all persons employed at any time during 1949, as foremen, on Prairie Farm Rehabilitation Act projects in Saskatchewan?
2.	What amount of wages or salary has been paid to each of these persons during 1949?
3.	Have any of the persons named in reply to question No. 1 received any other payments out of government funds, in addition to their salary or wages on the above-noted projects during 1949? If so, what is the nature of such other payments?


On the orders of the day;
Does the Secretary of State for External Affairs care to make a statement on the power development on the Niagara river and the St. Lawrence river?


I am in a position, Mr. Speaker, to make a short statement at this time concerning the use of water from the Niagara river for the generation of hydroelectric power. At the suggestion of the United States government a group of Canadian experts are going to Washington to explore in an informal way with their opposite numbers there the possibility of amending article V of the Boundary Waters treaty of 1909 with respect to the use of water from the Niagara river for power generation. At the same time, they will consider how the scenic beauty of Niagara falls and river can best be protected and enhanced. These informal talks will begin tomorrow, December 8.
I am happy to be able to state that the Canadian party will include, in addition to federal officials, representatives of the Hydro Electric Power Commission of Ontario, headed by Mr. Robert H. Saunders, chairman of the commission, and the Hon. Charles Daley, chairman of the Niagara parks commission.
Article V of the Boundary Waters treaty of 1909 authorized a diversion above Niagara falls of 56,000 cubic feet of water per second to be divided between the United States and Canada. Additional diversions for both countries were authorized on a temporary basis during the recent war. These temporary authorizations need to be replaced by some permanent arrangement so that new power plants may be built in Ontario and New York state. These would replace a number of inefficient plants which are now in use.
In 1926 a special international Niagara

board was set up by Canada and the United States to study the question of the preservation of the Niagara falls and river and to consider what remedial works might be needed to enhance their natural beauty. The board, in its final report, issued in 1929, made a number of recommendations, some of which have not yet been acted upon. The informal talks in Washington will provide an opportunity for consideration of any recommendations of the board which are still outstanding.
I have also been asked to say something about the joint use by Canada and the United States of the potential hydroelectric power resources of the international section of the St. Lawrence river. The most satisfactory and economical solution would be attained through ratification by the United States and Canada of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence basin agreement of 1941, which provided for the development of that section of the St. Lawrence for navigation as well as power. In the review of external affairs which I gave the house on November 16, I mentioned some of the many mutual interests which Canada and the United States have in this great project. Because of these mutual interests, I ventured to express the hope that the United States congress would be able to take action with regard to ratification of this agreement without much further delay. That is still our hope. However, if we cannot get .implementation of this agreement for the double-barrelled purpose of navigation and power, the value of the power is so great that we shall have to give very serious consideration to abandoning the navigation and starting on the power side alone.


May I ask the minister a [DOT]question? In view of his statement on power in the St. Lawrence and Niagara rivers, which means automatically that blackouts are coming in Ontario and in other places, how are we going to settle these matters on the seven seas if we cannot settle a domestic matter such as this with a friendly nation?


On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. The press of this morning carries a dispatch from Washington indicating that some representations had been made to the government with respect to Colonial Air Lines. Can the minister enlighten the house on this matter?
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I am in a position to say something about this matter. It is true, as press dispatches indicate, that yesterday afternoon the United States ambassador left with me a note in which reference was made first to the show-cause order dated December 1, 1949, and served on the Colonial Air Lines by the Canadian air transport board; and second, to the delay surrounding Trans-Canada Air Lines application to the United States civil aeronautics board to operate the route between Montreal and New York.
In this note the government of the United States proposes discussions between representatives of our two governments, aimed at resolving the present difficulties. The Canadian government, which has not yet had an opportunity to reply formally to the note, will of course be quite willing to participate in any such discussions. The United States state department is aware that we have at all times been prepared to have intergovernmental discussions on these matters, and, in fact, discussions between officials of the two governments have been taking place recently. I personally am satisfied that in this matter the Canadian government has done everything possible to resolve the situation reasonably and fairly.
I wish to make it quite clear, Mr. Speaker, that these proposed discussions, which we shall be happy to enter into, will not in any way prejudice proceedings before the air transport board, nor prevent the board from proceeding with the hearing scheduled for December 12 next, when Colonial Air Lines will be required to show cause why the air transport board should not suspend the licence which was issued to that air line to operate the Montreal-New York route. This hearing, which will begin next Monday, is an administrative procedure within the regulations under which the air transport board operates, and will be proceeded with.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. Will the government give consideration to proclaiming a day to be known in Canada as United Nations human rights day?


The government will of course give
2836	HOUSE OF
Inquiries of . the Ministry consideration to the matter suggested, but I should not like to forecast the result of that consideration.


May I ask
a supplementary question? If the answer is in the affirmative, will the town of Dresden, Ontario, be informed of the decision?


I assume that if and when the decision is reached it will be publicized in such a way that all those interested may be informed of it.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question of the Prime Minister? It refers to the speeches made by the Minister of Trade and Commerce (Mr. Howe) at New York last night and the one made at Brantford last Monday night by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Gardiner). Do these two speeches taken together represent government policy, and does it mean the end of preferential trade?


Mr. Speaker, I am afraid the hon. member will have to read the speeches and draw his own conclusions as to what they mean.


That is not necessary. It means the end of both. May I say to the Prime Minister that I have no conclusions to draw except that you are hanging preferential trade on the sour apple tree alongside John Brown's body.


I have never attempted to nang anything on sour apple trees.


?EDERAL GRANTS IN LIEU OF MUNICIPAL TAXES
On the orders of the day:
I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Finance. In view of the supplementary estimates tabled yesterday, will a revision of dominion-owned properties in various municipalities be allowed, in the light of the statement as to the possibility of collecting taxes from these properties?


I am afraid I am not too clear as to just what my hon. friend's question means, or the information that it is intended to elicit. On November 14 I made a comprehensive statement as to the government's policy with respect to grants in aid to municipalities. When the item in question is called I shall


be glad to answer any supplementary questions that may be put to me. Perhaps I am a little dense, but I do not quite understand my hon. friend's question.


Because of the fact that taxes were not collectable, assessors in various municipalities have neglected to determine assessment value.


The grants will not be based upon assessments made by local assessors. As I indicated in my statement, the grants will be made on the basis of assessments which the government itself determines, as is done in all other countries that follow practices of this kind.


the second reading of and concurrence in amendments made by the Senate to Bill No. 63, respecting the inspection of fish and marine plants.


Motion agreed to, amendments read the second time and concurred in.
The house in committee of supply, Mr. Beaudoin in the chair.
On a question of privilege, sir, Votes and Proceedings of yesterday, No. 60, as published, contain at page 345 what I say is an error. Among the items said to have been passed at last night's session of this committee this one appears under the heading "Loans and investments":
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
934. Loans to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation ... to cover capital costs of television installation and to support the development of the service . . . , $4,500,000.
Sir, my submission is that this is a mistake, because the item was not called. I have asked my colleagues around if they heard it called, and those to whom I have spoken agree with me that certainly the item was not called in their hearing.
Hansard has come to hand, and Hansard for yesterday, at pages 2826 and 2827, contains the report of a discussion on the last item, No. 306. At the conclusion of the discussion Hansard reads, "Item agreed to. Progress reported." There is no reference to the calling of this very large and important item, No. 934.
At page 2828 of Hansard, among the resolutions said to have been passed in committee, and reported, is this item, No. 934. But there is no statement in the text of Hansard as to that item being called.

There are a few other reasons that warrant my saying the item was not called. In the first place, we were told on the previous night that the estimates of the Department of National Revenue would be called. Item 934 is not among the estimates of the Department of National Revenue. If hon. members will look at the further supplementary estimates, No. 1, page 10, they will see three supplementary estimates in connection with the Department of National Revenue. On page 27 of that volume of further supplementary estimates they will see item 934- not under the estimates of the Department of National Revenue, but under the heading, "Loans and investments". This follows the previous heading, "Government-owned enterprises-transport".
Last, sir, and I think a complete reason for saying that item 934 was not called, is that the government had agreed not to call it. If hon. members will look at page 2052 of Hansard for March 28 of this year they will see that, following a statement made by the Minister of National Revenue on government policy with respect to television, relating to this particular matter, in which he said that it was government policy to ask for $4 million for the purpose of permitting the development of television by the C.B.C., Hansard records that at the conclusion of that statement I asked the minister this question:
May I ask the minister a question arising out of the statement he has Just read? Will the radio committee-


Order.


I think the hon. member has stated his question fully.


I am just finishing it.


He is now proceeding to make a speech.


No. I just wished to finish this quotation, then I shall be through. It continues:
Will the radio committee have an opportunity of reviewing this policy and reporting to the house before the house is called upon to approve the loan of $4 million?


The answer is definitely yes.
No radio committee has been set up. So I say the government certainly cannot have had any thought of calling that item, because this undertaking has not been fulfilled. Therefore I say that Votes and Proceedings for yesterday are in error, and item 934 should be struck out from page 345.


After looking over the discussion that took place on the items referring to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation-either the item respecting the international service, or item 934, which refers
Supply-C.B.C.
to loans to be made to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation with respect to television -and after reading Hansard, it is quite clear that the discussion on the first item, concerning the international service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, was a general discussion covering all the operations of that corporation.
I knew, and I am sure some hon. members knew as well, that they were out of order in discussing on the first item, which referred to the international service, some of the things they did discuss, such as, for instance, wave lengths. The hon. member for Kenora-Rainy River criticized the C.B.C. because the northern section of Ontario was not served well enough. Then the hon. member for Eglinton spoke at some length about television. If hon. members will refer to page 2823 of Hansard they will see that he devoted perhaps a page to this particular aspect of radio, namely, television.
The hon. member goes on to say, at the close of his remarks:
I am not going further tonight into this whole question of whether the C.B.C. ought to be permitted to continue as both competitor and regulator or. as it has been put in this house before, as judge and policeman as well as a party to the cause before it.
And he concludes by saying:
These questions I have referred to, particularly the matter of television, are much too important to be left in abeyance any longer.
It seems clear to me that the sense of that was that all items pertaining to the C.B.C. were then under discussion; and that the hon. member was taking advantage of the general discussion then taking place to discuss item 934 as well. He is reported to the extent of about half a page on television as it appears in Hansard of yesterday.


Quite true.


And he concludes
by saying:
These questions I have referred to, particularly the matter of television, are much too important to be left in abeyance any longer.
If one reads the speeches which then followed, especially the reply that was made by the hon. member for Rosetown-Biggar to some of the points raised by the hon. member for Eglinton, it will be seen that they have a direct bearing upon the setting up of a committee at the next session to deal with television, the allocation of wave lengths, and the establishment of a station of 50,000 watts in Ontario.
The leader of the opposition himself, at the close of his remarks last night, indicated that the item then under discussion dealt with international short wave, but he indicated

Supply-C.B.C.
that he wanted, as well, to press the matter of setting up a committee at the next session, and concluded his remarks by saying:
We see why it is so necessary that we start a complete examination of the whole activity of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as soon as we meet in the next session.
We were then on the item dealing with the international service. When these items on the international service were permitted to carry I said: "There are three items referring to the C.B.C.", and I called each of them in order, including item 934. I said, "Shall these items carry?" I know some hon. members on the opposition side, as well as some hon. members on the government side said, "carried". I then said: "Shall I report the resolutions?" And it was agreed. It was then three minutes to eleven.
Therefore I believe the point of privilege raised by the hon. member cannot be entertained.


Mr. Chairman, I should hope that before you make that as a final ruling you would be prepared to hear certain observations.


No.


Sit down.


I will not sit down except on order of the Chair at any time in this house.
I suggest it may be wise to give consideration to this item. The discussion had not been confined to the first item. The discussion, it is true, had been general on the first item, and the first item was agreed to as recorded at page 2826 of Hansard. When I rose to discuss the matter further it was pointed out that item 305 had been called, and I then explained that item 306 dealt with the same subject matter, and that I would continue the discussion. We continued the consideration of the second item at that time.
The statement is made that the item was called. Well, it must have been called quickly, and I will state further most emphatically that I did not hear it. If an item under a different heading in the supplementary estimates is called in the committee of supply, it should be pointed out at the time that we are turning from page 10 to page 27, and that the item in the supplementaries appears under another heading. Unless this is done, no member of the committee can keep in his mind what the item is. Suddenly to group items in this way and to call them off quickly while there is a certain amount of crossdiscussion going on in the chamber, without any indication that one of the items is for $4,500,000, and having to do with a most
[The Deputy Chairman.]
important subject-is a procedure under which, I submit, we cannot properly deal with the estimates.
I ask that the government consider the wisdom of consenting to reopen this discussion. Otherwise any suggestion to facilitate procedure becomes an impossibility. There is another time when we can discuss this, namely, on the appropriation bill, and I assure the government that we will discuss it then if this item is not reopened. Undoubtedly there would be a wider discussion on the appropriation bill, and the discussion would thereby be extended.
Without attempting to make a ruling as to what was done, and having regard particularly to the fact that the course indicated now by the chairman is one which could not possibly have given hon. members an opportunity to realize that the item 934 was called, I submit that by consent this item should be reopened, so that it will not be necessary to renew the whole discussion on the appropriation bill.


I had not intended to speak on this subject, either now or when it might come up again on the appropriation bill; therefore I can perhaps be considered as an unbiased advocate. I think the difficulty has arisen through having two or three items called at once. They were called so quickly in order to get through with the estimates of the department that those who were interested were not able to catch the number of the item. As the leader of the opposition has pointed out, the items in question were several pages away from the items that we had been discussing, as well as being under a different heading.
As the leader of the opposition has suggested, I think the matter should be reopened and an opportunity given to those who are interested in the item to discuss it. I suggest that to the chairman and to the government. This is a case where we should use good judgment and not get into an interminable discussion over the point.


On a question of privilege, I should like to say a word or two. I concur in everything that you, Mr. Chairman, have said in explanation. When the estimates which I have to pilot through the committee came up yesterday, I submitted to the chairman the numbers of the items, in the bluebook, in the supplementary estimates, and in the further supplementary estimates, and I distinctly heard you call all the numbers. Following the calling of the numbers, the word "carried" came from the committee. It was unfortunate that just at eleven o'clock

last night this very important item was called and passed and is so recorded in Votes and Proceedings.
I think perhaps the way in which the items are listed is not the best. Items having to do with international short wave, the C.B.C. and others things having to do with broadcasting, are listed under the Department of National Revenue, but they are entirely distinct from the activities of that department. The order in council which gave me the duty of indicating to parliament what has been done with reference to policy and transactions of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and the international short wave system delegates that duty to me personally.
The hon. member for Eglinton is quite right when he says that on March 27 last I indicated to the house the policy with reference to television, and said that there would be an opportunity to discuss the matter before the radio committee. There was a motion on the order paper at that time to set up the radio committee, but as parliament was dissolved on April 30, that item was not reached. I gave that promise in perfectly good faith. During this session there has been no request by the opposition that the committee on radio broadcasting be set up.


On a question of privilege, I asked the Prime Minister whether he would set it up, and he simply passed it off.


Perhaps I should retract and say that there was no motion on the order paper to set up the committee. I have no personal objection to this matter being discussed. I was surprised last night that there was not more discussion, but there certainly was discussion on the matter. The hon. member for Eglinton is reported, both in Hansard and the Montreal Gazette, as having spent a considerable amount of his time in the discussion of television.


Not on this item.


He did not enumerate the item, but he is reported both in the press and in Hansard as having discussed at some length the general question of television. If the hon. member was in error in not knowing the significance of the item as it was called, that is not my business. I brought up the item; it came before the committee and there was a general discussion on the whole matter. The item was called, the item was passed, and the resolution was reported.
As I say, I have no personal objection if the committee wishes to consider this matter further. We will have a clear statement as to what the policy of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation is in the matter of
Supply-C.B.C.
meeting commitments for setting up television, in accordance with government policy. The hon. member for Eglinton was a bit critical last night of the fact that we had not gone ahead with this matter. On what did he base his comment that we were not dealing fairly with private stations which had made application to be licensed to go into television?


Mr. Chairman, this is a speech in regard to what the member did or did not do, but it does not explain whether or not this item was carried. I understood the chairman to say that further supplementary items were called, and there are further supplementary items shown in addition to item 934. Based on the statement just made by the chairman, I think item 934 was not called.


I categorically deny that item 934 was not called. It was called. The chairman says so, and the Clerk says so. As I said, I have no objection to further discussion, but I am not going to be bluffed into the position that the item was not called, because that is not true. If there are other grounds for further discussion it will be on straight business grounds, and not because I am being bluffed by the leader of the opposition. What I say this morning is no more a speech than what you have said. Mr. Leader of the Opposition, and I have just as much right-


Address the Chair.


-to indicate what my position here is as he has. To continue-


I do not propose to be tricked, either.


I ask that the hon. member withdraw that expression. I do not think it is proper for the leader of the opposition to suggest that he is being tricked by the majority in the house.


Mr. Chairman, before you deal with that you will deal with the question whether it is proper to suggest that a serious argument I have made is an attempt to bluff the house?


I have raised a question of privilege, Mr. Chairman, and I ask for your ruling. I request that the expression that the leader of the opposition is being "tricked" by the majority, and by the chairman of the committee, be withdrawn.


I said I did not come here to be tricked, and I repeat that statement. I certainly have no thought of changing my words into those now used by the Prime

Supply-C.B.C.
Minister. The Minister of National Revenue said he did not come here to be bluffed, and I replied that I did not come here for another purpose. Both of us came here to discuss other matters, and I suggest we get on with the discussion.


If there is any dispute about what the leader of the opposition said, the chairman should consult Hansard, and if the hon. member's words are what I understood them to be, then there should be an order that he withdraw them.


The same goes for bluffing.


A person would have to be a philological expert to appreciate the difference between "trick" and "bluff". I suggest that the Prime Minister might very well read his lecture to his own minister before talking to the opposition.


Order. We are getting too far afield from the discussion on which this matter arose. It seems to me there might be some provocation in the words used by the Minister of National Revenue, although perhaps not to an extent that would justify the leader of the opposition in using the expression he did. When he said he was not here to be tricked, I took it that this might be a reflection on the chairman. I know he does not want to convey that meaning. I think the word "trick" is not parliamentary. On the other hand, it might be a good solution if the Minister of National Revenue and the leader of the opposition would get together on this question.


I would be the first to make amends. There is nothing further from my mind than to say anything offensive. If there was anything offensive in saying somebody was trying to bluff you, which is a common expression, I certainly withdraw unreservedly.


Mr. Chairman, since that is withdrawn, I withdraw the subsequent remark.


I should like to say one more word in order to expedite the business of the house. Last night I had my officers here, and was perfectly ready to go on with as lengthy a discussion as the house wanted on the question of television. I am still prepared to do so. I leave it entirely to the chairman to decide what course of action should be taken.


It seems to me there has been a first-class misunderstanding. Surely we want to be forbearing

with each other and get on with the business at hand. It would be better if the government would accept the suggestion made by the leader of the opposition. By common consent let us agree there was at least a misunderstanding, and get together and work on that basis.


I suggest that if the minister is not ready to proceed this morning we may be able to find some time tomorrow- I hope not too much time-when we can have the officials here. In any event, we will try to find some time to have a discussion on the matter.


Some remarks have been made about the fact that two or three items are called at the same time, especially in the case of supplementary estimates which relate to subjects that have been under discussion. I was told by experienced members of the house that it was somewhat of an innovation on my part to refer hon. members to the pages in the bluebook, the supplement-aries and further supplementaries. I have not done so all the time, but as much as possible I have referred hon. members of the committee to those pages. I still maintain I called that item last night, and that the discussion on it was such as Han