On a point
of personal privilege, the other day the hon. member for Mackenzie (Mr. Nicholson) made a statement to which I took exception, having in mind certain professional information of which I was aware. In reply to my observations at a later stage, he referred to a statement he had obtained from the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys, a copy of which I have since obtained. My point of privilege is that in my humble opinion he referred inadequately to this statement, and I feel that in fairness to the house and myself the statement should be put on Hansard in full.


Is it agreed by the house
that the statement of the hon. gentleman should be put on Hansard?


Would it not be better to
make it as an appendix, rather than including a document such as that in the pages of Hansard?


The document consists of
about three and a half pages; the first page is not full.


Agreed.


No.


Is it the wish of the house
that this statement be inserted in Hansard following the remarks of the hon. gentleman?


Mr. Speaker, I think Your
Honour should make a considered decision in regard to this. There has been a great deal of comment in this house from time to time about the rule, which is very clearly established, against reading speeches. There are exceptions which I think should be borne in mind also; namely, in the case of the Prime Minister (Mr. St. Laurent) and the Leader of the Opposition. After all, we have traditions which are of some importance, and I am referring to long-established traditions.
For reasons that must be obvious to everyone, there are occasions on which it is
appropriate and very wise that a statement by the Prime Minister, for example, or statements by other members of the cabinet, such as the budget of the Minister of Finance, should be read, where they constitute an expression of government policy involving details that ought to be fully presented in prepared form. This can be done without any suggestion that it is a breach of the rules.
Our parliamentary traditions make it equally appropriate for the leader of the opposition, in any of our parliaments which conduct their affairs under the same historic rules, to read any statement where a basic exchange of ideas is called for. There has been objection, however, to the extending practice of reading prepared speeches..
This rule has been observed more by its breach than by its recognition. No tendency has been shown by hon. members on either side to curtail the use of fairly extensive notes. On the other hand, the danger that has been expressed in this house on earlier occasions is that if this should be extended too far a practice might be adopted which is not consistent with our parliamentary procedure, though consistent with a perfectly proper practice under another type of procedure in the congress of the United States, where there is a rule permitting the filing of statements.
I do not think it is proper for us to criticize in any way a practice that exists under another jurisdiction. We all realize, however, that they are two different systems and we should be very careful in this house not to take any step that would suggest by inference the acceptance of the proposition that statements may be put on record as a substitute for the statement of the member himself, who is expected to express his own opinion in regard to anything that has been said at this time or on an earlier occasion.


The Leader of the Opposition is quite right when he says that speeches should not be read in the house. If there was some leniency shown it was on the throne speech debate, and I am quite prepared to show some leniency again when the budget debate comes up. But as a rule speeches should not be read in the house because members are supposed to express their own opinion and not read from long

Privilege-Mr. Weaver previously prepared essays. With that 1 am in full agreement, but at the moment that is not the point.
Here is the point to be considered at the moment. This is a statement re the assistance given by the mines branch in developing treatments of Flin Flon complex sulphide ore and Flin Flon disseminated ore. The hon. member for Churchill (Mr. Weaver) made a speech the other day. As hon. members know, he is by profession a metallurgist. He discussed the very matters that are mentioned in this statement which was prepared by the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys. On the following day, or perhaps the same day, the hon. member for Mackenzie (Mr. Nicholson) made reference to this statement and quoted from it. The hon. member for Churchill rises in his place today and says that in fairness to the house and to himself the statement, which he considers was referred to inadequately by the hon. member for Mackenzie, should be placed on Hansard. That is the point, and I think it is quite different from that which the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Drew) has made. This statement cannot be put on Hansard unless there is unanimous consent.


There is not.


Is there unanimous consent?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think unanimous consent should be given to this. As a matter of fact the hon. member for Lethbridge (Mr. Black-more) and I had a dispute with reference to some quotation the other evening. Am I permitted, in order to substantiate a statement I may make, to put a file or a book on the record of the house? I think we should stick to our time-honoured practice of not extending the record. While I sympathize with the idea behind this, I think probably the hon. gentleman could do it in a speech on mines and resources or something of that sort. I would not be prepared to give my consent to it, on the ground that I would be giving it without knowing what was in the document.


Mr. Speaker, I believe that the hon. gentleman should be allowed to continue with the statement. One of the engineers of the Department of Mines and Technical Surveys prepared a report, of which only part was read to this house. In my opinion that gave a false impression as to the context of the entire report. The hon. member for Churchill (Mr. Weaver), who is a metallurgist, felt that his judgment and his statement had


been called in question, not by the report but by the excerpt of the report given to this house. I think in fairness to both gentlemen, the gentleman who wrote the report and the hon. member for Churchill, the report in its entirety should be on the record of this house.


I still must ask the house if it gives unanimous consent to have this statement printed on Hansard. Is it agreed?


No.


Yes.


Some hon. members say "no". Therefore it cannot be put on Hansard.


On a point of order, now that there is no-


There is no point of order on a question of privilege. If the hon. member for Churchill wants to substantiate further his question of privilege he may do so.


Read it.


This report is a very fair report of the circumstances and I would have been glad to stand on it. However, since the house has not given me unanimous consent to place it on Hansard I shall make just a few remarks.


Read it.


Read the whole thing.


This is a statement re the assistance given by the mines branch in developing treatments of Flin Flon complex sulphide ore and Flin Flon disseminated ore, and it reads:
The following is quoted from mines branch report of investigations in 1921, No. 589, from investigation (test) No. 142 on "The Flin Flon complex sulphide ore", page 100:
"In June, 1920, application was made by the Mining Corporation of Canada, who hold the option on the property, (subsequently Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Co. Limited) to the department of mines for assistance in solving the metallurgical problems in connection with the treatment of the sulphide ore. Later this was extended to cover the disseminated ore."
Investigations on the treatment of the sulphide ore were carried out in 1921 and a report issued. This was published in No. 589 mines branch report.
In 1922, investigations were carried out on the treatment of the disseminated ore and another report issued, making recommendations for four different flowsheets to be tested by pilot runs. This report was published in mines branch report of investigations in 1922, No. 608. In conclusion lines were proposed along which research should be continued. It is interesting to note that three of those lines of research proposed the removal of talc first in order to make the flotation of Flin Flon ore efficient. A reference to this will be made later on.
The results obtained by the mines branch investigations were very encouraging. As is stated in the report (No. 589, pages 112-113):

"A copper concentrate is obtained as high as 15 per cent copper with a recovery of 85 per cent of the copper values in the ore. There is no reason to doubt, as far as the copper is concerned, that these results could be obtained in practice, and it is reasonable to assume that better results would be obtained with experience, and manipulation after operations have progressed for some time.
The results also show that a separation has been made of the chalcopyrite from the sphalerite, pyrite, and gangue, and of the sphalerite from the pyrite and gangue. A zinc concentrate, 40 per cent zinc, with a recovery of 50 per cent zinc values, has been obtained."
Copper concentrates containing 22-6 per cent copper, with a recovery of over 86 per cent were obtained from disseminated ore. (Report No. 608, page 103).
It must be added here that at that time the mines branch had only laboratory equipment and no large scale equipment to make pilot runs in order to confirm laboratory findings. However, the most important point to note is that the mines branch investigations showed that the economic minerals could be separated into good grade concentrates.
It was in 1925 that Whitney interests of New York came into the picture. In "History of Development and Organization at Flin Flon mines, Manitoba," C.I.M., Trans., Vol. XXXIII, page 214, W. A. Green says:
"Results of small experimental tests which we (Whitney interests) had made on the ore prior to the examination of the property (in June, 1925) led us to believe that a satisfactory treatment might be obtained."
W. A. Green says further:
"Having assured ourselves of the presence of the ore and available power, our next step was to prove, by more extensive laboratory tests, the correctness of our belief that a successful method of treatment for the ore could be worked out. Accordingly, 300 tons of ore was shipped from Flin Flon to Denver, Colorado, to the research laboratories of Metals Exploration Company, a company belonging to the Whitney interests."
S. P. Lowe carried on this experimental work in Denver.
In "concentration and cyanidation at Flin Flon pilot mill" (C.I.M., Trans., Vol. XXXIII, page 222) S. P. Lowe says:
"Flotation testing of Flin Flon ore was started in the Denver laboratory of Complex Ore Recoveries Co. in March, 1926. There had been a considerable amount of flotation testing previously which had shown possibilities of success, and it was felt that, with the increased knowledge of flotation and the comparatively new reagents then available, flotation held out the best prospects for a successful treatment of this ore."
The pilot plant runs, treating two tons a day, were completed on July 1, 1926, and on August 1, 1926, it was decided to instal a 25-ton pilot flotation plant at Flin Flon.
S. P. Lowe says:
"This (pilot) mill was operated until March 10, 1928, treating ore from various parts of the mine. The pilot plant was started again in July, 1928, and operated until February, 1929, when it was permanently shut down."
It was found that before an efficient separation of the economic minerals was obtained, the removal of talc was a necessity. This was in line with the recommendations made by the mines branch in 1922.
The above paper gives complete details of the results obtained by the Flin Flon pilot plant and they can be compared with the results obtained by the mines branch in 1921 and 1922. Since during
Privilege-Mr. Weaver the operation of Flin Flon pilot plant, new reagents became available, these new reagents were introduced into flotation.
The 3,000 ton mill at Flin Flon went into operation probably some time in 1930. However, operating difficulties were encountered, and Mr. R. E. Phelan, then general manager of Hudson Bay Mining and Smelting Company, asked for a flotation engineer from the mines branch. Accordingly, Mr. A. K. Anderson was sent to the mine late in December, 1930, where Mr. Phelan explained the difficulties to Mr. Anderson.
The latter carried on research at the mill for about two months. At the completion of this research, Mr. Anderson returned and submitted his report. In his letter to Mr. John McLeish, director of mines branch, dated March 27, 1931, Mr. Phelan says in part:
"We all thought very highly of Mr. Anderson and he has brought out two things which may be very important; one is the use of sodium sulphide and the other, the use of an iron salt in the circuit."
On June 13, 1931, Mr. Phelan requested information from the mines branch in connection with the removal of some deleterious material, including talc, prior to flotation for valuable minerals. He was referred to mines branch reports of 1921 and 1922.
That is signed by the head of the mineral dressing section. I am quite satisfied to leave this on the record.


Mr. Speaker, further to that point of privilege, I wish to thank the hon. member for Churchill (Mr. Weaver) for having placed this on the record. Had I found the house in such good humour when I made my speech I would have asked permission to read the whole report yesterday.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday on the orders of the day the hon. member for Calgary North (Mr. Harkness) asked me four questions regarding the 26,000 .30 calibre rifles sent by Canada to France. First, he asked as to the make of these rifles. The rifles are Springfield .30 M1917, used by the United States army during the first world war.
Second and third, he asked when and from whom they were acquired. The rifles were purchased by Canada from the United States in the early days of the second world war for the use of veterans' guards and similar organizations. Fourth, he asked why the rifles are being disposed of. The rifles, of course, are not of the type used by the Canadian army, and they are being sent to France as part of our mutual aid program.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to ask for the adjournment of

Private Bills
the house under standing order No. 31 to discuss a matter of urgent public importance-[DOT]


I am sorry, but the adjournment of the house under standing order No. 31 can be moved only after routine proceedings have been dealt with. It has to be done after routine proceedings have been dealt with and before orders of the day are called, and if the hon. member looks at standing orders 15 and 31, he will see that introduction of bills and the first reading of Senate bills must be called now.


for leave to introduce Bill No. 81, to amend the British North America Acts, 1867 to 1952, with respect to the quorum of the House of Commons.
He said: Mr. Speaker, the introduction of this bill is based on the authority of the parliament of Canada to amend the British North America Act in respect of matters exclusively federal. The purpose of this bill is to increase the quorum of the House of Commons from a minimum of twenty members, which is now the case, to a minimum of thirty members, so as to maintain a proportion similar to that which existed in 1867, when the membership of the house was 181 as compared with today's, which is 265.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Bill No. 31, for the relief of James Alexander Stevenson.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 32, for the relief of Vyvyan Holcombe Hervey.-Mr. Croll.
Bill No. 33, for the relief of Gilberte Drouyn Serres.-Mr. Croll.
Bill	No.	34,	for	the	relief	of	Margaret
Alice May Plinn Cote.-Mr. Weir.
Bill	No.	35,	for	the	relief	of	Stanislas
Anthony Placzek.-Mr. Croll.
Bill No. 36, for the relief of Rose Enkin Carriere.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 37, for the relief of Lottie Levine Lubotsky, otherwise known as Lottie Levine Kuznicki.-Mr. Croll.
Bill	No.	38,	for	the	relief	of	Solanges
Laperle Desjardins.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 39, for the relief of Jack Kaufman. -Mr. Croll.
Bill No. 40, for the relief of Selma Sara Schachter Lande.-Mr. Croll.

Bill No. 41, for the relief of Paul Joseph Simard.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 42, for the relief of John McCullough Gasken.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 43, for the relief of Joseph Louis de Gonzague Giguere.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 44, for the relief of Jean Hunter Bercovitz.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 45, for the relief of Diane Lorraine Cleveland Morgan Stewart Patterson.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 46, for the relief of Elsie Eleanor Bennett Kirkcaldy.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 47, for the relief of Bernice Margaret Vizzutti Charters.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 48, for the relief of Archibald Christopher Mottley.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 49, for the relief of Bessita Asaria Farchi Lotenberg, otherwise known as Bessita Asaria Farchi Lotey.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 50, for the relief of George William Bonfield.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 51, for the relief of Marjorie Joan LeRiche Dunphy.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 52, for the relief of Geraldine Donovan Wilcox.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 53, for the relief of Norma Mary MacKenzie Benton.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 54, for the relief of Anna Smi-lovitch King.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 55, for the relief of Kathleen Dempsey Robertson.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 56, for the relief of Joyce Delia Pierce Korenberg.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 57, for the relief of Alfonsas Jankus.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 58, for the relief of Michael Lansky. -Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 59, for the relief of Wilma Elizabeth Dalglish Rochon.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 60, for the relief of John Cromkie Nicol.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 61, for the relief of Tyrus Raymond Markham.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 62, for the relief of Thelma Louise Heinz Finlay.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 63, for the relief of Dorothy Joan Glegg Statham.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 64, for the relief of Mary Laura Olive Coote Laflamme.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 65, for the relief of Sadie Denen-berg Rockman.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 66, for the relief of Yukiko Takeuchi Zusko.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 67, for the relief of Joan Gooder-ham Wyman.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 68, for the relief of Guy Favreau. -Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 69, for the relief of Elizabeth Stewart Hughes Koren.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 70, for the relief of Esther Wray Carpenter Batt.-Mr. Weir.

Bill No. 71, for the relief of Shirley Mary Davis Robertson.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 72, for the relief of Carlo Castelli. -Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 73, for the relief of Eveline Shaheen Sauvageau.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 74, for the relief of George William Swinwood.-Mr. Weir.
Bill No. 75, for the relief of Marguerite Frances Wiggins MacKay.-Mr. Weir.
for leave to introduce Bill No. 79 (from the Senate), respecting the boundary between the provinces of Ontario and Manitoba.
Motion agreed to and bill read the first time.


Mr. Speaker, I ask leave, seconded by the hon. member for Assiniboia (Mr. Argue), to move the adjournment of the house under standing order No. 31, for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent public importance, namely, the need for an immediate meeting of the Canada-United States joint economic and trade committee, the establishment of which was announced at the time of President Eisenhower's recent visit to this country, for the purpose of taking immediate action to avoid the trade crisis which now threatens the economy of this country as a result of this week's announcement from Washington that the United States government is now subsidizing its exports of wheat sold outside the international wheat agreement, in violation of article XVI of the general agreement on tariffs and trade.
The subject matter, Mr. Speaker, is so pressing that the public interest will suffer if it is not given immediate attention and I therefore ask leave to move the adjournment of the house to discuss it.


The hon. member has asked leave to move adjournment of the house under standing order No. 31. He has introduced his motion at the proper time in accordance with the first paragraph of standing order No. 31, and he has also complied with the requirements of the second section of the same standing order.
He has handed to me a written statement of the matter proposed to be discussed. I
Wheat
wish to quote from the third paragraph of standing order No. 31 to the effect that the Speaker when he thinks it in order and of urgent public importance reads it out and asks whether the member have leave of the house.
It is my task to give my opinion as to whether this matter which has been brought up by the hon. member is in order. I think it is. But is it of urgent public importance? Now, it has to do with:
. . . the need for an immediate meeting of the Canada-United States joint economic and trade committee, the establishment of which was announced at the time of President Eisenhower's recent visit to this country, for the purpose of taking immediate action to avoid the trade crisis which now threatens the economy of this country. . .
I must ask myself first of all whether this proposal, if we are going to debate it today, would be one that would bring about the results that are contemplated in the motion to adjourn, and if there is urgency of debate. The hon. member has it in mind to adjourn the house to discuss a matter of public importance. When he tells us what it is, he claims there is the need for a meeting of a committee established recently.


A meeting?


Yes. The hon. gentleman wishes to have a meeting of this committee which was announced by the President of the United States when he was here recently. This is a committee which, so far as 1 think this house is aware-


A joint committee.


Yes, but there is no official information before this house that this committee does exist, except the announcement of its existence by the President. It is not that we want to doubt the word of the President of the United States. My difficulty at the moment is this. How can I consider how urgent and important it is to have a discussion of the need for having a committee meet, on a mere announcement of its creation a few weeks ago, if not more?


That is not the point.


That is the beginning of the point. Perhaps someone else in the house could provide me with some assistance as to the existence of that committee.


Is there such a board?


Is there such a board? If there is, is it contemplated that it will deal with these very matters that the hon. gentleman has referred to. In my judgment it is extremely doubtful that this question presents the kind of urgency of debate which

Wheat
is required by standing order 31. If the hon. gentleman wishes to enlighten me further, I shall be glad to hear from him.


The urgency, Mr. Speaker, is not the appointment of the committee but the announcement made by the United States this week with regard to the selling of subsidized wheat on the world market, something which is of extremely serious concern to Canada and particularly to the wheat growers of Canada. That is why I think there is urgency about it. If the house permits me to develop it, I will show that there is urgency.


The committee has not been established yet.


In view of what the hon. gentleman has said, I do not wish to deal further with the matter of urgency. I will simply ask the house if the hon. gentleman has leave to move the adjournment of the house under standing order 31. Has the hon. gentleman leave to move the adjournment?


Agreed.


No.


No. "If objection is taken, the Speaker," and I quote standing order 31, "requests those members who support the motion to rise in their places". Will the hon. gentlemen supporting the motion rise in their places? There are more than 20; therefore I will call upon the hon. member who has asked for leave to take the floor.


May I thank you, Mr. Speaker, and the house. I think that as I proceed with my remarks I shall be able to show that it is a matter of considerable urgency. Those who have been following this situation will recollect that the United States announced that non-international wheat agreement exports of wheat would be subsidized by the United States, through the Commodity Credit Corporation, on November 19. On December 7-that is last Monday- the actual policy was made public and it went into effect on December 8, last Tuesday.
First of all I want to quote what I believe to be a cogent interpretation of the policy by someone with whom I frequently disagree on these matters but who, when he was in the press gallery, made a study of such questions. I refer to Mr. Grant Dexter of the Winnipeg Free Press. He said this on December 8:
In the past, the United States government, while empowered to subsidize all exports of wheat, in practice has subsidized only exports under the international wheat agreement. As all exporter

members of I.W.A. have quotas allocated to them, there has been, in fact, no price competition as between the exporting nations under this agreement.
Indeed the class II wheat which was sold outside the agreement until very recently has fetched a higher price than that under the wheat agreement.


The hon. member is not going to read an article by Grant Dexter, is he?


The so-called world price-[DOT] and I use the word "so-called" advisedly- was continually rather higher than the international wheat agreement price and therefore there was no competition.
The new announcement states that the United States department of agriculture has instructed the Commodity Credit Corporation to subsidize non-international wheat agreement exports exactly as the international wheat agreement exports have hitherto been subsidized. The United States new policy of subsidization will operate right across the board for all wheat. So far, of course, no headlong, indiscriminate dumping is contemplated, I believe. I again quote from Mr. Dexter's article:
But unless the Canadian and United States governments reach an understanding, there will be hereafter general as distinct from restricted competition. As non-I.W.A. exports are to be subsidized only to the level of the I.W.A. price it is assumed that the downward thrust would be arrested at the I.W.A. floor price which is $1.55 per bushel basis Fort William.
Again I was quoting from the same article in the Winnipeg Free Press of December 8.


Could I have that last statement again, that it would be arrested-?


Yes.


Competition would be
arrested?


Yes, at the point of $1.55. That is Mr. Dexter's statement, not mine.
The new United States policy-and it is a new policy-seems to me to be related to two facts.


May I ask my hon. friend if he has moved the adjournment of the house to discuss an article on wheat appearing in the Winnipeg Free Press?


No. I think the hon. gentleman will realize in a few moments that I have something much more important to discuss-


I hope so.


-than the Winnipeg Free Press article, important though an article of

this description may be to the people who read it. I say that there are two tacts involved. The first is that since the United Kingdom left the international wheat agreement, the international wheat agreement covers only about 35 per cent of the international trade in wheat. I think that is approximately the correct figure. The second fact is that the Liverpool cash and futures market opened on December 1, and the London futures market, we were told, will open in January.
When we look at the wheat holdings in North America, particularly in the United States, we can see the importance of what is being done by our great neighbour to the south. The United States wheat holdings in all positions amount to about 1,700 million bushels. I think the latest figure I saw was 1,702 million bushels of wheat. Of this amount some 780 million bushels-I think 777 million is the latest figure I saw-of wheat are held by the United States government under its price support policy. The announcement to which I have referred, namely that the United States government is to sell its holdings under the Commodity Credit Corporation and to subsidize wheat not governed by the international wheat agreement, means that the United States government contemplates the sale of three-quarters of a billion bushels of wheat at prices that it will fetch on the world market. At least that is the interpretation that I would place upon the statement and on the policy.
If this is correct, and I believe it is, then this is indeed a very serious threat not only to the international wheat agreement, in connection with which the price of $2.05 was largely agreed to by the exporting nations because of the insistence of the United States, but it is also a threat-and I think this is the important thing to us-to Canada's export position in markets which hitherto we have regarded as peculiarly our own. That of course is largely the British market where, because of the quality of our products and so on, we have had a preferred position over the years, and in the case of flour some preference.
It seems to me that the Canadian government should take immediate steps in an attempt to safeguard our wheat economy from what may be, and what on the face of it looks as though it probably will be, disastrous competition brought about by the policy of the United States government. When we remember that the Liverpool grain exchange opened for business on December 1 and that in January the futures market will open in the great city of London, we can see first of
Wheat
all a reason why the members of the present British government, never wholly in favour of commodity agreements, hoped that the wheat-producing countries would enter into serious competition for the British market. I do not think there is any doubt but what they had that in mind when they were discussing the international wheat agreement and subsequently refused to sign it.
It also appears evident to me that the United States government, failing to force importing countries to accept a price of $2.05 per bushel under the wheat agreement, decided that it would take these steps first of all to reduce their wheat holdings, and second, since the international wheat agreement was not signed and thus was not satisfactory to them, to destroy the agreement and to monopolize the overseas market in this very important cereal as far as they could. Therefore I proposed the adjournment of the house for these reasons, not for the purpose of discussing the editorial in the Winnipeg Free Press.


Thank goodness for that.


Although I quoted it as an introduction to what I have to say and because it related to a very important announcement from Washington that the United States government intends to subsidize its exports of wheat outside the international wheat agreement. I repeat that in my opinion this is a direct contravention of the letter, not to mention the spirit, of the Geneva trade agreement, GATT.


What clause of the Geneva trade agreement?


I will read it. It violates article XVI of the agreement which is quite clear and unambiguous in its language. Article XVI, as contained in the final act, reads as follows:
Article XVI Subsidies
If any contracting party grants or maintains any subsidy, including any form of income or price support, which operates directly or indirectly to increase exports of any product from, or to reduce imports of any product into, its territory, it shall notify the contracting parties in writing of the extent and nature of the subsidization, of the estimated effect of the subsidization on the quantity of the affected product or products imported into or exported from its territory and of the circumstances making the subsidization necessary. In any case in which it is determined that serious prejudice to the interests of any other contracting party is caused or threatened by any such subsidization, the contracting party granting the subsidy shall, upon request,-

Wheat
I hope the government will make this request if they have not already done so.
-discuss with the other contracting party or parties concerned, or with the contracting parties, the possibility of limiting the subsidization.
That is article XVI of the agreement, and I have looked through the whole agreement very carefully and can find nothing which would seem to modify that particular section. This move on the part of the United States makes it obvious that that country is now making a major effort to capture as much of the non-international wheat agreement market as possible without regard for the consequences that are bound to befall other wheat exporting nations, and primarily Canada. I say that this raises a very serious problem for Canada in view of the fact that we are estimated to have 550 million bushels of wheat for export outside the international wheat agreement and in addition to supplies for our domestic consumption. It places us in the position of either trying to compete with the United States, which could only lead to a cutthroat kind of competition, something which I think they and we should wish to avoid, or not being able to sell this great quantity of wheat ourselves in the overseas market.
Of equally grave importance is the fact that such unilateral policies cannot help but undermine the international wheat agreement which, despite its limitations, and I want to make this very clear to the house, in our opinion has been without qualification the most successful means yet devised to give fair treatment to importing and exporting nations alike. So I say that the gravity of the situation as it affects Canada is clear. It has been emphasized by spokesmen for farm organizations and, it is reported in the press, by officials of the Canadian wheat board, all of whom have expressed deep concern over this development in United States policy. A Canadian Press dispatch from Winnipeg dated December 9 reports that officials there state that the Canadian wheat board, which has had little competition in class II wheat sales, will receive "stiff opposition" from the United States.
On November 14, and this has to do with my reference to President Eisenhower in the motion I moved, President Eisenhower informed this parliament that a joint economic and trade committee, consisting of cabinet officers of our two countries, which had already been approved according to the President, would meet periodically to discuss economic and trade problems and the means for their equitable solution. We believe that the time has now come to make use of this joint committee in order to seek redress of

this unilateral action of the United States in contravening the Geneva agreements of 1947 and threatening the basic security of our great and very important wheat industry upon which so very much of the prosperity of this country depends.
We strongly urge therefore that the Canadian government lose no time in calling for a meeting of this joint committee. I do not want to prolong the debate because there is other business of the house to do, but this matter is very important and I should like to point out that already because of the failure to reach a satisfactory wheat agreement we have seen class II wheat fall quite substantially on the markets since July. I have in my hand at the moment a clipping from today's paper which gives the prices for class II wheat at Winnipeg yesterday to exporting countries outside the international wheat agreement. The quotations are as follows: No. 1 northern $1.88f; No. 2, $1.84f; No. 3, $1.80|; No. 4, $1.75f.
These are the four milling grades of wheat, and of course the farmer usually has very little of No. 1 northern wheat. This year a great deal of it will go as No. 2 wheat, although I hope more of it this year than usual may go as No. 1 northern. But these are the first four grades, and when you are considering the prices of this wheat you have to remember that you have to deduct 18, 19, 20 or 21 cents a bushel for freight to Fort William. Therefore if we take 20 cents as an average, the price the farmer will get on the farm will be $1.68 for No. 1 northern of which there is not a great quantity. If we take No. 4 wheat, take off the 20 cents, that sells at Winnipeg at $1.55. When we get down to $1.55, we find we are getting very close to the spot at which the raising of wheat for the average farmer, I will not say for the big farmer, is almost impossible financially and therefore uneconomic.
The costs of operation have gone up to such an extent, the prices of machinery have risen, the cost of oil and gasoline and other things which enter into the harvesting of this grain, particularly where you have harvesting by binders as still persists in some parts of western Canada, with the high price of binder twine, so if we are not careful we shall find the returns from wheat are reaching a point where the farmers will be unable to continue operation and make a decent living for themselves and their families. The reason I raise the matter at this time, Mr. Speaker, is that I believe before the house adjourns for the Christmas vacation an opportunity should be given to the minister, and perhaps some other members of the house, of expressing their views.

Certainly, I should like the minister to comment, not only on the editorial in the Free Press, but upon anything that I have said in support of my contention that this is a matter of urgency and national importance.


I am very glad to do so, Mr. Speaker. I said in the house that we had a tremendous problem in the marketing of wheat, and I spoke of the requisites that were needed. One of the requisites I mentioned was steadiness. I believe steadiness means adhering to a principle in marketing that we believe is consistent with the policies of the wheat board, and not starting wild rumours. Speaking in western Canada, I said that I was afraid that certain newspapers in the west were more anxious to justify their own theories about the marketing of wheat than they were to help in the marketing of Canadian surpluses. I suggest that the editorials in the Winnipeg Free Press are cases in point, and there is not too much concern on the part of the editor about the accuracy of the statements.
In so far as the present situation is concerned, there are two prices of wheat in the United States. One is the domestic price which is quoted every day on the Chicago grain exchange and all other grain exchanges, and the other is the international wheat agreement price. By agreement the international wheat agreement price is contained between the upper limit of $2.05 and the lower limit of $1.55. The present price is around $1.90. I might point out to the hon. member that certainly in the last twenty years no crop has ever realized as much as $1.90 per bushel for No. 1 northern wheat, Fort William. In view of the large stocks, I believe this price is a realistic one, and it is a price that I believe is profitable to our farmers. I hope it is a price that our customers are able to pay.
I take it the hon. member has no worry about wheat being sold by the United States under the international wheat agreement at the current price. It is a competitive price. It is not a maximum or minimum price, and in my opinion it is realistic under present-day conditions. It is a realistic price, and it is a price to which we subscribe. The hon. member's objection is that the United States Commodity Credit Corporation is undertaking to sell wheat at competitive world prices. Now, what is the competitive price in the world? In the non-agreement markets it is presently the same as in the agreement markets; that is almost inevitable when wheat sold under the agreement is selling at other than the maximum price. In any event, that is the case.
Wheat
Now, the hon. member suggests that the United States has been quite willing to turn over all the non-agreement markets to Canada. As a matter of fact, in all these markets we compete with the Argentine, with Turkey, to a certain extent with Sweden, France and of course Soviet Russia. These are not exclusive markets for anyone. I do not know why the United States should not be permitted' to compete in those markets as well. They also have always sold substantial quantities of wheat on the class II market. As a matter of fact this move by the United States was not made surreptitiously. Before it was undertaken the Commodity Credit Corporation asked our wheat board to meet with them in Chicago and discuss the whole situation thoroughly. A little while later two of President Eisenhower's advisers came to Ottawa to discuss the meeting of the economic committee, and this matter was discussed at that time. We could' offer no serious objection to the proposed arrangement.


The matter was discussed by the committee?


In general, yes.


And we made no objection to it?


No particular objection. We would rather that they did not, but I have to put myself in the position of the head of the credit corporation. I do not know that I would be content to hold that volume of wheat off the market entirely. I suggest that there is no violation of GATT involved. Why is it any more a violation of GATT to sell non-agreement wheat, which is subsidized so far as the domestic market is concerned, than it is to sell agreement wheat? Certainly we would never complain under GATT that that is a violation.
If the move was made to take away markets, perhaps there would be a case, but the purpose of this move is not to take away markets but to be allowed to compete in markets at prevailing prices. I see nothing in this situation that is unfair or unjustifiable. I think that it is a step to be expected, and so far as the wheat board is concerned, it presents only another element of competition. It is not one that makes us particularly fearful. We are very fortunate, in fact. We have high protein wheat in Canada, whereas the wheat held by the corporation in the United States is for the most part soft wheat. These two kinds of wheat do not compete on exactly equal terms. The British market usually takes the high protein wheat to mix with their soft wheats which are grown in Britain and Australia. No one can say to what extent

Wheat
this will affect our position in the British market. I would' not expect our position to be seriously affected.
If our position is seriously affected, I am sure we will be entitled to ask for a readjustment in the international wheat agreement quotas. From my association with the United States over eighteen years, I feel quite satisfied that if we have a case for readjustment that case will get consideration in that country. I am glad that the matter has been raised. I think it is unfortunate that these rumours of disaster are put out. They upset the producers of wheat, and to no good purpose whatever. I can assure you that the wheat board will tell the world if our situation is deteriorating. I do not think it is. We knew about this situation in advance, and the wheat board was consulted. It is not a situation that causes any particular terror to anyone concerned with the selling of Canadian wheat.


I wonder if I might ask a question?


Could the minister tell us if he has had any information from the United States government as to the amount of wheat they are prepared to put on the market at prices, we will say, down to $1.55?


What kind of a question is that? Why would they consult us? I do know how much wheat they have. I know they do not intend to put it on the market at $1.55. I hope the hon. member is not going to join this brigade that spreads terror in the minds of the wheat producers. We are selling wheat at a price we think is reasonable for the producer of wheat under these conditions of surplus. We think the buyers of wheat feel that it is a reasonable price. So far as I know, I do not expect any radical departure up or down from that price under these circumstances.


I am sorry, but the minister has not answered the question that I asked him in perfect good faith.


I can tell my hon. friend that in the United States there is close to one billion bushels of wheat. Whether they are going to sell it at their domestic price, or at the price they are selling now, or at $1.55, I cannot tell him. I think he has to guess that for himself, if he wishes to indulge in guessing.


The minister has no information, then?


No.


That is all I wanted to know.


The statement of the Minister of Trade and Commerce was, as usual, an optimistic one, and I hope that events will bear him out. However, I believe that this question is a little more serious than it would appear from the statement that has just been made. I also want to refer to the Winnipeg Free Press, and I want to assure the minister that my opinion of their marketing policies is pretty much the same as his. However, I am not going to quote an opinion from this paper, but what is supposed to be a fact. Incidentally this statement is dated December 7, 1953. It starts off by saying:
Governments of the world's major food exporting countries are keeping a close eye on foreign marketings of surplus United States' farm products.
There is no doubt at all that behind this move that has been started in the United States there is more than subsidizing a few million bushels of wheat. Farther down the item they say:
The Commodity Credit Corporation, meanwhile, holds almost $4,500 million worth of surplus produce and congress may be glad to see some of it unloaded abroad at low prices.
That I would assume to be based on fact. If it is, then there is greater danger to the whole concept of orderly marketing than has been indicated in the minister's reply. I believe that it could be the thin edge of the wedge that could spell the end of orderly marketing as we understand it.
In Manitoba the farmers are very much concerned about this whole question and I assure you, Mr. Speaker, that a statement should have been made in this house earlier than this, setting out all the information that has been obtained. A statement has been made today. It does not answer all the questions. For example, there is the question of price intended for this wheat that is to be subsidized, which is still a matter of speculation. One paper says one thing and another another. According to the Globe and Mail, for example, the price will be $1.55. The Minister of Trade and Commerce says it will not be $1.55. Now, if someone is in a position to make an authoritative statement on it, it should be made.
This news came before the public just about the time that the farmers of Manitoba- that is the Farmers Union of Manitoba- were having their annual convention. It is a body which now represents approximately 35,000 farmers in that province. The statement got an immediate response from the president of the union who, since this appeared in the press, asked that there be a system of subsidized wheat in Canada.

That is not a new demand or request on the part of the farmers' union. They have asked repeatedly that Canada have a two-price system, a guaranteed domestic price, and then of course a world price according to whatever arrangements could be made under certain agreements. That is exactly where the danger is at the present moment. The minister feels that we are in no different position from the United States on this matter. But so far as the producer is concerned we are definitely in a different position. They have a two-price system in the United States; they have the higher guaranteed price to the producer, and then they sell their surplus in the world markets at whatever price they can arrange. Here in Canada we have not a two-price system so far as the guaranteed price is concerned.
I believe that if the United States continues on this trend, which I predict is going to be more pronounced very soon, the government should be prepared to consider a two-price system in Canada, and if necessary a subsidy for the wheat producer in order that we may hold our position.
I also believe there is another approach that might eventually be a more effective one. An effort must be made, and soon, to reduce the cost of production of grain, because if the situation arises where we are forced by circumstances to accept a lower price for grain on the world market, whether it be under an agreement or otherwise, then the farmer, at the present cost of production, is simply not going to be able to make ends meet. That is something that can be done without having to go into negotiations with other countries. This is a domestic situation. Steps must be taken to bring down the cost of production to the point where the farmer can produce grain and sell it on the markets of the world, whether under agreement or otherwise, and be able to have something as a margin for his labour.
There is another reason why a definite statement needs to be made as to why the request made by my leader should be seriously considered, as to the meeting of the joint committee, because statements come flying thick and fast from various sources, and the minister himself has said that some of the newspapers may be printing statements which are not correct. I am not in a position to say whether he is right or whether the newspapers are right; but here is one that also appeared in the Winnipeg Free Press. It reads:
Both the United States of America and Canada are anxious to maintain the wheat prices at the present levels. "It is as much in the interests of
Wheat
the Americans as in Canada's interests that there be no wholesale 'dumping' of wheat on the market," a high ranking government spokesman said.
This statement is attributed to a high-ranking Canadian government spokesman. These statements come out and appear in the press across Canada, and are attributed to high-ranking government spokesmen. We are getting a little anxio