Mr. W. J. Henderson (Kingston) presented the first, second and third reports of the standing committee on miscellaneous private bills, and moved that the first report be concurred in.
Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I promised the Leader of the Opposition (Mr. Diefenbaker) yesterday that I would endeavour to give him a list of the matters that are apt to be, or which may possibly be, brought before parliament at this session. With respect to those specially mentioned in the speech from the throne, there are only three which are not already on the order papers either of this house or of the other place, and they will be brought forward almost at once. One is a bill to amend the Merchant Seamen Compensation Act, another is to revise the Federal District Commission Act, and a third is to ratify the north Pacific fur seal convention.
There are some matters which may arise, depending upon the actions of provincial governments or provincial legislatures. They would include, first of all, enabling legislation concerning hospital insurance; second, an act to amend the Judges Act, depending upon whether there is any requirement resulting from provincial legislation to increase the numbers of judges in any of the provinces; and, third, an amendment to the Lake of the Woods Control Board Act, depending upon action that has not yet been completed by the provincial legislatures of Ontario and Manitoba.
There will be bills to confirm the Alberta-Northwest Territories boundary survey, to constitute a peace bridge authority, to amend the Prairie Grain Producers' Interim Financing Act, to amend the Eastern Rocky Mountain Forest Conservation Act, the Northwest Territories Act and the Yukon Act. These are small amendments that are
not particularly urgent, but it might be convenient to dispose of them if there is an opportunity to do so.
There will be a bill to amend the Prisons and Reformatories Act, resulting from the fact that the government of British Columbia is establishing a new penal institution, and the purpose of the legislation would be to authorize the transfer of prisoners from existing institutions to the new institution.
There may possibly be bills to amend the Canadian and British Insurance Companies Act and the United Kingdom Financial Agreement Act of 1946. With respect to the latter, negotiations are progressing and as soon as they have been completed the Minister of Finance will be making an announcement about them.


That has to do with the
waiver of interest?


Well, with
the problem arising out of the request that has been submitted for the waiver of interest, and which would involve some modification of the original agreement. There may also be bills to amend the Canadian Vessel Construction Assistance Act, the Canada Evidence Act, the Fertilizers Act and possibly legislation to confirm tax agreements between Canada and other countries which have been or are being negotiated.
Of course there will be the legislation consequent upon the budget and the usual appropriation bills and the annual Canadian National Railways financing and guarantee bill. There might be other matters about which it would be found convenient, if there was time, to bring forward legislation but they will concern matters about which no decisions have yet been reached by the government.


The Prime Minister did not mention specifically legislation to implement the findings of the committee of the Senate which investigated the narcotic drugs traffic. Can he tell the house whether it is intended to introduce such legislation?


There is
a bill before the other place at the present time dealing with the matter.


Is it the intention to bring
in the legislation necessary to implement the budget?

Ministerial Statements


Well, it
is the intention if there is time to do so, but the experience over the last few days has been that the less controversial a recommendation to parliament is, the longer is the time taken in speeches by everyone to express his qualified approval of what has been submitted.


Perhaps I could put it this
way. Does the Prime Minister consider it unlikely that the legislation implementing the budget will go through before dissolution?


Well, we
always hope that the legislation we bring forward can go through, but we do not attempt to rush matters.


Oh, oh.


We want
hon. members to feel-


A big change since the pipeline debate.


Well,
there are certain matters connected with the pipe line that I will be glad to discuss at any time it may be appropriate to do so. In the meantime I can assure the hon. gentleman that I am very happy with what discussion of the pipe line has brought about as a development in Canada.


Hear, hear.


We will endeavour to have all matters dealt with in a manner that will satisfy hon. members that they have given to them the consideration they should. It may not be possible to have that done with respect to everything I have mentioned this afternoon.


In other words the election is most important.


Mr. Speaker, under a democratic system I think elections are extremely important, and that periodical elections are the best safeguard for respect for the rights of the people.


The electors think so too.


Order.


Why did you not call the election last year? You have changed your mind since last summer.


May I suggest that the elections are not on yet.


They are getting pretty close.


May I
ask a supplementary question of the Prime Minister. I understand that he made no
reference to the subject of legislation on the question of probation, which I understand is very dear to the heart of the Minister of Justice. I had hoped it might be on the list.


Mr. Speaker, I hope there might be time for even more of the good measures that we have under preparation to be considered and adopted by parliament.


May I ask the Prime Minister a supplementary question?


Why not wait until the stage when questions are reached?


Did the Prime Minister's last remark in his original statement as to other legislation which it might be found convenient to bring down leave the door open for legislation with respect to old age pensions?


Mr. Speaker, it had nothing to do with the door with regard to old age pensions. That would be something that would be consequent upon the budget.


Then may we assume that that door is open?


['I have done that already in the house, but I do not mind repeating it. It is because that kind of correspondence is never made public. After communicating with the government of the United Kingdom we ascertained that it was still their position, as it is ours, that there should not be the feeling that this kind of correspondence may some day have to be made public. It is a frank exchange of views between those who are thus corresponding and it has been in the past, and is still being found, very useful in trying to co-ordinate the views and the actions of the member governments of the commonwealth.']
Mr. Speaker, on the order for motions may I make an announcement. Perhaps I should explain why I am doing this. A request was received by the government and I do not think I can inform the house with respect to the matter in any better way than by reading the letter which I propose to send in answer to the request. It is addressed to Mr. Wilfrid P. Gregory of Stratford, and reads as follows:
Dear Mr. Gregory:	Re:	Stratford Shakespearean
Festival
May I refer to your request on behalf of the festival for financial assistance.
All of us are conscious of the importance and the status of the festival in Canadian cultural history. The initiative and imagination displayed by the people of Stratford have brought great credit to the community, the people of Ontario and indeed the whole of Canada. It would not be surprising, therefore, that the government of the province of Ontario would feel that this initiative and the great advantages which have accrued and will continue to accrue from the activities of the festival should be recognized, and we have noted that the provincial government have already contributed $100,000 and have been asked to contribute a further $150,000 to the capital program of the festival. We share their view that a permanent theatre in Stratford would not only be a recognition of the unique contribution which has

already been made by the festival, and by those who conceived and promoted it, but would be of lasting benefit to all Canadians.
This is to advise you that we shall include in the further supplementary estimates, which will be recommended to parliament next month, a grant to the capital program of the festival equal to that being contributed by the government of the province of Ontario, that is $250,000.


May I congratulate the government-


There is no need to do that.


-for this great assistance to a national enterprise.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister supplementary to the one that was asked yesterday by the hon. member for Victoria (Ont.). Would he be good enough to tell the house why he refused to table the letter directed to Sir Anthony Eden?


I have done that already in the house, but I do not mind repeating it. It is because that kind of correspondence is never made public. After communicating with the government of the United Kingdom we ascertained that it was still their position, as it is ours, that there should not be the feeling that this kind of correspondence may some day have to be made public. It is a frank exchange of views between those who are thus corresponding and it has been in the past, and is still being found, very useful in trying to co-ordinate the views and the actions of the member governments of the commonwealth.


On the orders of the day:
I would like to ask the Acting Secretary of State for External Affairs whether he is prepared to answer the question I asked yesterday concerning the proposed use of United Nations naval forces to guarantee freedom of shipping through the gulf of Aqaba?


Mr. Speaker, I am
ready now to deal with this matter. I was aware that there was a news report over the radio yesterday morning which indicated that the Secretary of State for External Affairs
Inquiries of the Ministry had suggested that United Nations naval forces might be used to guarantee freedom of shipping through the gulf of Aqaba.
I can say that the Secretary of State for External Affairs made no such suggestion. The hon. member also asked whether or not naval forces were at the disposal of the United Nations for such a purpose, and the answer to that is that there are no naval forces at the disposal of the United Nations for this purpose.
I might add that no Canadian offer of naval forces has been made to the United Nations emergency force, nor has any request been received from the secretary general for such forces. If and when a request for naval reinforcements for the United Nations emergency force were made by the secretary general, it should be recalled that Canada is already supplying a higher proportion of the UNEF than any other participating country. It should also be remembered that there are other countries not now participating in the UNEF which have offered forces.
The Secretary of State for External Affairs, on behalf of the Canadian government, is exploring all possible avenues to break the present deadlock between Israel and the United Nations. If, as the result of negotiations now going on at the general assembly in New York, the United Nations emergency force were given specific duties to perform in the gulf of Aqaba requiring the use of naval forces, the matter would have to be considered by members of the United Nations in the light of any specific request made by the secretary general.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that even Liberal party candidates in western Canada are now joining the mass of western Canadian people in criticizing this particular act, would the Prime Minister not now indicate to this house that he will bring before this current session of parliament amendments to the Indian Act of 1951?


Mr. Speaker, that matter is now before the courts, and in previous cases decisions of the commissioners have been reversed by the courts to which they were submitted. It is quite possible that may happen again in this case. If it does not, there will be a situation that will have to receive serious consideration.

Inquiries of the Ministry ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE


On the orders of the day:
Does the Minister of Justice intend to introduce legislation at this session, or to amend legislation which will come from the other place at this session, in accordance with the joint Senate and House of Commons committee recommendation that corporal punishment be removed as a part of a judicial sentence? If not, is it because he is in disagreement with the recommendation?


The answer to the first question is no. With regard to the second question, it is not because the minister is in disagreement or agreement with the recommendation but because, as I have previously stated in this house, the whole subject matter of probation and remission to which the hon. member for Greenwood referred a moment ago is now under consideration by all the provincial governments and our own government. It was our thought that all matters relating to this subject, including the matter to which my hon. friend from Vancouver East has just referred, would be considered by the federal government with representatives of the provincial governments before new recommendations were brought to parliament.


May I say I was not referring to probation. May I, because it also refers to the Minister of Justice, ask this further question. Can the minister inform the house whether the regulations regarding disciplinary penalties in penitentiaries have been amended so far as corporal punishment is concerned in accordance with the recommendation of the joint committee of the Senate and House of Commons? If not, will they be so changed?


Of a question of this sort, Mr. Speaker, I would have preferred to have notice. My impression is that the present practice in the penitentiaries is in accordance with the recommendations of the committee. If that is not the case, I will make a statement in the house, drawing the attention of hon. members to the extent to which they differ.


On the orders of the day:
May I
ask the Minister of Justice if he can give us, if not today then subsequently, figures showing how many people, particularly young
[Mr. St. Laurent (Quebec East).)
people, are going to prison every month by reason of the fact no progress has been made with regard to the matter of probation which I brought up nearly two years ago?


Mr. Speaker, if my hon. friend is referring to juveniles, as he would denote them, going to penitentiaries, I would remind him that under the Juvenile Delinquents Act all that is necessary for any provincial administration to do is pass a provincial law bringing the operation of its law enforcement system under that act, in which event it would be impossible for any judge in that province to send a juvenile to a penitentiary. Therefore the action that has to be taken in this regard to cure what he has in mind is not a federal action at all but a provincial action.


May I ask a supplementary question. My question was broad. It is true I referred especially to juveniles, but my question included everybody. If the minister chooses to narrow it down-


Order.


-I wish to have the question answered, if not now, later.


I am quite prepared to answer it now. I would answer it in the terms of a statement which I made on January 29, 1957, in reply to a question asked by my hon. friend himself. This is what I said, as reported at page 743 of Hansard:
On July 20 last, shortly after the Fauteux report was made public, I wrote to the provincial attorneys general pointing out that the Fauteux recommendations would require for their implementation action by the parliament of Canada and the provincial legislatures of Canada; and that I therefore thought that the federal and provincial ministers should consider the report in a joint conference to this end.
In their replies to this letter the provincial authorities indicated dates for such a meeting that varied from early in the month of October to as late as mid-January of this year.
Meanwhile, we had been getting ready for such a conference and, in this connection, gathering together all the available relevant data. This proved to be a bigger task than we had anticipated, so on October 18 I wrote to the provincial ministers to suggest that the best way of arriving at an accurate set of comparable figures for both federal and provincial ministers would be to have a meeting in Ottawa of senior federal and provincial officials for the exchange of the necessary statistical information. A meeting of senior federal and provincial officials was accordingly held in Ottawa on November 14 and 15 last, attended by representatives of all of the provinces except two.
I will not go on to detain the house with a repetition of the remainder of my statement, but I indicated that it had now been agreed by the provincial governments and ourselves that we would have a meeting as soon as it was convenient. I indicated the time which

I thought would be convenient and that was acceptable to the provinces. Until that time there would not be any purpose in action being taken in parliament because there would not be anything to bring to this parliament that had received the approval of the provinces.


If the minister will read my question as it will be found in Hansard-


Order.


-he will see that he has not answered it yet.


The hon. member for Halifax.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Transport. Has the government of Nova Scotia submitted plans and recommendations as yet for the proposed highway to the Halifax international airport? If not, is there any way of speeding up the action?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to the first part of the question is that the government of Nova Scotia has not yet submitted plans and specifications for the proposed highway to the Halifax international airport. I would like to tell the house that I have had conversations on this subject with the premier of Nova Scotia and discussions are continuing between the officials of my department and the officials of the highways department in Nova Scotia. We are doing everything possible to expedite a decision.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Does the government intend to take any steps to intervene or mediate in the strike that is holding up construction on the St. Lawrence seaway at the present time?


Mr. Speaker, I think that is a question that might more properly be directed to the Minister of Labour.


May I then direct my question to the Minister of Labour?
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, I shall take the question as notice and bring in a reply as soon as I can.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wonder if the Minister of Labour could bring us up to date on the Polymer Corporation strike situation?


Last week end the mediator and representatives of the two parties concerned held prolonged meetings as a result of which they were able to reach agreements on a number of the questions in dispute, but I must say that the more vital questions were not settled. The parties jointly agreed that they would adjourn until the 22nd of this month, so a meeting is scheduled for tomorrow morning.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the parliamentary assistant to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. It concerns the United States supreme court decision permitting 8,000-odd cubic feet a second to go through the Chicago drainage canal. My question is this: Was that extra flow of water through that drainage scheme discontinued at the end of January?
Mr. Lucien Cardin (Parliamentary Assistant to the Secretary of State for External
Affairs): Mr. Speaker, I am afraid I shall have to take the hon. member's question as notice.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of National Defence. Has the minister's attention been called to the statement of the United States secretary of defence that it is essential to the national security of the United States that newly developed nuclear weapons be incorporated into the American air defence system? If so, can he tell the house if Canada will have

Inquiries of the Ministry access to these new weapons and, if not, will our present equipment be of any material value for defence?


Mr. Speaker, the answer to the first question is that for the time being at least we will not have access to the type of equipment the use of which was announced in the United States, because a statute of that country, as I think is well known, states that United States atomic weapons are not available to other countries. That situation will continue until such time as the act is changed.
Concerning the second question as to whether our weapons will continue to be effective, I would like to point out that the secretary of defence of the United States was very careful to state in his announcement that the new nuclear weapons are supplemental to the tactical weapons that are generally employed. These are not to supplant those weapons but to add strength to them.
I may say that we have been working in close conjunction with the United States in the field to which the hon. gentleman has referred, and that we welcome the advent of new and more effective weapons for our mutual defence and the defence of NATO countries.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask the
Minister of National Defence a supplementary question. In view of reports from Washington to the effect that Canada has agreed to permit United States jet planes with nuclear weapons on board to fly over Canada, can the minister say whether this is correct?


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I should make a short statement on the implications of the United States statement as far as we are concerned. It should be clearly understood that the weapons dealt with in the Washington announcement are to be deployed within the United States. Nevertheless, as we all know, the air defence of Canada is closely related to the air defence of the United States. As a result of this there has been the fullest consultation, as I mentioned, between the two governments concerning the possible use of these new air defence weapons.
The principal weapon about to be brought into use by the United States which has implications for Canada's air defence at the present time is an air to air rocket launched from interceptor type aircraft. Such Canadian interests as may be involved in
[Mr. Cameron (Nanaimo) .1
the use of these weapons have been fully taken into account in the course of the consultations which have taken place between the two governments. As I said earlier, the Canadian government shares the view of the United States government that continuous improvement of the continental air defence system is very essential. It is a fact that the nuclear air defence weapons which have been developed will improve that joint defence capability. It is also clear, I think, that use must be made of the best means at hand to deter and if necessary to repel aggression.
Coming now to the specific question asked by the hon. member, I think it must be noted that the use of the weapons under consideration by the United States, which as .1 have said are supplemental and not to replace existing weapons, will be confined to situations of grave emergency. There is no question of their use in other circumstances, and only in situations of immediate danger would there be any question of aircraft armed with these weapons overflying Canadian territory.
I may say that arrangements have been made for very close consultation in that event; that is, in the event of grave danger or emergency. Canadian authorities have satisfied themselves that the safety hazards involved in the use of these weapons are not great, and that the safety devices to prevent premature or accidental discharge are entirely adequate.


May we take it from that statement that these weapons will not, then, be tested over Canadian territory; in other words, that they are to be brought over Canadian territory only in case of grave emergency?


Yes.


On the orders of the day:
Could the Minister of National Defence inform the house whether a decision has yet been reached to send additional troops to the United Nations emergency force in the form of a reconnaissance unit, which the minister said on February 5 was under discussion?


No, Mr. Speaker. A decision has not yet been taken, though some of these troops are being readied in case the decision is in the affirmative.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to answer a question asked yesterday by the hon. member for Restigouche-Madawaska with regard to the Bellefleur rifle range in New Brunswick. The hon. member asked as to what progress had been made in its construction. In reply I may say that a contract for the construction of the range was awarded in October of last year. A limited amount of work was done prior to the advent of winter, and work on the project will recommence in the spring. It is expected that the range will be completed during the present year.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question of the Minister of Veterans Affairs? Has the minister given any further consideration to the setting up of the veterans affairs committee this session and, if not, can we expect that there will be any upward revision in war veterans allowances and pensions?


Mr. Speaker, both parts of the question are under consideration.


On the orders of the day:
In
view of the statement by the Prime Minister regarding the legislation that is likely to be brought down, I would like to ask him if he would give consideration to introducing legislation to prevent the racketeering that is going on in the lending institutions of this country in view of the tight money policy of the government.


I am unaware that any racketeering is going on in these circles. If the hon. gentleman would be good enough to send me the information on which he must, naturally, be basing the language he used in his question, I will be glad to consider it.


Thank you very much. I will be glad to do so.
Inquiries of the Ministry PIPE LINES


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the
Minister of Finance whether consideration has been given to setting up the committee on privileges and elections to investigate the serious charges with regard to members of parliament purchasing stock in the Trans-Canada Pipe Lines company?


Mr. Speaker, the committee on privileges and elections is, I take it, a standing committee, and this matter might be taken up by the chairman. Certainly as house leader I will be glad to consider the question when I see it in Hansard.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question of the Minister of Finance. Will he give serious consideration, at our request, to the suggestion made by the hon. member for Charlotte (Mr. Stuart), so that the correctness or otherwise of a certain newspaper report of two days ago might be investigated? So far as we are able to ascertain it is an incorrect report.


On the orders of the day:
I want to direct a question to the Minister of Trade and Commerce. Can the minister tell the house by how much the price of natural gas will be increased to the consumer as a result of the large profits made available by Trans-Canada Pipe Lines to some of its officials?


Mr. Speaker, the price of gas to the consumer is a price that has been negotiated by the distributors with the consumers. I understand that it is a very reasonable price. I also think the price to the producers is a reasonable price. I do not know exactly what the hon. gentleman has been referring to, but I hope he does. He has been pretty much at sea about all pipe-line matters since that debate first began.


I think the minister understood quite well the purport of my question. The question is this: Who is going to pay for these large profits made available to the officers of this government-backed comnany?


The consumer.


The hon. gentleman has apparently changed his opinion as to whether this is an economic project or not.

Inquiries of the Ministry I assume he is sure that there will be profits. Had I been as sure, I might have bought some of the stock myself. I did not do so.


I would like to ask a question of the Minister of Trade and Commerce supplementary to the question asked by the hon. member for Calgary North. Can the minister tell us how many years ago the Union Gas Company signed its original contract with Trans-Canada Pipe Lines?


From memory, I would say about two years ago. I would be glad to look it up, and if I am wrong I will correct this statement.


On the orders of the day:
Would the Minister of Transport care to comment on the report that the S. S. William Carson, having now been refitted, will be used as a recreation centre for Canadian troops serving with the United Nations emergency force in the Middle East?


I had always thought that the William Carson was a recreation centre for the hon. gentleman who has just spoken.


A supplementary question. Does the minister not think that his flippant answer indicates the careless way in which this most important matter has been dealt with?


Mr. Speaker, I think the answer I have just made indicates, in effect, that without the William Carson the Progressive Conservative party in the house would not have had anything to talk about in the last two years.


On the orders of the day:
In view of the recent statement by the Prime Minister, can the Postmaster General inform the house whether the government has reached a decision regarding the resumption of twice daily mail delivery and, if so, what is the decision?


Not yet, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. In view of the statement the Prime Minister just made regarding the possibility of legislation with respect to Canadian vessel construction, will the minister tell the house if the report of the royal commission on coastal shipping will be brought down this session and if not, why not?


Mr. Speaker, I am unable offhand to see the connection between the two matters-


There is a very definite connection.


-to which the hon. gentleman has just referred. The legislation to which the Prime Minister referred was covered by his own statement. So far as the report of the royal commission on coastal trade is concerned, all I can say is that I have not yet received the report, and I shall not undertake to bring it down before it is received.


Does the minister deny that there is any connection between the royal commission on shipping and the shipbuilding industry itself which will be affected by this statement and the proposed legislation?


I am afraid I cannot follow the convolutions of the hon. gentleman's arguments, and I do not see what the connection is between the three matters to which he has now referred.


That is why you are holding up the report.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in view of what I consider an adequate and proper lapse of time since I last asked this question I now redirect it to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. I apologize for not giving him notice, but I presume a great deal of preparation would not be required as the answer will be yes or no. Can the minister now inform the house when the representatives of Canada and the United States will

commence discussions with respect to the problems of the Columbia and other international rivers?


Our embassy in Washington has been pressing the United States authorities to obtain a reply, and I hope to get it some time next week.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, before orders of
the day are proceeded with I should like to answer a question asked yesterday by the hon. member for Wetaskiwin regarding studies of bacon grading. Because of both producer and consumer interest in the quality of Canadian bacon, the department has been conducting a series of studies for the purpose of learning consumer preferences on certain points of bacon quality. For the purpose of this study tentative grade standards have been established, and with the co-operation * of processors and retailers bacon graded according to these standards has been offered for sale in a group of retail stores in three Canadian cities.
The first study was undertaken in three Montreal food markets during the five-month period January to May of last year. Similar projects are now in progress at Edmonton and Toronto.
In the studies to date the price at which the graded bacon has been offered to the public has been higher than the price being charged for the regular commercial brands. There are definite indications of a consumer preference for at least a limited quantity of specially selected lean bacon. The studies are being continued, and it is proposed to obtain further response from consumers before reaching conclusions.


I should like to ask a supplementary question. Can the minister tell us whether any of the new breed of hogs started at Lacombe-I think they call them Lacombe hogs-have been used in the experiment?


I do not know that they
have been used in that experiment, but some of these hogs were shipped to Brandon to be shown there at the time of the show so breeders could become better acquainted with them.


Were they Yorkshire hogs?
Municipal Grants Act


No, they were not Yorkshire hogs. They were the new hog that is produced at Lacombe.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question
to the Minister of Trade and Commerce supplementary to the question and answer of yesterday regarding the visit to Canada of three representatives of the Euratom group. Can the minister say whether Canada is negotiating for the sale of uranium to any other countries apart from the United Kingdom?


Mr. Speaker, my statement indicated that we were prepared to sell to a list of friendly countries small quantities of uranium to meet their present requirements. That offer was made to every friendly country with which Canada has trade negotiations. As far as I know, no particular negotiations are under way. If a friendly country wants to buy a small amount of uranium the price is fixed and we are prepared to sell. I am not aware of any negotiation now under way.


May I ask a supplementary question. Did Canada agree to make any uranium available to any countries in the Pacific area, Japan, New Zealand or Australia?


Australia has its own production of uranium. I think we are considering an agreement with Japan to ship a certain quantity of uranium concentrates to that country for their experimental purposes. I think it is ten tons of material being discussed.


The house resumed, from Wednesday, February 20, consideration in committee of the following resolution-Mr. Harris-Mr. Robinson (Simcoe East) in the chair:
That it is expedient to bring in a measure to extend the benefits of the Municipal Grants Act and to provide for certain changes in connection with the administration of the act.
Mr. Chairman, yesterday afternoon I indicated that we felt that this measure was going in the right direction, though going very, very slowly. The minister merely put his toe in the water, but he

Municipal Grants Act certainly did not show any indication whatever of being ready to take a swim. Indeed, it reminds me of a race between a snail and a tortoise.
I referred particularly to crown corporations, because it seemed to me there had been a direct failure to follow the clear statement made in 1952 by the then minister of finance in which he indicated that crown corporations were to pay their way. I read an item from the press indicating that some corporations had paid the full equivalent, some had paid nothing and others had gone part but not all the way.


Would my hon. friend permit me to interrupt? I read Hansard this morning and what the then minister of finance said at that time, and it did not seem to me there was anything in it with respect to the payment of municipal taxes. If I did not see it and it is there I wish my hon. friend would refer to it. I think the reference was to corporation income taxes to be paid to the federal government.


I see the reference to corporation taxes, but I still maintain that the reasoning used, which was that crown corporations should behave like other corporations, is sound. Certainly I doubt whether the minister will argue that crown corporations which pay income tax on the ground that they must be competing on a level with others in the same kind of business, should not do the same with regard to municipal taxes. I feel that the minister would find it difficult to suggest that they should not pay their municipal taxes, but perhaps we can argue that matter further when we come to the second reading of the bill. It is exactly the same principle as far as I can see.
What we are facing here, it seems to me, is quite clear. We are facing not merely a matter of a few million dollars more or less which the dominion will pay to the municipalities-although that is important-but we really are facing or should be facing the question of the vast new responsibilities which the municipalities have assumed and have been obliged to assume in this brave new world. Indeed I think the minister will be forced to agree with certain quotations which I shall give this afternoon, which will make it perfectly clear that the municipalities are in serious difficulties, that a situation has overtaken them in which they have not the means of protecting themselves although the two senior levels of government have the means, the provinces partially and the dominion wholly, because the dominion, sitting at the top of the heap, gets the lion's share.
I want to point out that we as a party have been hammering at this question for years.

I want to put on the record a few short quotations because I think it is important that I do so. On April 30, 1956, a resolution was moved by Mr. Drew, seconded by Mr. Rowe, as follows:
That all the words after "that" to the end of the question be deleted and the following substituted therefor:
" "This house is of the opinion that immediate consideration should be given to measures to assist the municipalities of Canada to meet their mounting financial problems, and in particular the immediate introduction of legislation which will provide for the exemption of all municipal councils and school boards from the payment of excise taxes including the 10 per cent sales tax, and which will further provide for payment to municipalities of full municipal taxes."
What I want to stress there is that as long ago as that we were talking about measures to assist municipalities to meet their "mounting financial problems". That was the broad consideration. Now I read from a resolution at the annual meeting of our party in 1954:
In order to enable provinces, municipal councils and school boards to discharge their constitutional functions,
(a) A more equitable distribution of the tax dollar as between the different taxing authorities in Canada . . .
Then it refers to exemption from taxes % and, third, legislation providing for taxation of all federal property. Finally in 1953, in the general election manifesto we find this:
We will introduce legislation exempting municipal councils and school boards from sales tax and excise tax . . .
And so on. I wanted to refer to that in order to put our own record clearly. Time forbids my going at any length into the representations the government have had from municipal authorities. They have been bombarded over the years, but precious little has come from it. I want to refer to an extract from what I imagine is the latest representation from the Association of Ontario Mayors and Reeves to the government of the province of Ontario and to the government of Canada. This was presented only last month in January, 1957.


I hope this is on municipal
taxes.


I did not hear the minister.


I hope this is on the bill and not on any other point.


It seems to me that the bill is a partial treatment of a pressing problem. Quite frankly, I have been dealing with it somewhat on that basis. There is no good in giving the municipality a mere mouthful when what they need is a meal. When this matter has been discussed in the past I think we have been able to deal with the problem as a whole. When I say, as I do, that this

is just a sop being thrown to the municipalities, I can only support that statement by having some chance to point out the magnitude of the problem.
I want to read briefly what the Ontario Association had to say. This is to be found at page 6 of the presentation entitled "The case for the municipalities of Ontario". They speak about costs of non-basic services and I want to refer to that matter, and then they say this:
The municipalities, in fact, became the deficit governments with never enough resources to meet both basic and imposed non-basic services.
Then on page 24 they say this:
To bring about an equitable adjustment of responsibility for services, the association has defined the services which are basically municipal in nature and which should be provided for by municipal governments as follows: . . .
I am going to skip part of that. I am going to skip the part which refers to basic municipal services and go on to what they call non-basic municipal services which have been imposed on them and which are the great reason for their present difficulties: I quote again.
The non-basic municipal services, having a wider than local scope and jurisdiction, or being of general benefit to the citizens at large, which this association contends should be financed solely by sources of general revenue in the control of the provincial and federal governments, are defined as follows:
Indigent relief.
Public welfare and social services (including all hospitalization and institutional costs now borne by municipalities),
Education,
Subsidization of housing,
Civil defence,
Administration of justice,
Provincial highways through municipalities	 In view of the most inequitable financial situation which exists at the municipal level of government and the urgent needs of municipalities, this association contends that the federal government should make greater contributions from its vast revenues for the alleviation of the municipal position.	1
I say no more about the representations which have been made by the municipalities, though there are several tomes containing them and one might read on and on. The municipalities were finally permitted to sit in on a conference between the dominion and the provinces but while that may have pleased them or may even have improved their social position by associating with federal ministers, I doubt if it did anything to improve their material position. Over the years it seems as though the municipalities have spoken to deaf ears.
I am now going to introduce one or two pieces of evidence from outside the municipalities. I hope the minister and his colleagues will pay more attention to these voices. I want to quote from Mr. J. Harvey Perry, from
Municipal Grants Act a publication called "Taxes, Tariffs and Subsidies" at page 47. Mr. Perry, of course* is well known here. At one time he was a highly valued public servant in the dominion service. This is what he has to say:
"The mounting cost of services which by tradition have devolved on the local governments (social welfare, education, roads, etc.), and the increasingly apparent anomalies of tax administration in. a multitude of small self-contained areas, are pressures forcing the gravitation of financial responsibility to senior levels of government. This trend is no doubt stimulated by chronic but heartfelt complaints from property owners that the burden of the property tax is becoming intolerable, that assessment methods are antiquated, and their application unfair, and so on. Municipal councils, always sensitive to this cry, have pleaded for a larger share of the tax pie in the post-war period rather than for an authorization of new tax sources."
Then I wish to quote from a new voice which has been heard only recently and which has apparently not been received with as universal acceptance as we might have expected from the government. I refer to the Gordon commission.
I want to read very briefly what they have to say. I hope when the minister makes his reply he will tell us whether or not these figures are right, and whether the arguments are right, because if he thinks they are right then I do not see how he can possibly go along with the present situation without doing something. We do not seem to me to be acting our age if we leave these things as they are.
I made a suggestion the other day about the suppliant position of provinces and municipalities. In that connection I once heard a doctor say that the way for doctors to succeed was "fo keep 'em sick, and keep 'em happy and go to see them every day". Now, facing a senior member of the profession right here, I apologize for saying that. It was only a suggestion made by one doctor who, I am sure, was not at the height of the profession. But sometimes I wonder whether the federal authorities feel it is not entirely unpleasant for them to have the provinces and municipalities come to them in lowly guise asking for little hand-outs here and there. It seems to me that is what they are getting. "Humble suppliants", my colleague the hon. member for Eglinton suggests, and I accept his words.
Here is what the Gordon report has to say, and I must say the figures are staggering. However, people are getting used to high figures these days. On page 94 the report states:
Social capital requirements over the next two or three decades will be the greater because in many Canadian cities and towns these facilities are at present inadequate. If they are to be brought up to standards that are nowadays considered reasonably satisfactory, and if provision

Municipal Grants Act
is to be made lor Increasing population, large sums of money will have to be spent. Although it is difficult to estimate the total expenditures that may have to be made over the next 25 years on housing and the various forms of social capital, they may well amount to nearly $100 billion at present prices.
I find it difficult to contemplate $100 billion, but I know it would be easy for the minister. I continue:
Expenditures of this magnitude, in our opinion, are well within the capacity of the Canadian economy to sustain, if it expands at the rate we anticipate. But if the task is to be accomplished in a manner that will best serve the welfare of the Canadian people, the problems of planning of jurisdiction and of finance will require more attention from all levels of government and from citizens generally than they have usually been able to command in the past.
I feel that is an understatement, and I do submit it to the minister with confidence that he will deal with it seriously. Of course we all know the answer that has been made to date to us on this side of the house. It is not, to my way of thinking, a very good answer, although the Prime Minister especially seems to like it. The answer is, "did we not win the last election?" Yes, they won the last election after their fashion. Nevertheless, the people who elected them expected them to behave as serious citizens, and I am suggesting that if they are going to behave as serious citizens they should take very seriously these statements put before them, opinions from competent people, and act accordingly.
I say again to the minister, are these serious statements? He will have a good many figures put before him during the course of this debate, and the question is, what should be done about them? It seems to me a serious inquiry is clearly indicated. One almost hesitates to use the words "royal commission" because I think the term royal commission has become somewhat shopworn. I am not tying myself to a royal commission. Perhaps what we need is a parliamentary committee, though I am afraid parliamentary committees will not have an exactly undivided mind on these things in the next few weeks. I have an open mind on the question, as to how it should be done, but I have not an open mind on the necessity of having this considered in a way that it has not been considered. After all, the municipalities have been kept outside the door. They were let in once on sufferance and they were pleased with that, I think, but the results have been trivial enough.
I say, therefore, we should act our age and do something to have this matter really investigated, not merely the piffling question of whether the federal government should pay taxes which they now evidently have
[Mr. Macdonnell.l
accepted. We should consider seriously this particular question, because if we go on denying it we seem to be like children building castles in the sand; the tide will come in and flatten them out.


Municipal Grants Act constitutionally, to the full taxation revenue from federal property within their boundaries.
In view of the minister's contention it is difficult to understand why he has not given any indication of his intention to change one section of the act as it now stands in order to have this taxation apply to the cost of sidewalks and roads. If the minister is prepared to accept municipal taxation on federal property, why is he not prepared to accept taxation on sidewalks and ro