I have the honour to present the first report of the standing committee on industrial relations. With unanimous consent of the house I move:
That the first report of the standing committee on industrial relations presented this day be now concurred in.


I do not want to divide the house on this matter because it has been discussed at length, but for the same reasons we stated earlier we do not care to decide right away that we should sit while the house is in session. I oppose the motion.


The hon member is not opposing the motion being put today? The hon. member is not withholding unanimous consent, but is stating his objection to the motion? Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


On division.


Motion agreed to, on division.
have the honour to present, in English and French, the first report of the standing committee on veterans affairs. By unanimous consent I move:
That the first report of the standing committee on veterans affairs, presented this day, be now concurred in.


By unanimous consent Mr. Dinsdale, seconded by Mr. Montgomery, moves that the first report of the standing committee on veterans affairs presented this day be now concurred in.


Mr. Speaker, we take the same exception to this procedure with respect to obtaining permission to sit while the house is sitting as we have taken to the previous reports from committees. But in order to retain the nonpartisan approach in this house to the
extremely important question of veterans affairs we will suffer in silence on this occasion.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to raise a point of order here. You have stated in connection with this motion and previous ones that by unanimous consent the motion is made, and you have proceeded to read the motion. Unanimous consent is something that is given or withheld by the hon. members of the house, and it seems to me that the right to withhold unanimous consent should not be taken away. It seems to me that a request should be made for unanimous consent. So there will be no confusion at the moment in the mind of anyone, Mr. Speaker, I may say that I am quite prepared to give unanimous consent on this occasion. However, I do not like the practice being adopted of taking away our right to withhold unanimous consent.


On the point of order may I say that each member who has asked leave to make a motion has prefaced his motion by the expression "by unanimous consent". If any member objects, of course the motion cannot be proceeded with. Also, in putting the motion I have indicated that it must be by unanimous consent. As I understand it, unanimous consent is given to the motion being put but of course that does not mean that the motion is carried by unanimous consent. The motion, in the last two cases, has been carried on division. Is that the point to which the hon. member refers?


No, Mr. Speaker. My point was that neither the person moving the motion in each instance today nor Mr. Speaker-and I submit this with deference -asked for unanimous consent. Your Honour stated as a statement of fact, "by unanimous consent" and the mover in one case used the word "by" and in the other the word "with".


It might be more correct to separate the stages. When I state "by unanimous consent" and hear no objection, I proceed to put the motion. Does the house give unanimous consent that this motion be now proceeded with?


Agreed.
1080	HOUSE OF
Tabling of Reply Respecting Peace Treaty


Agreed. Mr. Dinsdale, seconded by Mr. Montgomery moves:
That the first report of the standing committee on veterans affairs presented this day be now concurred in.
Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


On division.


Motion agreed to, on division.
I have the honour to present the first report of the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines. By unanimous consent of the house I move:
That the first report of the standing committee on railways, canals and telegraph lines presented this day be now concurred in.


Does the house give unanimous consent that this motion be proceeded with?


Agreed.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


On division.


Motion agreed to, on division.
I have the honour to present the first report of the standing committee on marine and fisheries. By unanimous consent of the house I move:
That the first report of the standing committee on marine and fisheries presented this day be now concurred in.


Does the house give unanimous consent that this motion be proceeded with?


Agreed.


Is it the pleasure of the house to adopt the motion?


On division.


Motion agreed to, on division.
Mr. Speaker, members of the house will recall that on February 9 I tabled the text of the Soviet note of January 10 to the Canadian government proposing 

a conference of 28 countries, including Canada, to consider a peace treaty with Germany. At the same time I tabled a copy of the draft peace treaty which accompanied the Soviet note.
I now inform the house that the Canadian reply to the Soviet government's note was today handed to the Soviet embassy in Ottawa, and our ambassador to the U.S.S.R. was instructed to deliver a copy to the appropriate authorities in Moscow.
I take this opportunity of tabling copies of the Canadian reply. As members will note, it reflects the government's view that the many questions raised in the Soviet note could most profitably be examined at a conference on all aspects of the German question, in which the four powers who have special responsibilities for Germany, the U.S.S.R., France, the United Kingdom and the United States, would participate. Until the results of this four power meeting have been assessed it would not be useful to take a decision about the holding of a large peace treaty conference attended by Canada and other participants in the war against Germany.
As reported in the press, Mr. Speaker, the governments of France, the United Kingdom, the United States and West Germany yesterday sent their replies to the Soviet goverment's notes of January 10 proposing a German peace treaty. These replies were considered last week in the NATO council, where the attitudes of other NATO members to the Soviet proposals were also discussed. Although differing somewhat in detail, the replies of the four powers are essentially at one in proposing a meeting in the spring of the foreign ministers of the U.S.S.R., France, the United Kingdom and the United States to discuss all aspects of the German problem.


Might I ask the minister whether the four power reply to which he has just referred was considered by the members of the NATO council before it was agreed upon?


The answer is yes, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the government has been kept informed of the negotiations between the United Kingdom and the Greek and Turkish governments for an agreed

and peaceful settlement of the Cyprus question, which I am sure everyone in this house earnestly hopes will be achieved; and would the Prime Minister be in a position to make a statement in regard to the negotiations?


Mr. Speaker, the Leader of the Opposition gave me notice of this question, which enables me to give an immediate reply. I cannot, of course, report on the negotiations for an agreed and peaceful solution to the Cyprus question at this time, in view of the fact that the formal tripartite conference seeking to achieve such a solution began its deliberations in London only this morning.
Reports have been received of the discussions which the prime ministers of Greece and Turkey concluded at Zurich last week. They indicate that progress appears to have been made toward a solution of the problem, that there has been a favourable reaction to the Zurich talks in the United Kingdom and Cyprus, and that the results of these talks have at least been accepted as a basis for negotiation at the conference in London. The Canadian government and its partners in the NATO council are hopeful that the negotiations being conducted in London will lead to a just and lasting solution to this complex problem which involves three of our NATO allies.
Today, according to a dispatch, the British foreign secretary, Right Hon. Selwyn Lloyd, announced that there were four factors which are considered by the British government to be basic to any solution of this problem namely: The strategic interests of the United Kingdom in Cyprus must be safeguarded in such a way that they cannot be compromised in the future; the two Cypriot communities must be reconciled; Greco-Turkish friendship must be re-established; the Cypriots themselves must be given the opportunity to establish their own institutions.
Further than that I do not think it is possible to go at this moment.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Northern Affairs and National Resources. My question is based on a statement made by the chief engineer of the New Brunswick Power Commission, as reported in the Saint John Telegraph-Journal of February 12, to the effect that the power commission
Inquiries of the Ministry would save more than $500,000 a year by using oil rather than coal in the East Saint John thermal power plant.
In the light of this statement by the chief engineer, can the minister now reiterate the assurance given to the house last July 1 by the Minister of National Revenue and repeated in the mines, forests and waters committee by the Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys on July 30 last, that coal would definitely be used in the new thermal power plants built in the maritime provinces, including the East Saint John plant?


I believe this policy of the government was made abundantly clear during the last session, and as yet there has been no change in that policy.


A supplementary question. In view of the minister's statement that there has been no change in that policy, can he explain to this house what is causing the delay in signing a specific agreement with the province of New Brunswick with regard to the East Saint John thermal plant?


The water in the river has been very high this year, and the amount of power produced by the first two units of the Beechwood plant has been so large that the province of New Brunswick saved money by not going ahead with the original plan for the thermal plant at Saint John.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Secretary of State for External Affairs. In view of the statements by the Secretary of State for External Affairs on several recent occasions in the House of Commons to the effect that officials of various government departments are studying the terms of bill
H.R.l. now before the House of Representatives in Washington, may I inquire if any further steps have been taken in relation to that bill by the Canadian government.


Officials have substantially completed their study of the purport and contents of the bill known as H.R.l., and I can now inform the house that we are preparing for presentation to the state department in Washington a note of protest against the implementation of this bill.

Inquiries of the Ministry COMBINES INVESTIGATION ACT


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct to the Minister of Justice, a question of primary importance to the farmers of Canada.
In view of the rapid development of so-called vertical integration, particularly in the production of poultry and dairy products, as a result of financial assistance and marketing facilities provided by packing houses and feed companies to these producers, and in view of the fact that this trend threatens to develop into a monopoly of production markets with prices of these commodities controlled by packing and feed companies, would the minister have a study made of this situation in order to make certain that no violation of the Combines Investigation Act is involved?


The hon. gentleman was good enough to send me notice of this question. However, owing to other engagements I did not receive it until just before I came into the house. I must say that while a quick study of the implications of the question would indicate that it is one of some importance, the hon. gentleman asks me to take so many "views" that I am unable in the time available on orders of the day to discuss the matter in sufficient detail to give him the kind of answer that his question involves.
I also feel that perhaps I should bring to the attention of the hon. gentleman and of all hon. members opposite the fact that this is the sort of question which does not permit of the kind of reply which should be made on the orders of the day. Indeed, like many questions which have been addressed to us lately, it contains matters of conclusion and opinion which evoke not an answer but a debate.
I would suggest that hon. gentlemen opposite, instead of "viewing" all the things that they do in their questions, should instead view citations 171 to 179 inclusive in Beau-chesne's 4th edition and see how they should frame proper questions on orders of the day.


Mr. Speaker, after that lecture from the Minister of Justice-


Which was long overdue.


-I shall do my best to so frame my question as not to have it offend against the rules of the house, although-


Order. I do not know whether the hon. member for Laurier proposes to pursue the point of order raised by the Minister of Justice. If he does I shall be glad to hear him.


No, Mr. Speaker, I propose to ask a question, but I was prefacing my question with the remarks I have just made. I was going on to say that the Minister of Justice was impinging upon the rights of Mr. Speaker.


Mr. Speaker, may I ask a question?


Order. Before I entertain any supplementary question by the hon. member who asked this question, I should like to ask if any hon. member disagrees with the view that this question is out of order?


Mr. Speaker, I was just wondering if you yourself did not feel you should raise a question of privilege over the usurpation of your functions by the Minister of Justice.


The hon. member for Kootenay West has a supplementary question.


Mr. Speaker, after having been duly admonished I should like to ask a supplementary question. Does the minister realize that my views represent statements of fact, and would he give consideration to those facts when he has the leisure and time to do so?


Mr. Speaker, that is exactly the point I was making. The hon. gentleman has stated as matters of fact propositions which I do not at the moment dispute or deny; but before I could answer the question on the basis on which he has put it it would be necessary to enter into a debate as to its implications. That is why I suggest this is not the type of question to ask on orders of the day.


Order. You are not


I should like to know whether the minister is taking this question as notice or whether he is objecting to answering the question as being out of order.


Take it as notice.


Well, Mr. Speaker, I could take it as notice, but my point is that it is not the kind of question that should be asked on orders of the day.


Then you should raise a point of order.


If hon. members opposite wish me formally to raise a point of order I shall be glad to do so, and I shall refer them

to some of the citations in Beauchesne, specifically to citations 171 to 179.


Order.


Hon. gentlemen asked for this. If they do not like it they should not have asked for it.


We love it.


Now you are in order.


I am always in order, unlike the hon. member for Bonavista-Twillingate.
You will note, Mr. Speaker, that citation No. 171 contains certain rules which must not be transgressed in putting a question. I shall refer to only certain of the rules. The citation reads in part:
A question oral or written must not:
(f)	contain an expression of opinion.
This whole question contains expressions of opinions. I continue:
(g)	be hypothetical.
(h)	contain inferences.
(i)	contain imputations.
(j)	be framed so as to suggest its own answer.
(s) embody a series of questions which should
be moved for an address or order.
(w) raise a matter of policy too large to be dealt with in the limits of an answer to a question.
I submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that this question clearly transgresses all these points in the citation, but particularly the last one. I would refer hon. gentlemen opposite, because I know that Your Honour knows this, to citation 173, which contains the following passage:
The principle on which the practice has been tolerated in past years should be respected, that is, the reading of long series of questions elaborately prepared is not to be allowed on the orders of the day being called.
There are at least three separate "views" in this question. I would also refer hon. gentlemen opposite to citation 174 referring to a question:
On the 27th May, 1936, a member with the intention of addressing a question to a minister, began to give some explanation about the alleged danger of making a certain mineral area dependent upon the plans of some smelter's company. The Speaker interrupted him and said: "Order. The honourable member ought to understand that he cannot make a speech in asking a question."
I submit to you, Mr. Speaker, that that is-


Thank you for the lecture.


-a short selection of some of the ways in which questions on the orders of the day have been asked by hon. members opposite, in each case transgressing the rules of the house.


Thank you.
Inquiries of the Ministry


On the point of order, Mr. Speaker, may I say that we on this side have complete confidence in your ability to decide whether or not a question is in order.


So as not to shatter that confidence immediately, I shall give consideration to this matter and make my ruling tomorrow.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I shall try not to delay the passing of the supplementary estimates, as the Minister of Justice did, in asking a question which I am sure is in order. It is directed to the Minister of Labour. I would ask the minister if he has anything to report on the position of the negotiations between the unions representing the 1,300 employees of the C.B.C. and the C.B.C.


No, Mr. Speaker, I have not.


May I direct that same question, in the absence of the Minister of National Revenue, to the Acting Minister of National Revenue.


The position is this. There was a mass meeting of the strikers on Sunday, and there is to be a meeting this afternoon between the C.B.C. and representatives of the strikers.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to address a question to the Minister of Labour. Is the minister considering the advisability of revising certain enactments included in the labour legislation of Canada?
(Text):


Mr. Speaker, in answer to that question I wish to inform the hon. member that organizations interested in the act have, at my request, submitted certain suggestions which are now being studied in the Department of Labour as possible amendments to the Industrial Relations and Disputes Investigation Act.

Inquiries of the Ministry


On the orders of the day:
I should like to address a question to the Minister of Justice. Will the minister comment on reports that his department is taking steps with relation to section 37 of the Judges Act to curb or stop judges from serving as conciliators in labour disputes?


Mr. Speaker, no legislation is contemplated at this session with regard to that matter. I have expressed to various interested persons the concern of the government with respect to the amount of time that judges are sometimes called upon to serve off the bench on extrajudicial matters. No decision has been reached, and in view of the complicated nature of the situation and the important problem to be solved it will probably be some time before any definite steps are taken.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Public Works I wish to ask the Prime Minister a question. Can the Prime Minister confirm the announcement carried in Fort William and Port Arthur newspapers of February 16 and made by George Wardrope, M.P.P. for Port Arthur that the Canadian Car plant in Fort William will not close but will receive a tremendous portion of government contracts?


Order. Having been recently referred to citation 171 of Beauchesne, I am reminded by the hon. member's question that it is not according to the rules to cite a statement from a newspaper and ask a minister whether or not it is true. If his question is limited to that, it is not in order.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Minister of Labour whether, in view of the D.B.S. unemployment figures published yesterday, he can tell the house, pursuant to the observations made by members of the government two weeks ago, when we may be expected to deal with the amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act.


Mr. Speaker, amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act do not provide jobs for the unemployed. At the moment we have an item of $15 million in the supplementary estimates which we hope to put through the house so we may be able to recompense the municipalities through the provinces for our share of direct payroll costs.


Is the Minister of Labour not aware that while unemployment insurance assistance does not provide jobs it will provide relief and maintenance for many thousands of people who are out of work?


Mr. Speaker, I am very much aware of that fact. With that in mind the government extended seasonal benefits for an additional two months last session and then an additional six weeks, and the two months extension is now in effect permanently.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask
the Secretary of State for External Affairs if he is in a position to tell the house when we may expect to have the opportunity to debate external affairs? The house has now been sitting for a little over a month, and perhaps the minister could give some indication of the government's intention with regard to the business of the house in that particular.


Such a matter is left to the house leader. I can say that the acceleration of that debate will depend on the prolixity of discussion on the matters coming before the house.


Would the minister not regard my question as one that was put to him in the friendliest terms? Would he, in view of the importance of this matter, think it worth while to discuss the matter with the house leader or possibly with the Prime Minister, whose interest in these matters is understood to be paramount?


On the orders of the day:
May I
direct a question to either the Minister of Transport or the Secretary of State for External Affairs; I would think it concerns both departments. It has to do with an article which appeared in the Financial Post of

February 13 in which Canadian Pacific Air Lines is reported as stating that it must give up its air route to Australia unless the agreement with Australia is renewed. The article goes on to state that Canada has nothing to offer Australia-


Order.


-following the negotiations that have taken place. In view of this statement, which is a rather serious one having to do with a commonwealth country, has the minister any comment to make?


Mr. Speaker, on February 6 I informed the house that the service that had been prevailing between Australia and Canada in respect to air flights had been extended from February 10 to March 11, and I assured the house at that time that Canada was pressing for a continuation of that service. The air agreement between Canada and Australia was signed at Ottawa on June 11, 1946 and it provides for direct air services oetween the two countries. From time to time discussions have taken place as to the frequency and capacity of flights for this direct air service. The frequencies are controlled by licences issued under the agreement by the aeronautical authorities of both countries, and the air agreement has been interpreted somewhat differently in this regard by Canada and Australia.
As I informed the house on February 6, discussions are now taking place with Australia to resolve these licensing difficulties, and every effort will be made by the government to maintain reasonable conditions for the Canadian air carrier operating over this route.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I had a question for the Minister of Public Works but in his absence perhaps I might direct it to the Prime Minister. Because of the importance of the Moosonee harbour project to the future development of Canada, and northern Ontario in particular, can the Prime Minister say whether an agreement respecting this development has been reached with the government of Ontario? If not, will he comment on the progress of these negotiations?


Mr. Speaker, I realize the great importance to the province of Ontario of the establishment of this port. I can add nothing
Supply-Labour
to what has already been said in that connection. No agreement has been entered into.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Can the minister give us any information on negotiations with United States officials over protests by that country respecting the policy of her department to enforce direct entry of European immigrants into Canada?


Mr. Speaker, this matter has received a considerable amount of consideration by the department. I was under the impression that the last conference we had with the officials concerned had been amicably concluded. That conference was some months ago. If something else has occurred since that time I would be glad to secure a further report for my hon. friend.


My question has reference to a meeting that was held a week ago today. The United States comment arising from that meeting was to the effect that the Canadian proposal is thoroughly impractical. I wonder if the minister would check and see if that was the reaction of United States officials?


I have already said I would be glad to get a report on that matter.

The house in committee of supply, Mr. Rea in the chair.


709. Payments to a province during 1958-59 and 1959-60 fiscal years in accordance with an agreement entered into by the government of Canada and the province, with the approval of the governor in council, that provides for contributions by the government of Canada of amounts not exceeding one half of the cost of labour incurred in the period from the 1st day of December, 1958, to the 30th day of April, 1959, on winter work projects in municipalities as contemplated by the agreement, $15,000,000.
Mr. Chairman, when last we had this item before us I was indicating-


Order. I wonder if those members who are leaving the house would please do so quietly so we may hear the hon. member who has the floor.


I was indicating on Friday of last week, when our consideration of this item was interrupted, that in my opinion

Supply-Labour
there are two serious national economic issues lacing us at this time. One is the matter of inflation, and the other is the matter of unemployment. I believe that is fairly well recognized in all parts of the house. We have not yet heard the government's program to deal with the matter of inflation. However, we hope to hear of that at the time the budget is presented.
We have here an indication that the program for dealing with unemployment is very limited indeed. The very name by which this matter is commonly known is an indication of the limited nature of the program that is being offered, because it is commonly referred to as the winter works program. Unemployment in Canada at the present time is much more serious than something that would be taken care of by merely a winter works program. We need a more basic solution than that.
However, even though this is the only specific solution being offered at this time, we in this group will not hesitate to support the vote of $15 million here requested. We feel that this program, limited though it is, would have been much more effective had it been offered to the provinces and to the municipalities much earlier. We regret also that the terms limit participation by the federal government in this relief project to a period of only five months of the year. We know from all indications, and especially in the light of the figures that were revealed only yesterday, that we will have a serious unemployment problem in the month of May, at which time this program will have ended.
We regret that the program is not extensive enough, and is very limited in the number and type of projects that can be included. We realize that the number of unemployed who are going to receive help, who are going to be supplied with employment under this measure, is a very small portion of the hundreds of thousands who are actually unemployed. We realize that this measure meets only to a small degree the larger needs of municipalities which they are hoping to meet by participation in this program.
Looking at the amount of money asked for, Mr. Chairman, and doing a little arithmetic of our own, we find that we are being asked for $15 million to supply assistance for five months. This means $3 million per month. The expectation of the minister is that normal wages are going to be paid, at least normal wages, and I am very pleased to note that he made mention of that. If we assume that $300 per month will be paid for the five months period, according to my arithmetic that only gives employment to about 10,000 men in Canada. If you have $15 million

divided by five and divided by $300 per month, you arrive at 10,000 men employed.
I fail to reconcile that with the very hopeful prediction of the minister last week when he indicated that with only half the money used thus far he was already assured of 22,712 men being employed. I hope the minister will at some later point be able to reconcile the great variation that exists between dividing $15 million by five, divided by $300 per month, resulting in 10,000 men being given assistance, and his statement. The minister told us that with apparently only half the expected projects in yet, and with only half the money being used, he already arrives at a figure twice as large as the one at which I arrived.
If we provide employment to 10,000 men of the 500,000 who are unemployed, we are only assisting 2 per cent of the unemployed of Canada. Even if the minister's prediction is borne out, and for every man given employment on-site there will be three men given employment off-site, we would only be giving assistance to about 8 per cent of the unemployed of Canada.
One of our major complaints about this program is that it involves a heavy and costly burden on our municipalities. There have been so many estimates made the portion of these projects which consists of labour costs that one finds it difficult to arrive at a decision. The minister gave us an estimate of some 38 per cent. I do not know what kind of a hat that particular forecast was grabbed from, but from the information I have been able to obtain from municipal officers in many parts of Canada, labour costs on these winter works projects will run from a low of 2J per cent to a high of 12 per cent.
When we consider that this offer means that Ottawa will pay only one-half the cost of labour, it means that the labour cost involved that Ottawa will pay in relation to the cost of the undertaking as a whole is somewhere from 1.25 per cent of the cost to a high of 6.25 per cent. To take the smaller figure, with $15 million on the part of the federal government this means that our municipalities, if they wish to take full advantage of this offer, will be obliged to expend the sum of $1,170 million; or even if we take the more optimistic forecast, namely that one eighth of the cost of these projects is labour content, then for the $15 million that Ottawa is willing to spend or is prepared to spend, our municipalities will be obliged to spend $210 million.
If these figures are anywhere nearly accurate, Mr. Chairman, then I must say at

this time that even the old municipal improvements assistance act which was instituted in the hungry thirties by a former government was of far greater value to the municipalities, both as a relief of unemployment measure and also as a local improvement measure, than this present winter works program.
I must say this. What is $15 million of an investment by this federal government when we consider the fantastic loss to the national wealth in having half a million people unemployed even for one day? In one day we lose $6 million of wealth as the result of half a million people being unemployed. If we keep half a million Canadians unemployed for the five months to which this item refers, then the national economy will have lost $600 million of wealth. Yet we have in office a government which in its efforts to avoid this huge loss as a result of unemployment can offer only $15 million.
On Friday the minister gave us some statistics. For the $15 million the federal government is intending to spend, he said there had already been submitted accepted projects totalling $57 million, of which he claimed that 38 per cent would be in labour expenditure. The federal government's share of that amount, he said, would come to $7,751,000. Even accepting the minister's estimates, this federal government is offering to pay some $7 million out of an expenditure of $57 million. Mr. Chairman, this does not look to me as though this government is accepting much responsibility, when the offer is made to our hard-pressed municipalities that this government will spend $7 million if the municipalities will agree to spend $50 million out of their own resources.
Again accepting the minister's figures, we find that he says this will give employment of 1,226,358 man days. Dividing this figure by five, then dividing it by four and dividing it again by five months, according to the minister's own estimate we find it producing aid to 12,264 men for five months. I hope the minister will explain how at the beginning of his talk he predicted employment for over 20,000 men if half this money was going to be spent, indicating indirectly employment for 40,000 men. Taking the number of man days he mentioned, dividing by five because there are five work days in the week, and dividing by four because there are four weeks in the month, and then dividing by five again because five months is the average period this project is intended to serve, you come to only 12,264 men for a five-month period. That is taking the minister's own estimate and the number of man days of employment that are going to be given.
Supply-Labour
Even taking the minister's own estimate we must come to the conclusion that only 5 per cent, and not more than 5 per cent at most, of the unemployed in Canada are going to receive assistance from this measure. It is hardly sufficient in this day and age for a federal government of Canada to say to 100 unemployed men, "Look, we cannot help you all; we will help five out of the one hundred." That is hardly in keeping with concepts and expectations that have been built up in Canada over many long years now, beginning with the green book offer of 1945 that the federal government should assume all responsibility for all employable unemployed in Canada. It is certainly not in line with the expectations that were raised among the Canadian electorate before the election of either 1957 or 1958.
We now get the advice, "Yes, you will get a little bit of help from Ottawa, provided you are prepared to load a fantastic tax burden on the homes of Canadians living within your municipality". That is in effect what this offer amounts to. The minister is offering $7 million if municipal councils are willing to saddle the home owners with a debt burden of $50 million. That is what this offer amounts to, based on the minister's own estimate. Even if his estimate is right, I maintain that this is expecting far too much of our municipal officials, who have reached about the limit of the taxes they can impose back home where the debt burden of the municipalities is coming close to the maximum.
I should like to refer to one statement made by the minister as reported at page 1018 of Hansard. He stated in effect that this plan was evolved out of a meeting on unemployment called last summer, and a later meeting with the mayors and reeves of our municipalities. Referring to the municipal officials who were in Ottawa he had this to say, as reported at page 1018 of Hansard:
In other words, they felt they could proceed with some of their municipal projects in the winter time provided the additional cost was offset by a contribution from the federal government.
It may well have been that when the minister urged the municipalities to undertake public works in the winter months, they put before him the argument that winter construction costs are higher, and the idea may have been expressed that some compensation ought to be paid. However, I am sure the mayors and reeves never meant to convey the idea that, as municipalities, they were willing to assume the burden of unemployment relief works and that all they were asking was that the extra costs caused by winter weather should be borne by the federal government. These figures I have spoken

Supply-Labour
of indicate that all Ottawa seems prepared to do is to carry the extra burden caused by our inclement winter weather. Mr. Chairman, this whole program is too small a share of too limited a program, arriving much too late in the season to be of any major assistance in the matter of unemployment.


May I ask a question of the
hon. member who has just sat down. When the hon. member mentioned that only 10,000 men were going to be employed with the money voted by the federal government, did he take into account the number of persons who would be employed in the industries supplying the materials and machinery to do this work in the cities of Canada?


Yes, I did. I indicated why,
and I also had a full appreciation-and I said so in my remarks had the hon. member been listening-of the claim of the minister that for every one directly employed there would be three employed in off-site jobs, and I am not arguing with that at all.


Mr. Chairman, I wish only to take a moment, because this legislation under discussion will most certainly pass. I would like to suggest to the hon. gentleman who has just taken his seat that it should not to be construed to this house or to the people of Canada that there is any general dissatisfaction with this item. I have here one example, and there are many others. This is a letter from the Calgary labour council; a member of a body which I believe my hon. friends are intending to court, with apparently no success as yet, in the labour movement of Canada. In the opening paragraph this letter states very clearly that they commend the government for taking this action, and in a subsequent paragraph they say that they feel the result of this policy is good. In the Calgary area approximately $2J million will be approved, which will of course materially help to reduce unemployment. That is but one example.


Will the hon. member permit a question?


Yes, when I
am through.


I only wanted to ask, would he table the letter?


Yes, I will be very happy to do so. As I was saying, this is but one example of the attitude of a great number of organizations in connection with the success of this program. I think the house must keep in mind that this is but one of the moves which are being made to answer,

at least in part, the problem of unemployment as it faces Canada today. It is not a whole program in itself but only a contribution to it.
I think, too, Mr. Chairman, while I am on my feet I would like to make a suggestion in recognition of the problem as it affects certain areas, based on their climatic conditions or geographical position in our country. I think any future consideration of a program of this type should keep in mind that it is difficult, with sub-zero temperatures, to take full advantage of the offer which in effect is going to require the extensive supplying of concrete for sidewalks and other works which can be included in this entire program.
I also have a letter from the association of professional engineers. They make a suggestion which I think is worth while to consider, that the construction of roads and streets being to some extent impracticable because of climatic conditions in certain areas, such construction work as building homes for the aged and hospitals should be considered. In other words, Mr. Chairman, what I am suggesting is that some flexibility in a future program of this type should recognize the difficulty which exists in sub-zero areas of Canada taking complete and full advantage of the suggestions which were offered, I believe very generously, by the government.
I also think, in the same sphere, that consideration should be given to providing assistance in the development of plans and engineering designs, because many municipalities will not have undertaken at an early stage some of the major projects upon which they would like to commence work. These two suggestions I offer in the hope that if a future offer is made in any other year, considerations can be given to them.


Mr. Chairman, I know all the members of the house will agree with me when I say that I think one of the greatest catastrophes which could befall any person is the loss of employment whereby he or she provides the means of subsistence for his or her family. It is for that reason, Mr. Chairman, that I want to say a few words in regard to this item.
I think I can speak with some feeling, without boasting whatsoever, because I have had some experience as mayor of Niagara Falls. I think the Minister of Labour will agree with me when I say that one of the drawbacks and one of the reasons we have to prepare some sort of plan for winter unemployment is the fact that automation has stepped in. The advanced machinery age has stepped in, which deprives a lot of men of work throughout the winter. It was not too many years ago when in

Niagara Falls, when we had a snowstorm, we would hire about 200 to 250 men and take quite a few days clearing the snow away. Now with three snow loaders and a number of trucks we can do the same job with 10 or 12 men, and they certainly take the place of manpower.
I think one of the things we must impress upon ourselves is that too many people are looking to the higher levels of government, rightly so or not, for work to be provided. I believe this is a co-operative affair. I feel that the municipalities, the provincial governments and the federal government must cooperate; and not only that but industry, whether large or small, and municipalities must also co-operate in this matter.
There are certainly a lot of jobs that can be done, as the previous speaker said, in the winter but which are done either in the spring, summer or fall. I have a friend who is a large contractor. He always said to me, and I will never forget it, "I try to do the jobs in the summer which I can do. There are only two jobs I can't do in the winter, and they are anything in regard to soil and outside painting. I do the construction, the basic work, in the summer and fall and leave the inside work for the winter so I can provide employment for my men". I was also talking to another contractor, who said, "I try to hire men who have a dual capacity as mason and plasterer. I do the work outside in the summer and fall, the masonry, the soil and painting work, and then I put these masons plastering and painting inside during the winter."
I think this is all bogey talk. We hear so many people say you cannot do a certain job in the winter, that it must be done in the summer. Manufacturers as well as governments have to learn that almost 90 per cent of the jobs can be done in the winter as well as summer.
What does the Department of Labour say about seasonal unemployment? The Department of Labour refers to seasonal unemployment regarding economic and social waste in these terms:
Seasonal unemployment in real terms means Inability to utilize available manpower and productive capacity and maladjustments in the allocation of resources, all of which impose additional cost on the economy.
Seasonal unemployment, like most any other type, creates a feeling of insecurity and dissatisfaction on the part of those who bear it most directly.
Mr. Chairman, it has been said by the hon. member for the C.C.F. party that there are some objections to this plan. In the first place, it is too little and it is too late. In the second 66968-8-69
Supply-Labour
place, a lot of the municipalities cannot afford it. In the third place, many municipalities are not taking proper advantage of it even if they can afford it. But I think a point which is of paramount importance is the fact that municipalities cannot afford the supplies. If the government had included supplies I am sure many, many more municipalities would have taken advantage of this program.
Now, I want to say to the Minister of Labour that I think he did a very fine thing when he called that conference last July. I congratulated him at that time, because I thought it was a proper thing to do with unemployment coming, as it was sure to, this winter. But people who attend conventions, and I have been to plenty of them, go to them full of pep and enthusiasm and say, "Oh, yes, we will do this and we will do that". They pass all kinds of resolutions about what they intend to do, but the moment the door of the conference hall is closed behind them they lose their enthusiasm and lose the vigour with which they were holding forth about the ideas promoted at the convention.
If there is one criticism which can be made of the minister it is this. It can certainly be said of him that he was too late in getting the instructions out to the municipalities. My colleague the hon. member for Essex East asked on a number of occasions in August if a report had been received by the cabinet in connection with this convention, and the minister replied that it had not. The municipalities received a telegram from the Prime Minister in the last week of October. We on this side certainly thought the conference should have been held in time to enable plans to be formed. Plans should have been in the hands of the various municipalities by the end of September at the latest, because the municipal governments must know on what basis they are to plan, they must study their budgets and be given information as to what lies ahead. In this respect the Minister of Labour has a most important task on his hands.
May I offer this suggestion to the minister, and I do so with all possible friendliness; in fact, I should like to offer him two or three suggestions. First of all, he should call together the ministers of labour of the various provincial governments and have them meet here in Ottawa as soon as possible to talk over not only the question of winter unemployment but the subject of unemployment in general. The ministers of labour should then return to their provincial governments, call in the reeves and mayors of the various municipalities and discuss at once

Supply-Labour
with them the answer to the problem which is bound to be presented by unemployment next winter.
There is a further suggestion I should like to make to the minister, and I think it is a feasible one. The hon. member for Calgary South has referred here to work being carried on in April and May. We have this problem arising in Niagara Falls, namely that it is almost impracticable to undertake work on sidewalks and similar projects in the month of April. The same is true, I know, in other municipalities, and I hope the minister will endeavour to persuade the government to agree that this work can be carried on until at least June 1, in order that more municipalities may be able to take advantage of this provision and go ahead with their schemes.
I often wonder about this situation, and sometimes I shudder to think of it. Suppose the Liberal party were responsible for the government at the present time, and suppose unemployment were as high as it is today-* of course it would not be as high if the Liberals were in power. I shut my eyes and imagine how the Minister of Labour, in his genial way, would criticize us. Certainly the hon. lady who is now Minister of Citizenship and Immigration would be at our heels almost every day complaining about the situation as, I have no doubt, would the Minister of Finance. He would be doing his homework every night in an effort to find arguments to direct against us, using the same arguments that we are using now.
Hon. members opposite may ask us, what are you offering as a solution? Well, there are two or three suggestions which I am offering toward a solution, and with regard to the first of these I believe the Minister of Finance will be in agreement with me. This is an old chestnut. I have heard many fine speeches in this house and many fine arguments advanced in favour of the elimination of the automobile tax. The Minister of Finance certainly made some when he was in opposition, and I am sure if the government could see fit to remove this tax it would have splendid results in keeping men at work. Cars would at once become cheaper, and many more people would be buying them.
I should like to point out to the committee that there are almost half a million people connected with the automotive industry, which provides about one in ten of all the jobs available in the country. When one considers that we have in Canada over 5,000 automobile dealers, well over 15,000 independent garages and over 18,000 service stations, the importance of this industry to employment becomes apparent.

There is another tho