Mr. Speaker, first I want to refer to the fact that you have tabled in the house and distributed to hon. members copies of the Canadian delegation's report on the fourth meeting of the Canada-U.S.A. interparliamentary group. I think the house will agree that this group has made a unique contribution to Canada-United States relations as well as to a wide knowledge of international affairs. Under the circumstances, and as in the past, if the house would agree, the report might be printed as an appendix to Hansard.


Is the house agreeable to the suggestion made by the Prime Minister that the document to which he referred be printed as an appendix to today's Hansard?


Agreed.
[Editor's note: For text of the report referred to above, see appendix.]


The hon. member for Vancouver East asked me a question yesterday regarding Canadian troops in the Congo. Since the answer is of some length I think it would be appropriate for me to give it at this time. His question arose in the light of the recent tragic loss of life among the Ghanaian contingent, and he asked for information about the position of Canadian troops and their capacity for self defence.
Canadian military personnel in the Congo are assigned to the United Nations and are under the authority of the United Nations Congo command. It is the United Nations command which has direct responsibility for the safety of United Nations troops, as well as for their effectiveness in carrying out their tasks.
On the question of self-defence, United
Nations troops in the Congo are still under basically the same orders as those issued by
the first United Nations commander, General Von Horn. These orders provided, in general, that members of the United Nations forces are authorized to use their weapons in self defence and to maintain positions which are considered tactically essential to the United Nations operations. These orders have been reinforced and given more detailed interpretation by the current commander, General McEoin.
In the light of the special difficulties and dangers faced by this non-combatant peacekeeping United Nations operation, Canadian members of the force have been given specific instructions by their Canadian commanding officer, derived from instructions issued by the United Nations commander. In essence the orders to Canadian troops provide that they may use their weapons for defence in certain clearly defined circumstances. Resort to force is, of course, to be used only if normal discussion or negotiation has proved impossible or unavailing.
The Canadian contingent in the Congo consists of technical and support personnel, mainly signallers. They are deployed at the U.N. headquarters signals centre in Leopoldville and in small detachments which operate communications at regional centres throughout the Congo. In Leopoldville the Canadian soldiers are responsible for the defence of their own building. The grounds around the building are guarded by line troops from other contingents in the U.N. force. At the regional centres the Canadian signals detachments are stationed within U.N.-garrisoned areas.
Despite their technical role, the Canadian troops in the Congo, because of the risks which have become evident in the situation there, have over the past few months been supplied with heavier weapons in addition to those with which they were equipped when they first went to the Congo.
I hope the house will agree that the Canadian troops which are participating in this Congo operation have been given reasonable authority and means with which to meet the dangers inherent in that operation.


Mr. Speaker, I believe that all
hon. members will have heard with satisfaction the statement made by the Prime Minister. All hon. members must be extremely proud of the way in which Canadian forces

Canadian Forces in Congo are serving their country and peace in the Congo in circumstances of unprecedented difficulty which make the qualities of discipline which they possess even more important than they are ordinarily.
While we pay tribute to their devotion and to their discipline it is surely essential, as the Prime Minister has indicated, that there should be no doubt that they have both the authority and the facilities with which to defend themselves against unprovoked assault. It may not be easy to lay down, in the words of the Prime Minister, the clearly defined circumstances which would justify the use of defensive weapons, but I am sure every effort will be made by the United Nations to make sure that in the attempt to do that the safety and security of those concerned is the first consideration.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister has taken the earliest opportunity to give to the house a statement on the question I asked him yesterday relative to the position of our Canadian forces in the Congo. I think it is important for all of us to recognize the fact that there is a difficult situation existing in the Congo, as there has been for some time.
As a result of representations made in the security council of the United Nations, Canada was asked, and immediately complied with the request, for certain men, in particular those who spoke French, to undertake certain responsibilities in the Congo. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, a number of difficulties have arisen, some of them of such a serious nature that there have been, I would say, most embarrassing attacks-without reply by the Canadians, for which fact they are to be honoured-but of recent days particular attacks on the U.N. forces of such a nature that they have led to a number of deaths.
We appreciate the statement which has been made by the Prime Minister. We hope he can perhaps enlarge on the statement, if not now then in the question period, as to exactly what is meant by what he said a few moments ago to the effect that instructions have been issued to our Canadian peace forces in the Congo to defend themselves under what he termed "clearly defined circumstances". I think, sir, that as Canada has met the requests of the United Nations in every respect, this house is entitled to know what the Prime Minister meant by "clearly defined circumstances". Because of what has happened to the troops of Ghana and, as we understand from the press, a number of white officers, I think we should know what equipment is now being supplied to Canadians.


In conclusion, I think it is imperative that the statement made a few moments ago by the Prime Minister should be enlarged so we may know whether any consultations have taken place between the government and the United Nations as to instructions through the secretary general of the United Nations to the command in the Congo concerning the arrest of those who have committed the slaughter of those who were trying to help, and what charges should be laid against them.
I think Canada has the right to ask for answers to the questions I have just outlined. Perhaps the Prime Minister would now, or later in the question period, elaborate on the points I have just raised.

On the orders of the day:


should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the statement made under motions a few minutes ago and my observations in regard to it I should like to ask, in the light of the fact that Canada's forces in the Congo, although in uniform, are a police force under the command of the United Nations, whether the Prime Minister would not give the house more definite information as to the nature of the arms carried by Canadians in the Congo. Would the right hon. gentleman tell us what he meant by saying that these arms could be used under "clearly defined circumstances"? Might we be told, further, whether any representations have been made to the United Nations, and through that organization to the commander in the Congo, as to the action to be taken with regard to those in the Congo who have apparently not understood, or object to, the efforts of Canada and the United Nations to make peace in that troubled area of the world?


In so far as the second question is concerned with reference to the grounds which have to be established before United Nations troops are entitled to respond with force, the circumstances that are to be taken into consideration are as follows: they have the right to resist attempts to disarm them; to resist attempts to arrest or abduct any United Nations personnel, military or civilian; to resist attempts to prevent them by force from carrying out their responsibilities as ordered by their commanders; and, in addition, to use weapons in defence of positions they have been ordered to hold.
As to the first question, notice of a similar question was sent to me by the hon. member for Davenport. He wishes to know, as does the hon. member for Vancouver East, the

nature of the arms which are issued or available to United Nations troops. Originally the Canadian contingent was equipped with pistols and sub-machine guns. They now have as well a quantity of semi-automatic rifles, six light machine guns and two 3.5 inch rocket launchers. Mr. Speaker, I am not sure what the third question was.


Mr. Speaker, perhaps I can put that question again in this way, in the hope that I am not making an erroneous comment. In view of what the United Nations wants and is trying to do in the Congo-Mr. Ham-marskjold is doing a magnificent job in this regard-and since Canada is taking a part in the maintenance of peace in order to bring about a democratic state there; and in view of the unfortunate situation that United Nations representatives in uniform are being shot down, I should like to ask if this government has in any way taken up this matter with the United Nations in order to have United Nations action-because it is wrong to have a tour de force without force-and in the circumstances to bring to trial those who have done what has been done in opposition to the United Nations. On what basis have representations been made in order to bring to trial those individuals responsible for this criminal attitude, and what charges will be laid? Has any attitude been taken by this government on this most important matter?


Mr. Speaker, naturally discussions have been taking place in this regard, but when the hon. gentleman speaks of enforcing the law against those who break the law he should have some regard to the tremendous areas in the Congo and the virtual impossibility of enforcing the law against individuals.
In that connection I should amend an answer I gave yesterday with respect to Mr. Tshombe. I am now informed that the United Kingdom government did convey a message to the United Nations calling for the release from detention of Mr. Tshombe. I did not have this information yesterday. However, since the United Kingdom government sent this message the situation has altered, and I can only again express the hope that this trial will be proceeded with justly and fairly and with full recognition of the rights of an accused to a fair trial.


Mr. Speaker, some time ago I informed the house that the government was 90205-6-287
Inquiries of the Ministry completing its study of the possibility of reducing the small holding acreage requirement under the Veterans' Land Act below the present minimum of two acres.
The government has now approved the principle that financial assistance for the establishment of a veteran on a small holding shall be made available where the land area is at least one half an acre in extent. The necessary amendment to the Veterans' Land Act regulations is in course of preparation and will set the effective date of the proposed change.
An additional amendment to the regulations will be made to provide that a veteran who has already been established on a small holding shall be permitted, where it is possible, to dispose of his land to the extent that it exceeds one half an acre. It is expected that it will be possible to grant this permission in the majority of cases.


Mr. Speaker, I cannot help but rise and express the great pleasure of this group on the announcement just made by the Minister of Veterans Affairs that the government has approved in principle financial assistance to those desiring to obtain small holdings under the Veterans' Land Act by reducing the acreage requirement to half an acre. This will be a very welcome announcement to thousands of veterans in Canada who up to this time have been denied an opportunity to obtain a small holding because of the difficulty in meeting the former acreage requirement.
I was very pleased also to hear the minister say that arrangements are being made for veterans who are already settled to dispose of any surplus acreage above that amount.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Prime Minister whether he can inform the house when certain legislation which has been forecast will be added to the order paper, which has not been substantially changed for six weeks.


Mr. Speaker, the fact that the order paper has not been substantially changed for six weeks in no way implies that the house has not been working full time. When the business on the order paper is cleared away, or nearly so, then will be the time to give effect to the adding of further items.

Inquiries of the Ministry EXTERNAL AFFAIRS


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. I wonder if the Prime Minister would care to make any comment on press reports of statements being made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. Green) in Oslo to the effect that the United States should take no unilateral action in Cuba.


I have not seen the full text of the statement made by the Secretary of State for External Affairs, but what he is reported to have said is quite consistent and consonant with what I said in the House of Commons on April 19. As to armed intervention, there has never been any doubt as to the Canadian attitude. As I indicated then, Canada has no thought of intervening.
The rest of the statement was apparently concerned with the question of possible negotiation. Naturally, in view of the support we have at all times given for the settlement of disputes between nations by peaceful means, we would hope that a basis could be found for negotiation, although certainly the present circumstances do not lead one to be too optimistic in that regard.


Is there any thought that this particular issue and these particular differences might be taken up by the United Nations?


Differences do get taken up there from time to time.


Would Canada support such an action?


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. Can the Prime Minister tell the house whether there are Canadian citizens who are still being held by the Cuban authorities?


Mr. Speaker, the Canadian embassy in Cuba has been doing everything possible to secure exit permits and transportation for Canadians who desire to leave Cuba. It is hoped that a number of Canadian priests and nuns whose work in Cuba must now be discontinued will be able to return to Canada.


In that connection I might point out that over the week end there was a serious deterioration in the situation in Colon, where many Canadian nuns are stationed. Representations were made by the Canadian ambassador and Premier Castro, who is taking a personal interest in the matter, has sent a personal representative to look into the question. I believe it can now be said that Premier Castro has undertaken to ensure the safety and welfare of the Canadians concerned. His personal representative is endeavouring to ascertain what action can be taken immediately.
In that connection I should point out that Father Paul Emile Chenard, a Canadian priest who has been under arrest since the middle of April, has now been released from prison and is safe and well. There is just one other Canadian under arrest, John Darling, and the Canadian embassy in Havana is continuing to make representations on his behalf to the Cuban foreign ministry.


Can the
Prime Minister say whether the Canadian government through its spokesman, the Canadian ambassador in Cuba, has made representations with regard to the designation by Premier Castro of priests and nuns from this and other countries as scoundrels? Can the Prime Minister say, too, whether there has been any confiscation of properties in Cuba owned by Canadian religious bodies?


As to the latter part of the hon. gentleman's question or remarks, I might say we have no information in that regard that would lead us to believe that there has been any confiscation. As to the earlier part of his question, the hon. gentleman may rest assured that the fullest representations are being made by the Canadian ambassador in Cuba, and I am glad today to be able to report that the representations made by Canada have been so successful.
(Translation):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport.
Is the minister in a position to inform us of the action taken by his department to dispatch ice-breakers to the Chaleur bay area so as to hasten the opening of Caraquet and Shippigan harbours where fishermen are anxiously waiting for the break up in order to begin their new fishing season?


Mr. Speaker, representations were received on March 24 from those two municipalities. At that time the ice was too thick and it was impossible for the department ice-breakers to break it.
Since then the ice-breaker McLean has
kept on working in Chaleur bay, using a helicopter to keep a constant watch on the ice floes that have formed in the two harbours in question.
As soon as the ice is thin enough to be broken by our ice-breakers, this will be done immediately; this should take place early next week.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Would the minister indicate to the house if the plans for the Champlain bridge approaches are completed and, if not, what is the cause of the delay?


I will inquire about that, Mr. Speaker, and I will give an answer to the question tomorrow morning.


I have a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is it a fact that the government is waiting for the Montreal city authorities to decide where the east-west express highway will pass before deciding on the site for the Champlain bridge approaches?


Mr. Speaker, the officers
of my department are discussing the matter with those of the city of Montreal. I know the discussions have been going on for some time, but I am unable to say how the matter stands now. I will find out and give an answer tomorrow.
(Text):


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of National Defence. Is it a fact, as reported by the Canadian Press, that the R.C.A.F. CF-100 jet interceptors being withdrawn from disbanded air defence squadrons will be turned over to Crown Assets Disposal Corporation for sale as scrap?
90205-6-287J
Inquiries of the Ministry


Mr. Speaker, the CF-lOO's which will be surplus to establishment as a result of the disbanding of the four squadrons will have removed from them all parts that can be used for the purpose of making repairs on the other CF-lOO's which we will still hold. What is left after that, and to a large extent it will be the air frame, which has no practical value or use, as such, will then be turned over as scrap for disposal by Crown Assets Disposal Corporation.


In view of the obvious inference, can the minister say what plans he has for replacing the obsolete CF-lOO's being used by the five continuing squadrons?


The hon. member well knows that I am not going to make a statement of major government equipment policy in answer to a question at this period of our proceedings.


Is there a policy?


On the orders of the day:
wish to direct a question to the Minister of Public Works. In view of the anxiety of the Trail city council to proceed with its urban renewal development program as soon as possible, would the minister inform the house when he expects a decision will be made as to the acceptance of this program by the federal government?


Mr. Speaker, the Secretary of State for External Affairs made inquiries last week on behalf of the city of Trail. Recently the city submitted to Central Mortgage and Housing Corporation an application for a federal contribution toward the cost of acquiring and clearing a blighted area of approximately 14.4 acres. It is proposed that approximately 40 per cent of the cleared land be used to provide a right of way for the relocation of a provincial highway into Trail, and thus we have our difficulty.
It will therefore be necessary for the corporation to discuss with the city and the province the basis on which this land will be made available to the department of highways. I trust that these negotiations may soon be concluded so the corporation may make the appropriate recommendations to me. I should also like to assure the hon. member that this application will receive the most careful and sympathetic consideration.

Inquiries of the Ministry


I presume the minister
thought that the Secretary of State for External Affairs was inquiring on my behalf?


Mr. Speaker, I thought he was to make a speech last week in Trail.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Transport. Has the government come to a decision with reference to a policy concerning regional air carriers? If so, does the minister anticipate making a statement on that subject in the near future?


Mr. Speaker, as I believe I said earlier in the
house, the air transport board has made a complete review of all the regional carriers east of the lakehead, and it is anticipated that a decision on the various requests before the board should come within a very few days.


Can the minister say whether the application of Canadian Pacific Airlines for additional trancontinental air routes will be submitted to the air transport board for determination?


Again, Mr. Speaker, I think I have said in the house before that all applications for internal air transportation have to come before the air transport board. So far as C.P.A. is concerned, when C.P.A. was granted a transcontinental flight across Canada about two years ago the air transport board said at the time that two years hence a review of the situation on the transcontinental route would be made by the board.


On the orders of the day:
Mr. Speaker, yesterday the hon. member for Bonavista-Twiflingate referred to a question he had asked previously of my colleague the Minister of Transport and myself respecting an application for a television satellite station in Saskatchewan. I am advised by the board of broadcast governors that the board has recommended to the governor in council approval of a satellite licence to A. A. Murphy and Sons Limited of Saskatoon. I am also advised that written representations have been received by the


governor in council objecting to this decision, and the matter has not yet been considered by the government.
While I am on my feet, may I say I have had an inquiry from the hon. member for Moose Mountain respecting another application for a satellite station. This matter will be given consideration and a decision arrived at in the near future.


On the orders of the day:
May I ask the Minister of Trade and Commerce when he expects to leave for London to discuss the uranium contract with the British government?


Mr. Speaker, I have been in touch with the high commissioner's office here about arranging a meeting between ourselves and our opposite numbers in the British government. The best arrangement it has been possible to work out is that as Sir Roger Makins will be visiting Canada on June 12, discussions on this important matter will be carried on then.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister, and I regret that I was unable to give him longer notice. With reference to the Canadian National Railways special train which evacuated government personnel in exercise Tocsin last Friday, can the Prime Minister inform the house whether the cost of this special train was paid for entirely by the Canadian National?


Order; I think without notice the hon. member is a little optimistic in expecting this statistical information. I suggest that he put his question on the order paper.
[Later:f


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Prime Minister. In view of the importance which he placed on the statement made in the house last week concerning operation Tocsin which, for the first time-


Order. If the hon. member has a question about Tocsin would he please ask it.


1 am just trying to lay a basis for the importance the Prime Minister based on it. In view of operation Tocsin finding gaps in civil defence, has the Prime Minister given any consideration to an allocation of time to discuss this matter of civil defence and the results of the exercise from a federal, provincial and observer's point of view?


The exercise was a most important one, and one of the purposes as stated was to assure that every element in our civil defence should receive proper attention.


Including observers.


In the province of the hon. gentleman, apparently the ministers did not participate, but in other parts of the country the provincial ministers did. When reports from the various parts of the country have been received and collated, then I will be in a position to make a report to the house. Consideration can then be given to the other parts of the hon. member's question.


I do not want any misunderstanding over the province to which I referred a moment ago. It was in consequence of an interruption on the part of the hon. member for Assiniboia that I made the statement in question as to participation.


Speaking on a point of order, Mr. Speaker, may I say that the Prime Minister referred to "my province". I think he should have said "our province".


That correction is
accepted. However, the government of his province is the one to which I referred.


Your government.


His government of our province.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Labour which has to do with two related matters to which I directed his attention last week. Is it necessary for the unemployed who have drawn benefits to clear with the local unemployment insurance office before leaving their area for a day or so? Will any of the unemployed who took part in the recent trip to Ottawa to see the government be penalized in any respect, for instance by the withholding of benefits?
Inquiries of the Ministry


The other day the hon. member for Welland asked me a question which read as follows:
I have a supplementary question. Without reference to the unemployed who came to Ottawa, how long can a man be out of his area and still receive unemployment insurance benefits if he is entitled to them?
I referred this question to the unemployment insurance commission and have received this answer: This depends entirely on the reason for the claimant's absence and whether or not he maintains his availability for work. Because of these factors no categorical answer can be given, each case being decided on its own merits.


May I ask a supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Is the minister aware of the fact that several unemployed have received letters to the effect that $8 will be deducted from their allowances for being away on that date?


Several of them have communicated with me, and I have turned over their letters to the unemployment insurance commission. I am awaiting the decision and reply of the commission.


On the orders of the day:
(Translation):
Mr. Speaker, I wish to direct a question to the Minister of Agriculture.
(Text):
Is it the government's intention, as reported in some newspapers, to put an end to the quota restrictions on turkeys imported from the United States?


I have not seen the article in question in the newspaper. However, the announcement I made in the house that there is no intention of changing the quota still stands.


On the orders of the day:
In view of
the remark of the Prime Minister with regard to an election perhaps I might ask the Minister of Agriculture, who of course is not concerned with elections, whether he has any reply to make to the representations made by the Ontario soybean growers' marketing board

Inquiries of the Ministry for an improvement in the floor price. They asked for $2.50, and I hope the minister will be able to accede to that request.


Government policy in respect of this type of subject is announced at a time suitable for such announcement to be made.


On the orders of the day:
should like to direct a question to the Postmaster General. Would the minister please advise whether the Royal Canadian Mounted Police have completed their investigation into the damaging of mail boxes in sites 58 and 59, Nagle's Hill-Higgins' Line, St. John's, N ewf oundland?


It has not been completed, Mr. Speaker.


May I ask a supplementary question. How long does the minister think it will be before he receives a report?


suggest that the hon. member refer that question to the Minister of Justice. It is the Royal Canadian Mounted Police investigation, not ours.


I think the hon. member might put his question on the order paper, since it does not seem to be one of sufficient urgency or importance.


On the orders of the day:
I have a question for the Minister of Public Works. Some time ago I asked the minister whose responsibility it was to repair the trans-Canada highway flood damage in the Fraser canyon of British Columbia. I would appreciate that information.


I regret overlooking an answer to the hon. member. The highway had been completed in this area in accordance with the trans-Canada highway agreement. This being the case, the maintenance of the highway then becomes the responsibility of the province. Having regard to the fact that the damage in this instance was caused by excessive rainfall, we must look to the province for the completion of repairs to the highway. The federal government has no responsibility.


On the orders of the day:
I wish to address a question to the Secretary of State. Can the minister assure the house that al announcements published in The Canada Gazette by any department of government are correct?


Order. The hon. member is taking in a lot of territory. I am afraid he might not get a complete answer if he asked this question every day.


On the orders of the day:
I should like to ask the Prime Minister a question, Mr. Speaker, based upon nothing other than the pleasant state of euphoria that seems to have settled over the government recently. I wonder if the Prime Minister would tell us whether he has given serious consideration to initiating a federal general election on September 25 or October 2, 1961?


I think that with the addition of those two dates, the opposition has pretty well covered every date in the year.


On the orders of the day:
wonder if the Prime Minister would be in a position to answer today a question I asked yesterday concerning whether or not the government had any representations from the state department-
Righl Hon. J. G. Diefenbaker (Prime Minister): Oh, yes, Mr. Speaker. The hon. gentleman asked whether representations had recently been made by the United States state department regarding the possibilities of a joint survey of the Richelieu river canal project. A note on this subject was received from the United States embassy on May 4, and its contents are now being considered and studied by departmental officials.


Would the Prime Minister consider tabling this correspondence?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman knows that notes that pass between governments are not tabled in that way.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if I could ask the Minister of Transport whether he has yet had a reply from the Canadian National Railways with respect to the suggestion that they take over the 4 mile spur line from their line into Springhill, Nova Scotia, about which the minister was asked on February 17?


I will have to inquire again, Mr. Speaker.


On the orders of the day:
I wonder if I could ask a supplementary question of the Minister of Justice. Could the minister tell us how he got on with his discussion of the Columbia matter during the course of exercise Tocsin?


To
my regret, Mr. Speaker, and to my considerable surprise-and contrary to expectations -Premier Bennett was not at the emergency headquarters in Nanaimo. I understand he was not in the province of British Columbia at the time. Therefore I was not able to have any discussion with him.

The house resumed, from Monday, May 8, consideration of the motion of Mr. Fleming (Eglinton) for committee of supply, and the amendment thereto of Mr. Robichaud, and the amendment to the amendment of Mr. Argue.


Mr. Speaker, last night at ten o'clock, when the house rose, I was discussing the amount of money in the unemployment insurance account. Last night I said that on July 1, 1957, just after the election, there was $862 million in that account. Today, with bonds and securities at market value, there is $146 million left in that account. It is down by $716 million.
I said that was a great deal of money. It is within $100 million of the extra interest that this government has saddled on the people of Canada. Together these two amounts total $1,500 million. That is just a fraction of what this government has done to the people of Canada with practically nothing to show for it. It has dropped this account by $716 million in something less than
Unemployment Insurance four years. By next July, when the four years are up, that fund will be down to $100 million or less, according to the unemployment insurance advisory committee, and they say most likely to $85 million.
In this $716 million depletion there is an amount of $66.2 million of actual loss from selling bonds at less than they paid for them and bonds held and priced at the present market value. The unemployment insurance coverage has been extended. The base has been broadened. But since the insurance aspect of this account has largely been forgotten by this government, it has assumed obligations in respect to unemployed people that properly belong to the government and not to the fund. Because of this situation the Minister of Finance has been able to shove some of the legitimate costs of government into that fund. As bad as they have been, his budgets would have been a great deal worse and he would have had larger deficits if the money in this fund had not been available.
The fiscal policy of the government has, through high interest rates, stagnated our economy. According to the press Mr. Coyne said that interest rates depended upon government and other requirements. Money is a commodity; and as with any other commodity, its price or the interest rates depend upon supply and demand. The Minister of Finance has certainly supplied the demand. I do not think there is much hope for an increase in the value of the bonds and other securities held in the unemployment insurance account, with the Minister of Finance on the sideline. You would almost think he is afraid to bring down his budget and show what a big deficit we had last year and what a big one we are going to have this year. At the same time we know that he will be requiring a great deal of extra money. It would seem that the minister's mind is in a state of turmoil, and that the budget will be based upon the political climate immediately ahead. I think he should adapt his budget to the needs of our country instead of to any political considerations.
If the unemployment insurance account is any indication of high finance by this government, the minister might better bring down his budget now and not have it embellished with any propaganda. The government lost over $65 million in the unemployment insurance account. Much of this amount was lost in the conversion loan issues. It does not matter whether you say that the conversion loan gave people bigger and better jobs, as the Prime Minister said it would. It does not matter whether you try to make the people believe that they got cheaper money, that provinces and municipalities got

Unemployment Insurance money at a cheaper rate, as the government said they would. I think it all comes down to this point. You cannot make the working people of Canada or the taxpayers of Canada believe that the loss of this $65 million was good for them.
This loss has come about because of the fiscal policy of the government. We on this side of the house at various times in 1960, as well as the unemployment insurance advisory committee, advised the government that something should be done about this dangerous situation of the unemployment insurance fund. The speech from the throne also recognized this fact. Last November in the speech from the throne it was forecast that legislation would be brought down to replenish this fund. What has been done? We have been sitting here for over 100 days and nothing has been done. The fund has been forced to incur new losses through the sale of securities in order to meet the demands on it with regard to benefit payments.
There is obviously only one reason to explain the government's delay. In spite of the fact that the unemployment insurance advisory committee has advised that the government should take certain specific and concrete steps, and in spite of the existing emergency, after all these months the government have done nothing. They have not made up their minds. We do not know whether they are going to accept the recommendations of the advisory committee or whether they have an alternative plan.
I challenge the government at this time and I challenge the minister to deny that no amendments of the bill are ready to present to this house. I do not think they have any at this time. I ask the minister to tell the house when he intends to introduce this urgent legislation, and to give a definite understanding that the present session will not come to an end with nothing being done with respect to this fund.
I want to repeat that the government is facing an urgent situation. The fund is still forced to unload its securities at a loss. The fund is also forced to hypothecate some of these securities and borrow money from the Minister of Finance. I do not know what interest he charges. This process is bound to come to an end. They will soon have no bonds to sell and the unemployment insurance fund will soon have no bonds to hypothecate. Then, in the absence of new legislation, the fund will have to interrupt the payment of benefits to those who become unemployed, unless the fund is replenished. This would certainly be a catastrophe. There is, I know, one course which is open to the government,


but it is an irregular and most unusual one. That would be to have recourse to governor general's warrants.
For all these reasons I ask the minister to present these amendments to the Unemployment Insurance Act early this coming week. This is not an unreasonable request on the part of the opposition. I think the government should long since have made up their minds as to what they are going to do, and should have presented this legislation to the house. If the minister does not comply with this request, we on this side of the house, hon. members in all parts of the house and the people of Canada will know that this government does not know where it is going. This is just another indication and example of indecision, procrastination and inaction on the part of this government, and we have seen many such examples in the past.
I think this loss of over $65 million in the unemployment insurance fund is a serious matter. I do not know whether it has ever happened before in Canada. Certainly I do not know of any other instance where a government had control of the working people's money and lost it by bad investment.


And mismanagement.


The unemployment insurance committee got out a special report on October 27, 1960. It is easy to read that report. I have it here. It can be read in half an hour. The government kept it for six weeks and presented it to the house in the dying hours of the last day of the session before Christmas.


They did that twice.


They did not want the people of Canada to know about this report before Christmas. The unemployment insurance advisory committee had this to say:
It is not safe to estimate that the fund will have a balance of greater than $140 million to $150 million by the end of March, 1961.
They were right, because that fund has $146 million in it at the present time. In addition, they said that because of heavy seasonal benefits during April and May of this year the fund would possibly be as low as $85 million, a most unsafe level. The advisory committee called attention to two main items which created the major drains on the fund. They are first, the extension of the seasonal benefit period, and second, the drain on the fund caused by the extension of the coverage to the fishing industry. They state in their report that it is difficult to cover the fishing industry, since in most cases there is no contract of service, and therefore the control

provisions necessary to administer the act in connection with this industry are of little value.
The loss to the fund in respect to the fishing industry is $23 million over three years. Since part of this amount was included in the $119 million depletion, they consider that the fund in respect to the depletion caused by that industry should be replenished by $12 million. This makes a total of $131 million which they recommend the government should have put into the fund last summer or fall.
We think the fund should be on a good, sound basis. The higher rates of contribution came into effect in September, 1959, and the increases agreed fairly closely with the predictions of the actuary. However, this has been offset by greater unemployment and greater claims on the fund, and the fund has gone down.
In connection with this the committee made three or four recommendations which, if and when they are presented to this house, I think will be given favourable consideration. The first is that there should be two classes at the top of the earnings range. Also there should be a readjustment and consolidation of the lower classes of earnings, and a revision of the rates of allowable earnings. They recommend that we should eliminate the wage ceiling of $4,800 and fix a higher wage ceiling to suit present conditions.
I remember what was said in the house when it was decided to cover fishermen. Last night I heard the parliamentary secretary to the Minister of Labour claim credit for his party for covering fishermen. I recall very well that at the time they were covered Mr. Harris said in the house that money should be voted from the consolidated revenue fund to meet the losses incurred because they were being covered. I hope the hon. member has now learned the truth about it and that he will not rise in the house and condemn the former government for covering fishermen. After all, it has only cost the fund about $10 million a year to give this coverage to the fishing industry, and this is a small amount when you consider the total $716 million depletion in this fund.
Certainly the loss to the fund of $66 million would more than compensate for the loss incurred in this respect over six years. If and when amendments are brought before the house-and I sincerely hope they are brought before the house this year-we on this side will pass comments on them and make suggestions. We do not know what the government are going to do, but I should like them to bring legislation forward now and not be influenced by any by-elections which lie ahead, or by any other political considerations. I would appeal to the government; let
Unemployment Insurance them cease losing money out of the fund; let them cease playing politics with money that belongs to the workers of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, basically what I have in mind to say on this important matter which is now before us can be said in a very few minutes and a very few sentences.
This matter of unemployment insurance is of the utmost importance to the constituency of Vancouver East. The riding of Vancouver East is a working class, residential riding. Over the past few months the workers in that constituency have been hit very, very hard by unemployment. Therefore there is a great and grave concern for all matters concerning unemployment insurance, the act itself and the regulations made thereunder.
Bluntly, I am greatly disappointed that this issue is being discussed on a political basis, that the government and the official opposition are blaming each other for what has occurred. This matter is of such importance that it should not raise political considerations of credit or discredit; it is a matter which directly affects those who are unemployed and require assistance. It must be said that unemployment insurance is not a charity. It is assistance to those who are unemployed and, under the existing law, it is available as a right because of the provisions of the law and because of the contributions made by the federal government, the employers and the employees. Since it is a right, it should not come within the realm of political discussion such as we have heard.
It is a fact that in the past two or three years the unemployment insurance fund has dropped sharply from close to a billion dollars to its present unprecedented low state. Personally I have only one approach to this matter. My concern is not with who is responsible for what has happened or with praising or condemning the official opposition. My concern is to draw one fact to the attention of the government, which has the authority to act. It is this. The unemployed who are willing to work and available to work must be assured that there is sufficient money in the fund to take care of them if they are not able to obtain employment.
So, regardless of the mistakes of the past, and no matter whether the Minister of Finance has betrayed the people in connection with his bond issues, making them worth less than they were at the time of purchase, there seems to me to be only one matter of importance to discuss. If this government, with its authority and ability to bring forward legislation, is not able to supply employment to those who are able and willing to work, then there must be sufficient money in the unemployment insurance fund to take care of

Unemployment Insurance those who cannot find jobs. That is the responsibility of the government, and that is the only thing with which I am now concerned as the representative of Vancouver East, where there have been so many unemployed in the past and where there are so many unemployed at the present time.
This is not simply a request. I do not like the word "demand", but I say this is a demand that the government accept its responsibilities, since this is clearly a responsibility of an administration which has made certain changes in the law in the past and under whose direction since 1957 we have come from a high point to a unprecedented low. I say that because of the trust placed in this government by the workers in 1957 and 1958, particularly in 1958, the government now has a duty to build up the fund so that in conditions of unemployment-and I think these, unfortunately, are a foregone conclusion-there are the facilities and the finances to tide these people over on a decent and reasonable basis until jobs are available.
One could speak, for half an hour, an hour, or longer on this issue of unemployment insurance, but I do not think anyone, regardless of how long he spoke, could put the issue more clearly. In a few moments, therefore, I intend to resume my seat. I will simply repeat that if these men cannot secure employment, after the promises that have been made them, it is up to the government, through financing and through legislation, to ensure to all the unemployed of Canada that the money is available to care for them on the best possible, reasonable actuarial basis.
On this note I intend to resume my seat, anticipating that the government will announce today or in the immediate future plans which will meet these requirements. If it should fail to do so, then it will have to accept responsibility for betraying the trust of those who voted for it and who sent over 200 of its supporters here at the last election.


I have had the opportunity, today and yesterday, of listening to hon. members speaking on this motion to go into supply and on the amendment and the subamendment which have been submitted.
It seems to me that the main charge which most opposition speakers have laid against the government is that there has been mismanagement of the fund and mismanagement of the Unemployment Insurance Act. I want to say here and now there has been no mismanagement of the fund; there has been no mismanagement of the Unemployment Insurance Act. In the past, when bonds held by the unemployment insurance commission

were sold, prior to the time this government took office, there were always losses on the sale of bonds.


Profits.


There were losses of the sale of bonds during that period of time.


These were forced losses; that is the difference.


As far as the act itself is concerned, the act was passed by parliament, and the amendments which have been introduced to that act have also been passed by parliament. I want to say that at no time, to my knowledge, has there been any mismanagement on the part of the administration of the unemployment insurance commission. They have always endeavoured to adhere strictly to the letter of the act and, as I said, that act was passed and approve