Mr. Speaker, I rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 to request the unanimous consent of the House for the proposal of a motion concerning the budget. The urgency concerns the statement alleged to have been made by the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) on his provincial election trip through southern Ontario last night. In this statement, which could involve a serious breach of parliamentary ethics, he is reported by Canadian Press to have given some details of the contents of the budget by saying that the forthcoming federal budget will bring higher taxes to restrain the economy. Thereby he scooped the Minister of Finance (Mr. Turner). I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Saint-Hyacinthe (Mr. Wagner):
That this House call upon the Minister of Finance to introduce his budget at once, to prevent further leaks of the contents of that budget.


Order, please. The motion proposed pursuant to Standing Order 43 cannot be presented without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 43, I seek the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
The Minister of National Health and Welfare (Mr. Lalonde) having very clearly stated in the House last night that the bill he will shortly introduce on the old age security pension will concern only spouses aged between 60 and 65, I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Roberval (Mr. Gauthier):
That in the opinion of the House the needs of other groups, widowers, widows, single and others between 55 and 65 years of age should be taken into consideration without delay and the Minister of National Health and Welfare requested to bring forward immediately a bill providing income security for those groups whose situation is truly difficult.


Order, please. The House has heard the hon. member's motion. Pursuant to Standing Order 43, it requires the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


There being no unanimous consent, the motion cannot be put.


Mr. Speaker, I ask leave of the House to present a motion under Standing Order 43 on a matter of growing urgency. My motion concerns the work stoppages in the Post Office that are spreading across Canada, creating havoc in communications and causing economic chaos. In view of the contradictory statements being made with respect to the present state of collective bargaining for a new contract with the Canadian Union of Postal Workers, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Winnipeg South Centre (Mr. McKenzie):
That the government and the Canadian Union of Postal Workers get to the bargaining table immediately, to work out a fair and equitable contract that will include adequate safeguards for the postal workers, including the impact of technological change, so that Canadians might be assured the high quality of postal service that has been denied them for the past eight years.


Order, please. The motion proposed pursuant to Standing Order 43 cannot be presented without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, the minister agreed.

May 23, 1975
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, my question is for that not so artful dodger, the Minister of National Health and Welfare, about his responsibilities under the Food and Drugs Act, a federal statute which makes no reference to provincial inspectors or even to federal inspectors, but which requires the Minister of National Health and Welfare to ensure that food not fit for human consumption is not peddled to Canadians. Since the minister freely admitted yesterday that his department was aware of the problems with regard to meat inspection in the province of Quebec at least two years ago, I ask the minister pointedly not what he has done in terms of discussions, but what he has done to draw this problem to the attention of the government of the province of Quebec and to the attention of his colleague, the Minister of Agriculture, so that these very evident shortcomings in the meat inspection system in that province could be corrected?


As I have already indicated, as soon as rumours started going round some two years ago, the inspectors of my department started to look into them in order to check whether there was any truth to them; upon finding concrete evidence that there was, they immediately asked the appropriate police force to make the necessary inquiry. The Quebec government was advised of the matter at that time, since the Quebec police force as well as the Royal Canadian Mounted Police were involved in the police inquiry of which we see the results today.


will ask the minister another question with respect to his responsibilities under this act. What action has he taken with regard to canvassing the situation in other provinces? Having been well aware of the situation in the province of Quebec, what action has he taken with respect to other provinces to ensure that the kind of laxity and confusion which has been indicated in Quebec does not exist elsewhere in Canada?


As I have just indicated, with regard to the situation in Quebec, none of the packing plants implicated are inspected by the federal Department of Agriculture. At the present time, there are no indications that packing plants in other provinces under the jurisdiction of the federal government are involved in practices similar to

those discovered in Quebec. However, should any come to light, my officials will look into the matter immediately and take whatever steps are necessary. Still, I must remind the Leader of the Opposition that a number of those packing plants are inspected by representatives of the federal Department of Agriculture. Other are inspected by provincial inspectors; in still other cases, some provinces have delegated to federal inspectors of the Department of Agriculture the responsibility of checking operations of packing plants, within their respective jurisdictions.


Now that we are aware of the shocking situation in the province of Quebec, I will give the minister one further chance to tell this House whether he has conducted any survey with regard to the quality of inspection in the other provinces and whether he has done anything at all-not to pass off excuses or red herrings about federal inspection-to discharge his responsibility. Is he in a position to tell this House that meat is in fact being adequately inspected in the other provinces today?


I have already answered that question, Mr. Speaker, when the hon. Leader of the Opposition put his first one.


Mr. Speaker, in view of the statement made yesterday by the Quebec minister of agriculture that the Minister of National Health and Welfare was shirking his responsibility and not discharging his statutory responsibilities to the people of Quebec, what is the minister now doing in light of the daily revelations in Quebec, the latest of which indicated that prepared meats are made from contaminated or diseased beef? What is the minister doing now to put at ease the minds of consumers in the province of Quebec that meat has been properly inspected to protect them?


Mr. Speaker, I still believe that the best proof that steps-have been taken is the investigation going on right now in Montreal. And, as the hon. member knows, the packing plants concerned have had their permit withdrawn by the Quebec government. As for the statement of the Quebec minister of agriculture, I am not aware of it. I shall look into what he may have said but it has nothing to do with the facts which everybody can check. Institutions being investigated at the present time fall under the Quebec government's jurisdiction.


A supplementary question. The inquiry taking place in Quebec is a provincial inquiry. The minister cannot come to the House and tell us that he has no jurisdiction because clearly under the Food and Drugs Act he has complete jurisdiction over all packing houses. I ask the minister, in discharging that responsibility, if he will do as much now as he did last fall when Canadians were
May 23, 1975

faced with the prospect of eating contaminated hamburger. Will he give the House some assurance that an effort is being made to muster all the inspection capabilities he has, to send inspectors into the province of Quebec and discharge his own responsibilities and lay charges where they are warranted?


Mr. Speaker, surely the hon. member's suggestion does not deserve to be retained for the simple reason that, as I mentioned before, it is because of the work carried out by my inspectors in the province of Quebec and the current investigation that results have been obtained. The time to send investigators into the field has been long gone: the job was done over the past two years with the co-operation of the police force concerned and some of my departmental inspectors.


A final supplementary. If the minister now tells the House that the present revelations are as a result of the work done by his department perhaps he can explain to the House why he has not laid charges himself under the Food and Drugs Act.


Mr. Speaker, this is probably the third time the hon. member has asked this question. The reply is quite clear and simple: before instituting proceedings, we must collect the necessary evidence if we do not want to see our petition get thrown out of court. This is exactly what we have been doing for the past few months and the case is before the board of inquiry. I have personally contacted the chairman of this board. He fully agrees that we should let the investigation continue so as to bring out all the facts, before instituting legal procedures, which might otherwise cause prejudice to the current investigation.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the Minister of Finance along the lines of questions I put to him yesterday about the layoffs at the Firestone Rubber plant in Whitby and whether this could be attributed to the reduction in tariffs by the Canadian government. I should like to ask the minister now if he is aware that the deficit from the balance of trade for the sale and purchase of tires in the United States which has been running in the neighbourhood of $25 million a year last year jumped to $155 million and for the first two months of this year was $24 million. In other words, if the trend continues we will have a deficit in the balance of payments of more than $150 million. What inquiries are being made and what does the
Oral Questions
minister and his colleague the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce propose to do about this very serious situation?


Mr. Speaker, pursuant to the hon. member's questions yesterday I asked that the facts be brought to me. Because of the additional aspects brought forward by the hon. member this morning I will have further consultations with the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, and in view of the fact that the lay-off of almost 300 people at Whitby is not the only lay-off in the industry as there will be more in other cities in Ontario resulting in close to 2,000 people being laid off, will the minister discuss this matter with his colleague if he has not already done so? Also, what discussions are being held, if any, with representatives of the rubber industry about the problems of our worsening trade with the United States in tires and tubes?


Mr. Speaker, I understand there have been discussions with the industry but I should like to bring the whole matter up to date and get in touch with the hon. member.


Would the minister discuss with his colleague, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, the necessity, let alone the desirability, of meeting with representatives of the industry to attempt to get some assurance from them that new investment in Canada over the next few years will be at least proportional to our share of purchasing on the North American market because, as I have indicated, in recent years there has been a very sharp decrease in our share and a worsening in the situation of the whole industry and of workers?


On that aspect as well, my recollection is that certain representatives of the unions concerned have been in touch with our people.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct a question to the Minister of National Health and Welfare.
The minister says that he has held an inquiry regarding the meat market and it is still going on. Has the minister considered setting up an inquiry regarding the processing and packing of imported butter to protect the consumer against the sale of adulterated butter, to know if the consumer eats really pure butter at 50 per cent or 100 per cent?

May 23, 1975
Oral Questions


It is obvious, Mr. Speaker, that this question should be directed to my colleague, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. It is no doubt a matter of fraudulent publicity. I suggest the question be put to the minister when he will be in the House.

will he indicate to the House if the government will take a definitive position on guidelines on or prior to June 23?


It is my
understanding that further technical meetings have been held. I gave a full report on the consensus process in the House in response to a motion put by the parliamentary leader of the NDP and that was debated last week.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance. As it is now over 40 days since the minister announced he would likely bring down the budget before the end of May and now that the minister's efforts to achieve consensus among labour and business have subsided, can the minister tell the House whether he has been successful in achieving consensus among the Prime Minister, his party House leader and himself as to when the budget will be presented?


Mr. Speaker, without accepting the tone of the preamble to the question asked by the hon. gentleman, I have to report to the House that because of the recent calling of the summit meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization at Brussels, the Prime Minister must be out of the country from May 27 to 31. Thus, he will not be available for the necessary consultations on the final decisions for an early budget as we had hoped. Shortly after his return from the NATO meeting, I myself am required to be in Paris to chair the special sessions of the interim committee of the International Monetary Fund. That committee has been assigned the responsibility for international monetary development in world trading and monetary patterns which are very important to Canada, especially following the oil crisis last year.
In the circumstances I now intend, after my return and after a period of intensive final preparation-


And prayer.


-to present the budget to the House a month from today on Monday evening, June 23.


In view of the uncertainty concerning the status of the consensus discussions shown by conflicting statements by the Prime Minister and the Acting Prime Minister today, would the minister indicate if the government plans to hold further consensus talks between now and June 23, will the minister be in charge of the discussions and, more specifically,


In our slowing economy with its rising unemployment as reflected in UIC payments now being predicted by the C. D. Howe Institute and the Financial Times as being $3.3 billion to $3.5 billion this year compared with $2 billion last year, would the minister indicate whether the Prime Minister made a premature comment when he said that taxes would be rising in the budget in that rising taxes would mean a restrictive budget? In truth, is that a responsible option at the present time for the minister?


Mr. Speaker, I did not hear the Prime Minister's comment.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Acting Prime Minister. It is a request. Will the Acting Prime Minister convey to the Prime Minister the view of this party that he confine himself for the rest of his tour to things with which he is familiar, such as swimming pools and chandeliers, and leave the serious issues of the economy to the Minister of Finance who, for all his defects, still has the constitutional responsibility?


Mr. Speaker, I suggest to the House leader of the official opposition that all the expertise on swimming pools and chandeliers is on the other side of the House.


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Acting Prime Minister. Can he advise whether the Minister of Labour's comments on Wednesday that "Ontario authorities were strangely unhelpful" regarding allegations concerning the SIU were made with the full approval of the government or whether, in view of the specific denial issued yesterday by the acting solicitor general for the government of Ontario, will the Acting Prime Minister take this opportunity to clarify the unfortunate impression created by the Minister of Labour's remarks on Wednesday?


Mr. Speaker, I have no correction to make to the statement made by the Minister of Labour. The situation was canvassed many times in cabinet. What the Minister of Labour said was fully justified.


Yesterday the Hon. John Clement said in a statement, and I quote:
All the information provided in this House by the hon. member from High Park on November 19 was forwarded to senior federal officials on December 10. Information related to charges made under the Criminal Code is in the public domain and has been freely available to federal authorities since last May.
In view of that statement, how can the government say today that the province of Ontario did not co-operate with the federal government? Can the Acting Prime Minister give us an explanation in view of that specific denial yesterday?


Mr. Speaker, this question was raised on many occasions. The Minister of Labour and the Minister of Justice sought information that would justify the kind of inquiry the government of Ontario had been demanding. The information we received came very reluctantly. It was not very full. As a result, we had to wait to make our decision to see what the basis was for the charges that were being made. I am sure the hon. member would agree that in matters like this, one must proceed on the basis of having as much information as possible. I support what the Minister of Labour said, namely that the information was scanty and it was slow in coming. I think the Minister of Labour was fully justified in the statement he made.


Hear, hear!


Will the Acting Prime Minister undertake today to give to this House details and minutes of the requests, communications and exchanges by telephone calls or otherwise between the federal government and the government of the province of Ontario to justify the allegations made by the Minister of Labour on Wednesday and reiterated by the Acting Prime Minister in this House today?


Mr. Speaker, the government authorized the Minister of Labour to make an investigation. This investigation will go forward. Whether it would be advisable under these circumstances to comply with this request, I am not quite sure. At any rate, I can assure the hon. member that the information provided by Ontario was of the kind that had been described by the Minister of Labour. I am very happy that now at last an inquiry is under way.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, a moment ago the Acting Prime Minister referred to swimming pools. I would ask him this. The Prime Minister stated he had no knowledge as to the donors- and unfortunately I was not in the House yesterday afternoon-but a few days ago it was stated that the Department of National Revenue had this information. I ask him whether on Monday he would produce the names of these so-called philanthropists who made the contribution totalling $200,000 for a swimming pool in the Prime Minister's home yard and who, before they made the contribution, sought and secured the consent of the Department of National Revenue that whatever they contributed could be deducted from their income taxes. In other words, the people of Canada would pay for the pool? Since the Prime Minister has told the House that he does not have this information but that the Department of National Revenue has it, can this information be made available so that the sham endeavoured to be perpetrated on the Canadian people that the pool is a gift when, in fact, it will be paid for ultimately by the Canadian people may be exposed?


Hear, hear!


The
right hon. member knows very well that one of the kinds of information which is not made available at any time concerns the tax returns of any individual. This applies when gifts are made to the Crown. Many gifts are made to the Crown; many people were ready to make contributions, for instance, to the residence of the Leader of the Official Opposition. Those details were not revealed at the time. No one raised questions of this niggling kind about the generosity of Canadians who wanted to contribute to our parliamentary system by providing a house for the Leader of the Opposition, and I am surprised that the right hon. gentleman should now be so concerned about a matter in which he showed so little interest some time ago.


Subterfuge answers like that get one nowhere. The people of Canada have a right to know who these individuals are so that they will be able to see, whether, later on, some of them are appointed senators.


Hear, hear!


Or get more dredging contracts.


Mr. Speaker, I had intended to put a question to the Minister of National Defence, but in his absence I will direct it to the President of the Treasury Board. Can the minister inform the House when the 17 nurses locked out for the last two weeks by
6052

May 23, 1975
Oral Questions
the National Defence Medical Centre will be returned to work or, alternatively, when separation certificates will be issued to enable these nurses to qualify for unemployment insurance?


Mr. Speaker, I made an inquiry. All nurses who were permanent employees have been rehired. Some of them were temporary employees. As there is not so much work at this time, they were dismissed. As to their dismissal certificate, I asked that it be issued bearing the date of the day on which the government dismissed them.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources I should like to direct a question to the Acting Prime Minister concerning the decision to purchase the heavy water plant in Nova Scotia. In view of the fact that Canadian General Electric contracted to provide Atomic Energy of Canada with something in the neighbourhood of 4,000 tons of heavy water over a 12'/2-year period, and in view of the fact that in the five years of operation CGE has reportedly only supplied one-quarter of this amount, has the shortfall been considered in arriving at the purchase price of CGE's Port Hawkesbury plant?


I should explain that both the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources and the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce are attending a meeting at the present time having to do with the conservation of energy; they regret they cannot be here in the House today. I will pass on this inquiry to the minister concerned who will reply when he returns.


Thank you. I should like the Acting Prime Minister to pass on, also, the following supplementary. In view of the fact that this heavy water plant operated by private industry has never produced at capacity due to technical difficulties-over the first four years it reportedly operated at less than 50 per cent capacity-and in view of the fact that the purchase deal between AECL and CGE includes $5 million for technical renovation paid by AECL, can the minister assure us that payment of the full purchase price of approximately $93 million is contingent upon the plant operating at full capacity?


I will pass on that question also.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. Has the government, formally or informally, protested to France about the resumption of nuclear testing?


The
Canadian government has made its views known to France on a number of occasions. We protested very strongly against tests in the atmosphere. As a member of the non-proliferation treaty, we have urged France to join with us in trying to control the spread of nuclear weapons and to co-operate with other members. So far, France has decided not to be a member. We are, of course, glad that tests in the atmosphere have been ended, but we regret it should be considered necessary to go on testing in any environment.


Perhaps the hon. gentleman did not understand my question. I will repeat it. Has Canada protested, either formally or informally, now, to the government of France, with regard to its planned resumption of nuclear testing?


I would doubt it, but I could make inquiries. The attitude of the government of Canada is so well known to France that it is not necessary for us to reiterate our position each time tests are underway. We also objected to testing in the United States, the Soviet Union and China.


Mr. Speaker, my question is supplementary to those directed to the Minister of State for Urban Affairs by the hon. member for York-Simcoe.


Order. Unless the questions are of extreme urgency I am reluctant to allow them, bearing in mind that the hon. lady is one of the initiators of the opposition motion today under which this whole subject will be discussed. Unless there are very valid reasons, I would prefer to defer questions on that topic in the interest of other hon. members present.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Supply and Services. The Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence both made promises prior to the July 8 election that 800 aerospace jobs would be created in Winnipeg. Can the minister announce when new contracts will be announced so as to create these jobs?


Mr. Speaker, we have already announced some
May 23, 1975

contracts and I hope that I shall soon be able to announce a new contract with a company from Winnipeg. I must say that as far as aeronautics are concerned the Winnipeg area is privileged in comparison with the other parts of Canada.


As the CAE plant in Winnipeg is laying off its employees-there is now only a skeleton staff left- will any of these new contracts be allotted to that plant?


Mr. Speaker, I must say that Transair, for instance, hired many employees and will continue to do so during the coming year. Bristol Aerospace engaged more workers than last year and, I repeat again, the general aeronautical situation in Winnipeg is much more advantageous than in any other region of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Manpower and Immigration. In the light of the ever increasing unemployment rate in the Atlantic provinces, is the minister in a position today to announce what special efforts are being made, or what new programs may be implemented, to deal with this serious situation?


I am not in a position today to announce a program of the nature referred to by the hon. member. Obviously, these matters are under serious and constant review. When a decision is made it will be announced in the House.


Having in mind the tragic unemployment rate on Cape Breton Island where it is ranging at the moment between 15 and 20 per cent, has the minister made special representations to the Minister of Finance regarding this serious question so that possibly after June 23 something may be done?


Mr. Speaker, I do not think I could elaborate on my previous answer, except to reiterate that these matters are under very serious consideration, reflecting our concern for them.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport. May I ask the minister whether the air fare increases will go into effect on
Oral Questions
Monday regardless whether or not a decision has been handed down at that time by the Canadian Transport Commission?


Mr. Speaker, I have no reason to believe they are not going to be implemented.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker, which relates to an article in the Montreal Gazette this morning which said an increase would be brought down regardless whether or not a decision has been made at that time. Since the minister has the power, with cabinet approval, under section 64(1) of the National Transportation Act to suspend or disallow the increases, why is he not taking steps to do so? If he is taking steps to do so, would he report to the House?


Mr. Speaker, I think I have already mentioned to the House what steps I have taken, in my discussions with the airlines, in order to protect those who are located in the extreme parts of this country. Outside of that, the hon. member has only to look at the financial situation of the airlines to see there is only one way to improve the situation, and that is to increase fares.


Mr. Speaker, since unemployment increases at an alarming rate, especially in the province of Quebec and in my area, may I ask the Minister of Manpower and Immigration whether he plans to authorize in the immediate future the extension of LIP projects now under way and, secondly, to accept a certain number of others \*Glich have been presented and are extremely valuable, in order to reduce unemployment effects in Quebec with the assistance of private enterprise?


Mr. Speaker, it is very similar to the previous question asked by another hon. member a few minutes ago. I would have to say that it would be raising false hopes for sponsors of LIP projects to expect an extension past the period for which their contract calls. Any other measures that might be decided upon, as I indicated earlier, will be announced in the House in due course.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question for the Minister of Finance.
A moment ago, the Minister of Finance informed the House that he will bring down his budget on June 23, that is 30 days from today. I should like to ask him whether he will consider in the meantime the fact that unemployment has become an excessively serious problem and that considerable funds will be earmarked for the Department of Manpower and Immigration to implement many valuable
29 561-39'/2

May 23, 1975
Oral Questions
local initiatives programs, because we don't want any other.


Mr. Speaker, my colleague, the Minister of Manpower and Immigration, and I are keeping in rather close consultation.


Mr. Speaker, I want to put a question to the Postmaster General, if he can give me his attention for a few moments.
Yesterday the postal system was disrupted again in Quebec and especially in Montreal by a new sudden illness of the employees in that area. Could the Postmaster General inform the House of the state of health of these employees, particularly in Montreal, and does he intend to request a royal commission of inquiry, perhaps medical, or to place the union under the trusteeship of a responsible person, in order to put an end to the troubles we have known in the province of Quebec, particularly as regards the postal system?


Mr. Speaker, I have been informed that the workers are suffering from what they call the "Mackasey flu". I do not know whether it is of very short duration or a prolonged illness. We do not want anyone back on the job who is ill; we may have to provide adequate medical facilities in order to make certain that they are not back on the job unless in excellent health. In the meantime, I think we must show a little patience and understanding of the frustration of these workers, who have been without any visible sign of a collective agreement for six months because their union negotiators have been preoccupied with the problem in Montreal, rather than with what should be preoccupying them, which is obtaining a collective agreement, as suggested by the hon. member for Brandon-Souris.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. It has been my experience that the government has every right to be very proud of the federal government inspection services and staff that it provides in the province of British Columbia. From recent events it is very evident that a wide variance exists in the quality and integrity of this service across Canada. Can the minister assure the House that the federal government inspection personnel and services in Quebec are as responsible and have as much integrity as those in British Columbia?


Mr. Speaker, I can give that complete and total assurance to the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, may I direct a question to the Minister of Transport which arises out of the request by the truckers for payment of compensation as a result of losses suffered due to the freight rate freeze. Has the minister met with the trucking industry, has an agreement been reached as to the amount of compensation to be paid, and has the submission yet received cabinet approval?


Mr. Speaker, we did not, of course, have the same commitment to the trucking industry as we had to the railways, but I think there is a case to be made there. I received the submission of the trucking association and I also received a certain number of claims and letters from them-I do not know how many, but I think 30 or 35. I intend to bring the matter to the attention of the cabinet and try to resolve it.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Since these negotiations and discussions have been taking place for quite some time, can the minister indicate to the House when a formal announcement may be made and cabinet approval granted?


Mr. Speaker, I think the hon. member's guess is as good as mine, but as far as the Minister of Transport is concerned, it is going to go before cabinet very rapidly.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Health and is supplementary to that asked by my leader. In view of reports several weeks ago that hamburger sold in this country contained unacceptable amounts of contamination, bacterial contamination and otherwise, would the minister indicate what follow up studies have been made, whether a report has been presented to him and he has taken any action as a result of such report?


Mr. Speaker, I made a statement in the House on that matter several months ago, following which additional personnel had been appointed for that purpose. That personnel has carried out its work throughout the country, and in each identified case where a violation of the Food
May 23, 1975

and Drugs Act is found, proceedings are instituted according to the usual procedure.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. I wonder whether the minister would assure the House that Canadians are indeed getting hamburger that is up to standard and no longer the contaminated material that was previously sold?


Mr. Speaker, quite obviously, it is impossible for me to give such assurance concerning each and every establishment throughout the country. All I can say is that every available inspector within my department is at work and makes regular inquiries into this field and that every time some offense is discovered, prosecutions take place or action is taken to correct the situation.

Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of the Environment my question is directed to the Acting Prime Minister. It concerns the meeting of the International Whaling Commission scheduled for London in June. Since the present selective moratorium on whale killing to which Canada is a party, and which Canada supports, has the effect of only shifting the location of the kill and the species to be killed, and still drives whales toward extinction, will Canada at London press for a moratorium which will honour the unanimous agreement of the Stockholm Conference, of which Canada was also a party, for a ten-year ban on all whaling.


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. gentleman for the suggestion. It is a serious one and I will see that it is conveyed to the minister.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. Can the minister inform the House whether the Ministry of Transport provided an aircraft last month to take reporters and civil servants to Saskatoon to provide entertainment for the Saskatchewan Press Club?


I will try to get the information, Mr. Speaker. I do not have it at this moment.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Justice I wonder whether I could direct my question to the Acting Prime Minister. Is the Acting Prime Minister prepared to announce the appointment of a judge to fill a vacancy on the Supreme Court of the Province of Newfoundland.


Jack Marshall.


Mr. Speaker, at the last cabinet meeting we did approve some appointments. I am not quite certain whether these included a judge for Newfoundland, but as soon as the appointment is made it will certainly be announced.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of Finance. In preparation for his budget is the minister considering, instead of the mandatory controls he seems to feel may be necessary, a form of refundable tax on wages and profits that are above certain guidelines similar to that used during the Second World War.


Mr. Speaker, I am glad to have the hon. gentleman's point of view.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Transport. In view of the fact that the directors and staff of the Society for the Study of the Heritage of Canada admitted in bankruptcy testimony that they travelled across Canada and to Europe both first class and economy on free passes issued by Air Canada, would the minister inform the House if the issuance of free passes to travel agencies and others is a general practice of Air Canada endorsed by the minister?


Mr. Speaker, I think it is a general practice of all airlines to

May 23, 1975
Oral Questions
give passes to travel agencies. I know that some passes have been given. I regret that the hon. member for Hamilton West is not here, because I think he was one of the officials of Heritage Canada and he might tell us how he travelled.


Mr. Speaker, without accepting the remarks of the Minister of Transport with regard to the hon. member for Hamilton West which I consider to be a low blow, I should like to ask the minister if he has some indication of the cost to the taxpayers of all these free passes.


Order, please. Surely that information should be sought in another way.


Mr. Speaker, my question is addressed to the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development. In view of the fact that the Canadian government has a policy of Canadian content in respect of the construction of pipelines within Canada, has the government issued any Canadian content guidelines in connection with the plant construction and engineering services along these pipelines in the territories.


Not that I am aware of, Mr. Speaker, but it is certainly something very pertinent. As the hon. member for Calgary Centre knows, we have been discussing this situation vis-a-vis Canadian participation in the department and with the oil companies involved. I feel very strongly that the prime control should be Canadian, maximizing Canadian content.


Mr. Speaker, would the minister inquire into the truth or otherwise of the report that a contract was given in the last two weeks to a firm in Calgary which turned the work over to non-Canadian engineers in view of the very high quality of Canadian engineering in this field.


I will be very happy to look into that. I am not aware of any Calgary company receiving such a contract.


Mr. Speaker, the Solicitor General and the Minister of Justice being absent, I wish to ask a question of the Acting Prime Minister.
About a dozen days ago the Quebec Justice Minister announced that he would recommend to the federal government and to the responsible authorities annulment of a pardon already granted Mr. Desjardins, a well known personality in Quebec construction circles. Could the minister tell us if the government or the minister in charge has received such an official request and, secondly, if such is the case, could he tell us what will be the attitude taken by the government or if a decision has already been made with regard to the request from the Quebec Minister of Justice?


Mr. Speaker, I am not aware of any such request. The minister will be here on Monday and will, I hope, reply to the question.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to direct a question to the President of the Treasury Board. On May 9, 1975 I put certain questions to the President of the Treasury Board in the course of his estimates with regard to the contract given to Price, Rubin without Treasury Board approval. I have not yet had an answer from the minister. Earlier I said I would give him an opportunity to give me an answer by letter if he wished. Is the minister prepared to answer that series of questions.


Mr. Speaker, I take pleasure in sending the letter immediately to the hon. member.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the Minister of National Health and Welfare a further question about this very shocking incident where apparently putrid meat continued to move on to the market in Quebec some two years after the minister's inspectors were aware of this. In view of the power of the inspectors of the minister to seize and

hold from the market meat that is unfit for human consumption, what instructions did the minister give his inspectors to keep this meat off the market while the investigation was going on.


Mr. Speaker, it was an extremely complex inquiry, once again, which involved criminal elements as well as following up and conducting the inquiry once the first indications being identified were referred to the police. Therefore, the police forces conducted the inquiry until they were able to get sufficient evidence for the Inquiry Commission on Organized Crime to proceed.


Horn Robert L. Stanfield (Leader of the Opposition):
Mr. Speaker, that is pure evasion. I should like to ask the minister whether he would consult with the government of Quebec and seek permission of the government of Quebec to table in the House any communication between himself or the leader of the Government of Canada and a minister or the Prime Minister of the province of Quebec on the subject of the inspection of meat in that province during the last two years.
Mr. Speaker, as far as I know, there were no written exchanges of that kind.


I rise on a point of order, Mr. Speaker. I wish to refer to a question I asked during the course of the question period. On May 9, 1975, I asked the President of the Treasury Board certain very specific questions. He said that he had the answer to those questions in a letter he delivered to me. I will publicly release the contents of the letter, but I say to you, Mr. Speaker, that this is a distortion of the whole purpose of the estimates and the whole purpose of the question period. The President of the Treasury Board should be ashamed of himself for not dealing fairly with this House. This is what he said-


Order, please. The hon. member realizes that the quality of any answer given by any minister at any time is not a subject for debate at this time.


The quality is like that of the meat in Quebec.


Mr. Speaker, I rise to speak to the question of privilege which is now before you. I appreciate that you propose to rule on the matter next Monday. In view of the way in which the hon. member for York-Simcoe attempted yesterday to join his question of privilege-which you have ruled invalid-with my own, I want to make it clear that I am not making any complaint about anything that took place outside this chamber, in committee, either as to the conduct of the hon. member in committee or the
Order Paper Questions
procedure of the committee. The question that I raised relates entirely to the language of the hon. member in this House.


Mr. Speaker, my question of privilege is in response to the question of privilege raised recently by the hon. member for York Centre. I just want to point out to you, Mr. Speaker, that I received a copy of the letter which the hon. member sent to you and in my opinion he appears to be reversing the position that he had taken earlier in his question of privilege. Today I felt that he confirmed that reversal, and I would draw Your Honour's attention to the actual request that he made in his initial question of privilege, which was that the ruling be referred to the Standing Committee on Privileges and Elections and that nothing be done concerning language in this House, as the hon. member has indicated today.


I propose to consider all elements of the question raised by hon. members and will make a decision at three o'clock on Monday afternoon.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Mr. Speaker, the following questions will be answered today: Nos. 1,983, 2,032, 2,121, 2,153, 2,158, 2,268, 2,360 and 2,377.
Mr. Speaker, if question No. 1,116 and starred question No.1,910 could be made orders for return, these returns would be tabled immediately.
I ask, Mr. Speaker, that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Was a contract awarded by the Department of Supply and Services in September 1973 to Systems Approach Ltd., Ottawa, Ontario for consulting services at Ottawa and, if so (a) for what purpose (b) were tenders requested on this contract?


Yes. (a) This contract was placed on behalf of the Department of National Defence to develop an analytical model which would indicate the absolute and time-dependent effects of various Forces-development decisions in relation to future DND budgetary requirements, (b) Tenders were not called for this requirement. DND requested the services of this specific contractor due to the time constraint and because he was the only known con-

May 23, 1975
Order Paper Questions
tractor possessing the combined capabilities needed to minimize technical and financial risk. This required experience with military problems and a composite knowledge of input-output analysis, computerized information systems and economics related to this subject.


1.	(a) How much money is allocated annually for the installation and maintenance of tropical plants in all government buildings in the City of Ottawa (b) what is the breakdown for each department (i) yearly (ii) monthly, if this is not simply a twelve month average?
2.	What is (a) the length of the contracts (b) how often and when are they normally tendered?
3.	Who is eligible to tender for (a) new installations (b) maintenance contracts for existing installations?


1. (a)
There is no annual allocation of money specifically for this purpose. However, in the fiscal year 1974-75 the Department of Public Works expended $222,621 for the purchase and maintenance of plants in government buildings in the city of Ottawa, (b) (i) The breakdown of expenditures by the department for the fiscal year 1974-75 is as follows: Defence Research Board, $798; Department of Public Works, $1,546; Energy, Mines & Resources, $42,959; External Affairs, $655; Finance & Treasury Board, $300; Industry, Trade & Commerce, $375; Department of Insurance, $3,600; Ministry of Transport, $11,919; National Health & Welfare, $60; National Research Council, $8,555; National Revenue, $45,994; House of Commons, $755; Privy Council, $1,280; Public Service Commission, $12,369; Secretary of State, $15; Science & Technology, $613; Solicitor General, $14,899; Statistics Canada, $71,570; Supply & Services, $3,159; Royal Canadian Mounted Police, $1,200; Total $222,621. (ii) Not applicable.
2.	(a) Contracts for plant maintenance vary from one month to several years in length, (b) Maintenance contracts are tendered on an "as required basis".
3.	(a) New installations of more than $100 are purchased through the Department of Supply & Services. Installations up to $100 are acquired through local purchase order, (b) Maintenance contracts in excess of $5,000 are publicly advertised and everyone is eligible to tender. Contracts under $5,000 are awarded subsequent to invited tenders from firms judged to be capable of performing the work involved.


1.	In the Province of Quebec, how many employers were prosecuted under Clause 146 of the Unemployment Insurance Regulations in (a) 1973 (b) 1974?
2.	How many of such prosecutions were successful?


Insofar as the Unemployment Insurance Commission is concerned: 1. (a) in 1973, one prosecution; (b) in 1974, seven prosecutions; Total: eight prosecutions.
2. In the eight (8) cases, the accused employers were found guilty and fined as follows: one was fined, $25.00;

one was fined, $50.00; two were fined $100.00 each; two were fined $300.00 each; two were fined $500.00 each; Total: $1,875.00.


Can a physician's decision be overruled by an officer of UIC and, if so, as of what date?


Yes. However, the decision is appealable to a board of referees and in certain cases to an umpire who is a judge of the Federal Court.


1.	Has UIC discontinued the Claimants Assistance Programme as provided for in section 106 of the Act and, if so (a) on what date (b) for what reason?
2.	Has the Claimants Assistance Programme been replaced by the Special Interview Programme and, if so, on what date?


1. No. (a) Not applicable, (b) Not
applicable.
2. No.


1.	What areas of New Brunswick will be sprayed to prevent spruce budworm damage this year?
2.	On what date will spraying take place and with what chemicals?
3.	How much money will the government contribute to such spraying in New Brunswick?


1. Under the authority of the government of New Brunswick, approximately 6.5 million acres of fir-spruce forests mainly in central and northern New Brunswick will be sprayed in 1975 to prevent budworm damage.
2.	The bulk of the spraying will be done in late May or early June depending on host tree development and weather. Materials to be used include Fenitrothion, Phos-phamidon, Matacil and Dylox which have all been registered for use in Canada in 1975.
3.	No funds for pest control assistance were included in the 1975-76 estima