Mr. Speaker, on Friday, December 7, the Prime Minister made a statement in the House to the effect that the government would tax away 100 per cent of additional revenues accruing to the oil companies as a result of any oil price increases. This sent the Toronto Stock Exchange oil price index crashing 109 points and caused panic in the Toronto and New York investment communities before the right hon. gentleman's office could clarify the position. I would therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Vercheres (Mr. Loiselle):
That in light of the Prime Minister's continuing obsession with contradictory and confusing statements, from now on the North American investment community be instructed to check with the office of the Prime Minister before believing anything he says.


Oh, oh!


Mr. Speaker, 1 rise on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity under the provisions of Standing Order 43. Today marks the thirtieth anniversary of the abolition of appeals to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council of Great Britain, thus making the Supreme Court of Canada the ultimate appeal tribunal for Canadian law. What is not generally recognized is that the Supreme Court of Canada, unlike the supreme court of the United States, is not a constitutional court but merely a creation of Parliament and, therefore, subject to abolition by an act of this legislature.
In order to provide our supreme tribunal with formal as well as substantial independence from political institutions so that it can enhance its role both as a court of appeal and as a constitutional arbiter, I ask leave to move, seconded by the hon. member for Windsor-Walkerville (Mr. MacGuigan):
That this House urge the government to introduce a constitutional amendment making the Supreme Court a constitutional court fully protected by entrenchment in the British North America Act.


Under the provisions of Standing Order 43, unanimous consent of the House is required before the motion can be presented. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. Whereas the residents of communities in the Mackenzie Delta area are experiencing severe hardship as a result of power shortages caused by faulty generating equipment, and whereas the Northern Canada Power Commission has blamed its inability to properly repair and maintain this equipment on lack of funds, I would move, seconded by the hon. member for Skeena (Mr. Fulton):
That emergency funds be provided to NCPC so that they can immediately carry out necessary repairs and restore full service to the affected communities.


Hon. members have heard the motion proposed. Is there unanimous consent that it be presented?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise, under Standing Order 43, to seek the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that a company by the name of S.C.A. in the United States has been dumping thousands of gallons of PCBs and other harmful chemicals into the Niagara River on a daily basis, and in view of the fact that the continuation of this method of disposal has a potentially harmful and lasting

December 10, 1979
effect on the health of all citizens, Canadian and American, who live along the river, 1 move, seconded by the hon. member for Niagara Falls (Mr. Froese):
That the government express its concern that the S.C.A. Company of the United States has been dumping thousands of gallons of PCBs and other harmful chemicals into the Niagara River on a daily basis, and urge the government of the United States to look directly into this matter and take what action is necessary so as to alleviate the potential danger of such a continued disposal method of harmful chemicals.


This motion can be presented for debate, under the terms of Standing Order 43, only with the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


The House has heard the terms of the motion. Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the said motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.

[ Translation]
Mr. Speaker, under the provisions of Standing Order 43, I ask for the unanimous consent of the House to move a motion dealing with a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
In view of the fact that in a letter dated November 6, 1979, the Prime Minister (Mr. Clark) gave us assurances as to the gas and heating oil supplies for eastern Canada; considering the many inconsistent statements made by the Prime Minister since then; considering that the people of Quebec and the maritimes are facing uncertainty this winter, 1 move, seconded by the hon. member for Bellechasse (Mr. Lambert);
That, in the opinion of this House, an emergency debate should be held on oil supplies for this winter, in order to review and ascertain the situation by examining proposals or measures to ensure sufficient supplies to meet the needs of eastern Canada.


The House has heard the motion of the hon. member. Under the provisions of Standing Order 43, unanimous consent of the House is required before the motion can be presented. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, I rise under Standing Order 43 to ask for the unanimous consent of the House to introduce a motion on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity.
Considering that the Farm Credit Corporation uses its status as a Crown corporation as an excuse to ignore municipal bylaws, especially zoning bylaws, as happened recently in Cumberland where the Farm Credit Corporation divided a piece of agricultural land to resell the lots at residential and speculative rates, contrary to the zoning bylaws of that municipality; considering that it is both urgent and pressing that this practice be stopped, I move, seconded by the hon. member for Vaudreuil (Mr. Herbert):
That the Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for the Farm Credit Corporation, order the corporation to refrain forthwith from such practice and that a letter be sent to assure the municipality of Cumberland that such action will not be repeated.


Under Standing Order 43, such a motion cannot be introduced for debate without unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.

[ English ]


Mr. Speaker, my motion, under Standing Order 43, on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity comes in light of the fact that Talonbooks Ltd., of Vancouver, has basically existed on Canada Council grants and has published much material which is greatly questioned by Canadians. I therefore move, seconded by the hon. member for Grey-Simcoe (Mr. Mitges):
That this Parliament urge the Canada Council not to announce a final decision respecting extended grants to Talonbooks Ltd. until such time as both the council and the publishing company have appeared before the Standing Committee on Communications and Culture.
I might add that I understand the Canada Council will be reviewing that in the next three days.


The motion as presented cannot be put without the unanimous consent of the House. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.
December 10, 1979


Mr. Speaker, 1 rise under the provisions of Standing Order 43 on a matter of urgent and pressing necessity. In view of the fact that independent gasoline dealers are being unfairly cut off their supplies by large multinational oil companies-specifically, 41 independent service stations will be out of gas this week in the Ottawa area because of these unfair market practices by Gulf Oil-I move, seconded by the hon. member for Selkirk-Inter-lake (Mr. Sargeant):
That the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources immediately investigate the current marketing practices of large oil companies in cutting off supplies to independent gasoline dealers, in order to stop their unfair and unethical practices.


The motion can be introduced for debate, under the terms of Standing Order 43, only upon unanimous consent. Is there unanimous consent?


Agreed.


No.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have a question for the Prime Minister. As we know, the Toronto Stock Exchange oil index dropped down 109 points in one day, which is a 4 per cent swing from high to low, due to the Prime Minister's incredible and unprecedented statement during question period on Friday that he would-
-ensure that virtually 100 per cent of the revenues that would go to the companies as a result of increases in energy prices will, in fact, be regained by the Government of Canada-
Will the Prime Minister be announcing any further economic measures in relation to corporate taxes?


Mr. Speaker, if the hon. member is seriously interested, I suggest that he pay attention to questions in the House and also be present here for the budget tomorrow.


That will be a clear indication to the Canadian people of how well the Prime Minister of Canada answers questions in the House. I have a supplementary question. Is the Prime Minister aware of the serious effect of such rash statements, and will he try to break the stock market single-
Oral Questions
handedly again soon with such irresponsible and careless timing of his remarks?


The answer to the first part of the question is yes, and the answer to the second part is no.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister, in the absence of the Minister of Energy, Mines and Resources, and it relates to the often stated proposal by his government of the intention to reach energy self-sufficiency by 1990.
1 would ask the Prime Minister how he rationalizes the sale of 3.75 trillion cubic feet of natural gas to the United States with the statement by the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources on oil and gas supplies of November, 1979, stating that additional sales to the United States would make Atlantic Canada continue to be dependent upon foreign oil supplies.


Mr. Speaker, 1 am not sure to which statement the hon. member is referring. It may well have referred to the statement of the Department of Energy, Mines and Resources with regard to heating oil, or to oil, and not to natural gas. In any event, since it came down in November, it was a statement which predated the publication of the National Energy Board report which indicated that the amounts recommended for export to the United States were clearly surplus to Canadian needs, and that those Canadian needs to which they were surplus included the possibility of significant substitution in eastern Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I would ask the Prime Minister about his statement on Friday not to extend the natural gas pipeline to the maritime provinces, thereby making the maritime provinces continually dependent upon offshore oil supplies and, once again, putting the Atlantic region in an inferior position to the rest of Canada.
1 would ask the Prime Minister why his government does not extend, right now, the natural gas pipeline into the maritime provinces, thereby enhancing the possibility of an early extraction of natural gas from the Sable Island area and reducing the dependence of the maritime provinces on offshore oil.


Mr. Speaker, 1 am sure the hon. member's misrepresentation of what I said was not intentional. Our position is that if there is a desire on the part of the maritime provinces to have a gas pipeline extended beyond Quebec City, we are prepared to consider that with the utmost seriousness. Indeed, if they agree, we would be prepared to go ahead with such an extension beyond Quebec City.


Hear, hear!


But we are not going to force down the throats of Atlantic Canada a pipeline that they do not want. So we are waiting for the agreement of the Atlantic provinces.

December 10, 1979
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, in a press release of December 4, the Foothills Pipe Lines group put forward some projections that there would be labour shortages in some of the key pipeline areas in eastern Canada and in western Canada where the Alaska pipeline and the Q and M pipeline and others would be laid down at the same time.
In view of the government's program to substitute gas for oil in eastern Canada, would the government give the assurance that these labour shortages will not delay the provision of natural gas for eastern Canada?


Mr. Speaker, we will certainly take account of labour shortages and act to try to anticipate them. 1 am not sure whether the hon. member is suggesting that the position of the Liberal party is to oppose the Q and M pipeline and to oppose substitutions of natural gas for oil.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Prime Minister. In its Friday statement on oil product supplies, the National Energy Board revealed that not only at the end of October were stocks in Canada of home heating fuel down by 6.3 per cent but, incredibly enough, exports from Canada for the same period of time were up by some 27 per cent. In a statement last Friday, the Prime Minister said the following:
We knew all along that shortages were possible.
He was referring to shortages of fuel oil this winter. In view of that statement, how could his government, during the six months it has been in office, possibly have permitted the exports to have taken place?


Mr. Speaker, in some of the cases where exports took place, they took place as a result, as 1 understand it, of the fulfilment of a condition having to do with the construction of certain refinery capacity in plants and in areas where there was not likely to be, and indeed will not be, any shortage this winter.
I think the hon. member will understand the reports to which we were referring from the National Energy Board are reports that give us, as up-to-date as possible, an assessment by the National Energy Board of the possibility of shortages in a particular region at a particular point in time. The latest information is that there is the possibility now of some interruptions, although they can be avoided if there is control upon exports and if there is conservation practiced. My understanding is that companies which had been in the practice of exporting previously have not been exporting since October or November.


Mr. Speaker, would the Prime Minister confirm that had his government been on its toes for the past
[Mr. Clark.)
six months in this regard, instead of being faced with a 6 per cent shortfall of home heating fuel in Canada, compared to last year, in fact we would have had a 6 per cent surplus?
If he will admit that, could he possibly explain, in the case of Irving Company, why that company was permitted to increase its exports very substantially during the precise period to which the Prime Minister referred in his comment on Friday, that the rest of us, particularly in Ontario and eastern Canada, could be anticipating shortages?


Yes, Mr. Speaker. First of all, I reject the invitation to make the statement that the hon member extended to me. With regard to the Irving plant, my understanding is that in November, Irving had very little in the way of exports; that in terms of Irving's service areas, no area has been short of heating oil or heavy oil; that last month Irving was denied a number of export licences because there was not a great surplus.


Mr. Speaker, there are no shortages yet, but it has been the Prime Minister and others who have warned about the shortages which will come this winter. Because I checked just before noon today, would the Prime Minister confirm that the National Energy Board now is still permitting exports to take place, and that it has before it applications for permits which will allow companies to export more home heating fuel later on this winter? In answering those questions, and I think the answer will be unequivocally in the affirmative-


Then why ask?


-could the Prime Minister explain to the House and to the people of Canada why he has not issued an instruction to the NEB that no more exports of home heating fuel should take place in Canada this year?


Mr. Speaker, I will check into those matters on which the Leader of the New Democratic Party has informed himself, but they are details on which I have not yet been informed. 1 will not only look into the particular questions the Leader of the New Democratic Party has asked; I will also look into the existence of any other conditions that, if the case he suggests is in fact true, would have led the National Energy Board to make that kind of authorization.


Mr. Speaker, my question, which is also directed to the right hon. Prime Minister, naturally deals with the energy issue. In his letter to us which was included as an appendix to Hansard of last November 6, the Prime Minister indicated the steps his government had taken to reassure the people of Quebec and the maritime provinces, that is to say, eastern Canada, concerning oil supply security.
December 10, 1979

He also indicated the steps his government had taken to maintain quotas and ensure supply for independent distributors. Could the right hon. Prime Minister advise us, taking into account everything that has been said over the past few days, where we stand now as far as supply for independent distributors is concerned?


Mr. Speaker, it would be necessary for me to check the exact situation of the independent distributors. I do not have the relevant information with me today. I should like, however, to mention to the hon. member that in the letters I wrote him 1 indicated the following:
Should we be faced with a disruption of oil supply sufficient to cause a national emergency, then I can assure you that the government is prepared to use the powers available to it under the Energy Supplies Emergency Act, 1979 to conserve supplies and to provide for their equitable distribution.


Mr. Speaker, I should like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister whether he was informed that independent distributors had their quotas reduced by almost half for December alone. I have an example for him. An independent distributor who had a quota of 98,000 gallons of heating oil had it reduced to 58,000 gallons in December, which means that his quota was reduced by 40,000 gallons. I should like to ask the right hon. Prime Minister whether he is prepared to inform the House today that his government will take every measure necessary to correct the situation forthwith.


First, Mr. Speaker, I am prepared to review and consider the situation referred to by the hon. member. Second, last week 1 indicated that the government intends to announce the names of the members of the supply board later this week.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the government House leader in his capacity as Minister of National Revenue. Not long before the House opened today, it was alleged to me that not only have the personal income tax forms for the 1979 tax year not yet been mailed out, but the printing of them has not yet been completed. This clashes with what the minister told the House on November 28, when he used words to the effect that they had been printed and the mailing was to be completed by early last week.
Could he tell the House, now, exactly what the state of affairs is and, in particular, if they were printed, the exact
Oral Questions
dates the printing was carried out, and if they were mailed, the exact dates on which they were mailed?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot tell the hon. member the exact dates, but when I made the statement in the House during the course of the debate on Bill C-20, the forms were in fact ready. I am advised that the mailing has begun in respect of those forms. I want to assure the hon. member-and he should know, as a former minister of national revenue-that the decision had to be made when it was made, and the action taken when it was taken.


Mr. Speaker, since this is important in terms of the vote we will be taking on the closure motion later this day, 1 would ask the President of the Privy Council and Minister of National Revenue if he could give us the exact information before that vote is taken. Exactly when was the printing of these forms completed; exactly how many forms were mailed out, and on what date, and exactly how many forms remain to be mailed out? The minister should know that there is no absolute legal requirement within the law insisting that the procedure had to be carried out, as he said when he spoke in the House.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member, as a former minister of national revenue, ought to know that the Department of National Revenue would act on behalf of the provinces with respect to property tax credit legislation, as it does with the child tax credit. These refunds would be delayed if the steps which I outlined in my speech on Bill C-20 were not taken. These steps were taken for administrative necessity, and the hon. member, being a former minister, ought not to be so silly as to deny that they are necessary.


Oh, oh!

[Translation\


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Finance. Last July he gave us to understand that the formula to establish a duty-free zone between Canada and the United States deserved serious consideration. Can the minister say whether he is still in favour of such a duty-free zone between Canada and the United States, and does his position reflect the position of the government?


Mr. Speaker, I have never said whether 1 favour a duty-free zone between Canada and the United States or any other kind of zone. What I suggested, and what I suggest again today, is that it is time
2174

December 10, 1979
Oral Questions
for Canadians to assess very carefully the options that they have for the future, including questions such as whether we should have freer trade between us and the United States, a North American common market, or a policy of more Canadian independence and more Canadian control over Canadian industry.
I have indicated that these are matters which should be seriously studied and on which the public should be informed so that they can make a conscious decision in the next few years as to our economic future. What 1 favour is a complete study, a weighing of the costs and benefits and a conscious decision by the Canadian people as to what direction we should take.


Mr. Speaker, I have a supplementary question. If the minister is so interested, can he tell us if he has formed a committee to consider the pros and cons of that matter and, if so, when can the House expect to receive its recommendations?
[English\


Mr. Speaker, what I am in favour of is not proceeding blindly down a path which leads to we know not where, as the last administration did. I am in favour of adopting a course consciously. No committee has yet been appointed, but I have asked the officials of my department to have a preliminary look at these questions and to prepare the data.
1 agree with the Senate committee which studied this issue, and the Economic Council of Canada, that these are matters which should be seriously looked at before we decide what is the most reasonable way to determine our future on these matters.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. Five weeks ago, in answer to questions in this House, the Prime Minister stated that the effect of the Buy American act on Canadian exports of urban transportation equipment was a very serious concern to the government, and that the matter was on the agenda for discussion with President Carter.
The Minister of State for International Trade stated in the House the next day that he had discussed the matter that very morning with the U.S. ambassador. Last Thursday morning the Gazette reported that Bombardier may have to move its 800-employee transit vehicle manufacturing operation to the
[Mr. Crosbie.)
United States because of that act. Last Thursday evening, the government announced increased gas exports to the United States.


Order. Would the hon. member put his question.


Yes, Mr. Speaker. As 1 said, last Thursday evening the government announced increased gas exports to the United States.


Order.


Was any consideration given by the government to tying one to the other, that is, to provide increased gas exports to the U.S. if they provide us with markets for our manufactured goods?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is quite right, that the possible move of Bombardier to the United States is a very real concern of this government. It is a matter on which I had discussion in Washington last Thursday. To specifically answer the question on whether consideration has been given to tying the two matters together, the answer is no.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is to the Minister of State for International Trade. After the minister's discussions with the United States, would he now give an indication as to our chances of obtaining amendments to that act?


Mr. Speaker, I think that there is a very good chance that we will be able to settle this matter on a satisfactory basis for the urban transportation industry. Our ambassador in Washington has had discussions with the new administration for the department of transportation in the United States. He advised me last week that there is a good opportunity for a satisfactory agreement. At this stage, I do not have any details which I can put before the House, but as soon as 1 have something I will do so.
*	* V


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the urbane, refined and cultured Minister of Finance.


He isn't here.


Did they change ministers?


backs, high interest rates or a combination of both. Is the minister aware of the tragic effect this policy is having on the Canadian book publishing industry and its employees-10 per cent of whom have been laid off already-and what contingency plans has the government to ensure employment stability within that industry and the survival of Canadian book publishing?


Mr. Speaker, I have greater faith in the Canadian book publishing industry than does the hon. gentleman. My seatmate has already announced a policy to help the Canadian book publishing industry. As far as the high interest rate condition is concerned, that of course has its effect on all businesses. We are hoping for improvement as soon as our policies get a grip on the economy. 1 can assure the hon. gentleman that his worries and concerns are shared by the government, but we have more optimism for the future of the industry than he does.


Mr. Speaker, I will extend the minister's sympathy to the industry and assure them that we know that the government has a grip on that industry. My supplementary question is to the Secretary of State. Have any officials of the Stratford Festival approached him with regard to funding discrimination, and is the minister considering reallocating the $10 million budget for the National Arts Centre in Ottawa to assist the smaller theatre companies across Canada, in general, and Stratford in particular?


Mr. Speaker, with respect to the Stratford Theatre Company-a very important theatre company to all of Canada-the Minister of State for Federal-Provincial Relations has raised this matter with me many times. I have had meetings with representatives of the Professional Association of Canadian Theatres in an attempt to develop some long-term and positive policies with respect to professional theatres across Canada. I think we are making good progress in that regard.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State. It stems from recent discussions which I have had with Bell Canada and the CRTC that there is an impending likelihood that a study by Bell Canada will take place to determine a new means of billing Canadian consumers. My concern is that this-


Would the hon. member put his question.
Oral Questions


My question is, would the minister use the authority of his office to ensure that this new study is not a means by Bell Canada to increase consumer rates?


Mr. Speaker, the proposed experiment by Bell Canada of usage-sensitive pricing is a controversial topic and one with considerable implications in terms of possible increased charges to individual subscribers. Even though there has been no clear decision as yet on whether or not the proposal and the experiment put forward by Bell two months ago is acceptable, I will inquire of CRTC to make sure that there is no momentum given to this issue which would, in effect, contribute to a decision that would not be in the public interest.


Mr. Speaker, in the absence of the Minister of Employment and Immigration, I will put my question to the acting minister.
It relates to the Vietnamese refugee program. Last week, when the Minister of Employment and Immigration appeared before the committee and announced the end of the Vietnamese refugee aid program, he said that he had consulted with his provincial counterparts, including Mr. Couture, the Quebec minister of immigration, and that they had given him their support. Mr. Couture denies that these consultations ever took place and he says that he is opposed to the withdrawal of the program. My question to the minister is this: Is Mr. Couture lying on this subject? Would the minister be willing to take his advice and restore the program the way it was?


Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for that very important question. As 1 understand it, Mr. Couture was concerned about the fact that we not receive some 10,000 refugees which was the understanding of all the parties involved. In terms of who is telling the truth, 1 must state that I stand by the Minister of Employment and Immigration, who indicated that he had consulted with the provinces and they were in agreement with his plan, given the fact that the total number involved is 50,000.
As the hon. member knows, there was a recent release, under the date of December 6, which has now placed more emphasis on the private sector in order that moneys can be freed to assist those who are suffering in Cambodia which, in all, is still part of the refugee question. In other words, we had

December 10, 1979
Oral Questions
the 50,000 limit, but we are involved with the Kampucheans and also with other refugees.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. When he appeared before the committee, the minister also said that he had consulted with and been given support by the private sector. We know now that they are almost unanimously opposed to the proposed changes in the program. Therefore, what we have here are two instances of ineffective consultations and one instance of denied consultations, namely, by Mr. Couture. Will the minister undertake new consultations, or will he restore this excellent program to what it was before?


Mr. Speaker, 1 think it has already been indicated by the minister that there is, indeed, a great need in Cambodia. We have not given up the refugee program one bit, but there are two prongs to it: one happens to be the boat people, and the other happens to be those in Cambodia who are suffering from lack of food, who are in need of temporary shelter and who are in need of medical aid. Therefore, this is a good cause.
In terms of reversing ourselves, I have no knowledge at this time whether the minister will or will not, but my understanding is that he intends to proceed in accordance with the press release, which he has now on his desk, dated December 6.


Mr. Speaker,
1 have a question for the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs. There are now confirmed reports that the Argus Corporation is proposing a major takeover bid of the FP newspaper chain. Under these circumstances, we would have one of the largest economic conglomerates in the country taking control of one of the major newspaper chains.
1 should like to ask the minister if the government has expressed any concern over this action in relation to how it would affect the public interest of this country. In particular, has the minister instructed the director of combines investigations to undertake an inquiry as to whether this proposed takeover would be in the public interest, and whether the government has any involvement in the case?


Mr. Speaker, the government has expressed concern. The director of investigations will certainly look at this matter.


A supplementary question, Mr. Speaker. Considering the imminence of the takeover bid, does the minister have any timetable in mind as to when the director of combines investigations will report? Does the minister also intend to make a public statement about the government's concern regarding this proposed takeover, and does he intend to take any immediate action to declare a moratorium on the takeover until the director has had an opportunity to fully assess and study the implications?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member knows, the director of investigations is an independent office. I imagine the director will require some time before he will be in a position to indicate whether a formal investigation is required.


In view of the absence of the Minister of Transport, the minister of state for maritime transport and the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Transport, I shall put my question to the right hon. Prime Minister. I should like to know whether the government has been advised of the very extensive damage caused to the Pointe-au-Pic wharf, which is one of the most important economic factors in that area, and whether the government would be willing to consider allocating special funds to undertake the urgent repairs to that marine structure with a view to saving this economic tool which is of such importance to the riding of Charlevoix?


Mr. Speaker, I should like to discuss the matter with the minister.


In view of the absence of the same people, Mr. Speaker, my question will be directed to the right hon. Prime Minister. Since he is an expert on easy solutions, and since the Gagnon group has now withdrawn its offer to buy Nordair, and now that Quebecair is the only group left, does the Prime Minister intend to announce to the Canadian people before the holiday season- before Christmas-that the Quebecair group's offer to purchase Nordair will be looked upon favourably?


Mr. Speaker, the sale of Nordair is a matter which is now under consideration
December 10, 1979

by the government. The Minister of Justice discussed the matter with some of the interested parties in the Nordair charter before the announcement alluded to by the hon. member. I have not yet had a chance to discuss that conversation with the Minister of Justice. I should like to do so with both him and the Minister of Transport.


Mr. Speaker, on a supplementary, now that there is only one group from Quebec, and that the main reason the Minister of Justice is involved in the matter is that, as minister representing Quebec concerning his counterpart, he takes care of Quebec problems, can the Prime Minister tell the House whether, now that a serious group has offered to purchase Nordair, he and the Minister of Transport-and not only the Minister of Justice who sits in the other place-will reach a decision so that the matter can be settled? They have been in government for six months now, so a decision could now be expected and now that the situation is easy to solve, and since the Prime Minister likes easy solutions, will he soon be in a position to make a statement to the House?


Mr. Speaker, the question is now under consideration by the government. As the hon. member has just recognized, only three or four days have elapsed since the situation changed with regard to Quebeckers interested in Nordair. With the change in circumstances, we shall now probably look into the matter in depth this week.


Mr. Speaker, may 1 put a question to the President of the Privy Council? In view of the fact that a notice of motion has already been introduced by the Solicitor General which would give the Standing Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs the authority to completely review and amend the whole aspect of gun control legislation, I should like to ask whether the President of the Privy Council would tell us on what date the committee will be given the necessary authority to delve into this legislation?


Mr. Speaker, it is unlikely, given the calendar of the House between now and the expected adjournment date for Christmas, that we could deal with the matter before then. It would be my intention to discuss the matter with the House leaders in terms of time. It is our intention to proceed with the reference as quickly as we can after we come back in the New Year.
Oral Questions ENERGY


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the right hon. Prime Minister. It is based on the fact that some of the multionational oil companies, Imperial Oil and Shell in particular, have given notice to their agents in Canada to terminate the two cents per gallon discount on home heating fuel that has been available to senior citizens.
In view of the fact that this action must be offensive to the Prime Minister, coming as it does just after the government has talked to Imperial Oil about an increase in the price of gasoline, will the Prime Minister, either himself or through his ministers, make strong representations to the oil companies in this country to continue to make available to senior citizens a discount on heating fuel?


Mr. Speaker, I am surprised at the information the hon. member gives the House: it is the first I have heard of it. 1 am concerned about it, and I will be in touch with the companies that have been cited.
As the hon. member knows, it is the intention of the government to ensure as much as we can that actions which the government takes with regard to increases in fuel costs will not fall disproportionately upon the elderly of the country, but that, indeed, they will be helped by government programs. I would think as a matter of general principle that should be followed by the private sector as well.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Secretary of State and deals with the Open House Canada program, an excellent program established by the former government which enables a great many young Canadians to visit their country and meet other young people of different backgrounds. Can the minister tell us whether it is true that his department has decided that CP Air instead of Air Canada shall provide transportation for these young people? If so, why; on what criteria has the minister based his decision, and does this decision not run counter to the government's policy of favouring Air Canada when public funds are involved?


Mr. Speaker, I am under the impression that the hon. member is misinformed.

December 10, 1979

Oral Questions FINANCE


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Finance, in view of the government's determination to ram Bill C-20 through Parliament, thereby depriving members of a full opportunity to put questions to the minister and to come forward with reasonable amendments, can the minister inform this House how he intends to recover the mammoth tax expenditure under the bill? Will it be by the introduction of capital gains tax on the sale of principal residences of Canadians, or will it be by scratching the registered home ownership savings plan? How will the Canadian people pay for the election goodies?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member was certainly scratching when he made those suggestions. We are hopeful that hon. gentlemen opposite will stop their obstruction of this tax credit legislation in the next few days so that it can go through before Christmas. The way it will be paid for is this: the taxpayers of Canada who are now home owners, who pay federal taxes, who have mortgages or who pay or do not pay municipal taxes, will retain in their pockets next year $575 million that they would otherwise have had to pay the government in taxes. However, if hon. gentlemen opposite had their way, the taxpayers of Canada would not be in a position to do that and would pay $575 million more next year, $1,200 million the year following, up to $2,900 million. 1 hope they will see reason and allow the taxpayers to keep that.


Hear, hear!
* *
*


ACHIEVING OF LEVEL ESSENTIAL TO ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN 1980s
Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of State for Science and Technology. At committee, the National Defence officials indicated that the cost of the new fighter aircraft in 1982 dollars would be approximately $3.5 billion. What guarantees can the minister give Canadians that such a massive expenditure of taxpayers' funds will help to achieve the level of research and development that his government has stated is so essential to the economic development of Canada in the eighties?


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the hon. member that officials of my department are on the review panel for the new fighter aircraft. We are ascertaining to as great an extent as possible that research and development offsets and technological transfers will be maximized as much as possible.
Let me repeat, that my officials are monitoring this matter very, very closely. I appreciate the hon. member's interest. 1

can assure him that everything possible is being done with either of these aircraft-as he knows, the choice has not yet been made between the aircraft-to ensure that the R and D offsets are as great as possible.


Mr. Speaker, all available information indicates that there will not be one ounce of Canadian technology in these fighter aircraft. Can the minister indicate how much indigenous, high-Canadian technology will be in the aircraft and how much will be simply paint-by-numbers or work-to-drawings type of assembly?


I am sure that when the last government narrowed the choice down to these two, they did not agree with what the hon. member has just said. One is never satisfied: I am the first to admit, with the hon. member, that we are never satisfied with the totality or the quality of the R and D offsets. But we are making sure, by monitoring this matter as closely as possible, that they are going to be maximized as much as possible in terms of R and D done in Canada from whoever gets this contract.
* *
*


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Postmaster General. The President of the Treasury Board has issued a directive for a 2 per cent reduction of staff in each department. In the Post Office, these cuts would mean a requirement of about 3,600 person-years in the remaining four or five months of this year.
Since the Postmaster General told us last week in committee that, and I quote, he cannot tolerate a 2 per cent cut in person-years in the Post Office, because if he did he could not even maintain the limited service that he is trying to maintain under very difficult conditions-that was his public answer to the Treasury Board-can the Postmaster General tell us if he has received a favourable answer to his ultimatum to the Treasury Board making the Post Office an exception to this arbitrary directive?


Mr. Speaker, the statement that I made was to a committee of this House. That statement and that information stands. It is the best assessment that we in the Post Office can give it. It has been transmitted to my colleague, the President of the Treasury Board. There will no doubt be discussions. I remain of the opinion, and it is soundly based, that a 2 per cent across the board cut in person-years is not possible at this time.
December 10, 1979

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, we did not, of course, get a clear and specific answer from the President of the Treasury Board. In view of the promise made by this government to eliminate 60,000 civil service jobs, could the Postmaster General tell us what has been his department's contribution up to now to this generous promise as a result of which postal services are eliminated or reduced just about everywhere in Canada?
[English)


No, Mr. Speaker, 1 cannot give an exact answer except to say this: under my direction there has been strict adherence to the principle which was enunciated earlier by this party, and then by this government, that there would be no reduction in person-years except by attrition. 1 have pointed out, as the hon. member well knows, publicly to a committee of this House that the difficulty in the Post Office is that we are having a serious problem in maintaining service and that it is not a department of government that can withstand severe cuts in personnel.


Mr. Speaker, 1 have a supplementary question for the Postmaster General. We have now heard this minister indicate twice that he has taken positions that are diametrically opposed to the decisions or the policies of this government, first in terms of opening the mail and now in terms of the 2 per cent cutback. In view of the fact the minister has made public declarations on two of the major issues that affect his department, should he not be successful in persuading the members of the cabinet of the position that he has made public is he ready to submit his resignation?


Order, please. The question is, of course, hypothetical by its very nature.


My question is for the Minister of Agriculture. It concerns a very serious problem in the Atlantic provinces, namely, the fact that many potato growers in the Atlantic provinces have seen all or part of their crop rot because they cannot find markets for it. This is the third year in a row that potatoes have been sold at less than the cost of production.
Can the minister guarantee the producers in that part of Canada that there will be compensation so that they will at least get back the cost of production? Can he assure the House
Oral Questions
there will be a pay-out under the stabilization plan to the potato farmers in eastern Canada?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member touches on a very serious problem. I have answered questions on this very subject over the last number of days. As of today, no, 1 cannot stand here and say there will be a stabilization payment for the 1978 crop year; nor can 1, in all honesty, say there will be participation on behalf of the federal government with reference to the diversion program that the maritime producers want.
I fully appreciate the difficulty in which the potato producers of Canada find themselves. This afternoon I am meeting with two of my provincial counterparts to discuss this whole situation.


In the light of the fact that Irving Oil, of all companies, has bought out a potato processor in Prince Edward Island, and that Europeans are now purchasing potato farms in the Atlantic provinces, will the minister take the initiative and begin discussions with the provincial governments and the producers with a view to forming a potato marketing board or commission along similar lines to the Canadian Wheat Board, so as to ensure producers some protection?


With reference to the hon. member's first question, it seems to me he is talking more about land use or land tenure control, and that, as I am sure he will appreciate, is an area which lies directly within the control of the provincial governments. With reference to his second question, that is the number one item we intend to discuss this afternoon. I am pretty certain that my officials have been successful in setting up meetings with all my provincial counterparts in eastern Canada for dates prior to the Christmas recess.

[ Translation]


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Solicitor General. In a recent newsletter, the Public Service Alliance allowed its members to take part in non-political and non-partisan activities in the Quebec referendum campaign, thus endorsing the position taken by the Public Service Commission. Now, Mr. Speaker, unless one is very naive, it is obvious that political and partisan activities will take place during the Quebec referendum campaign. I therefore ask, what will be the grievance procedure against civil servants who might break the law to the effect that only a candidate in an election can file a complaint with the Public Service Commission? Since there will be no election or candi-

December 10, 1979
Privilege-Mr. Ethier
date as such, what will be the procedure to file a complaint against those obstinate civil servants?


Mr. Speaker, I will get the cabinet minister directly concerned to reply in writing to the hon. member.


In that case, does the Solicitor General intend to table the legal opinion or opinions that the Department of Justice is reported to have sent to the Public Service Commission on the interpretation of section 32, because I understand that the legal opinions, one sent in July, the other in October, were contradictory? Can the Solicitor General table these documents or clarify this matter immediately?


Mr. Speaker, 1 know nothing of any single legal opinion on that subject, much less about two of them. But, as the hon. member knows, it has not been the practice of past administrations to make public legal opinions coming from the Department of Justice. However, I will check into the matter and make sure the hon. member receives a written reply.


Order, please. There remain outstanding two questions of privilege, one raised by the hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell (Mr. Ethier) and the other by the hon. member for Yorkton-Melville (Mr. Nystrom). Brief interventions were made by both ministers involved and neither minister seeks the floor again. One intervention was by the Minister of Agriculture (Mr. Wise) with respect to the matter raised by the hon. member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell and the other by the Minister of Transport (Mr. Mazan-kowski) in regard to the question of privilege raised by the hon. member for Yorkton-Melville.
Both questions of privilege make reference to a practice which was admitted to by the Minister of Transport and, to a lesser extent-or to a less formalized extent-by the Minister of Agriculture, in the sense that in the months since the election and the formation of the new government committees which were in fact entirely committees of the government caucus were encouraged to carry out investigation work in

their particular fields and, in addition to being encouraged, were in fact financially supported through government funding. In some cases this entailed 