The House resumed from Thursday, April 21, consideration of the motion of Mr. Lalonde that this House approves in general the budgetary policy of the Government; and the amendment of Miss Carney (p. 24689).
[DOT]	(1110)
Mr. Speaker, you will remember that last autumn before unemployment reached the present unacceptable level of two million Canadians, the Prime Minister (Mr. Trudeau) treated us to a series of television homilies in which, above all else, he appealed to the Canadian people for trust. I have gone back over newspaper reports with such headlines as "Trudeau urges Canadians to show trust", "Lower prices through trust, Trudeau asks". That is from The Globe and Mail of October 21, 1982.
In his speech on October 20, 1982 he said:
1 dwell on the need for trust because what we have achieved so far is young and fragile. We must strengthen our trust in each other because trust is the only bond that will allow us to unite our efforts and combine our strengths to meet the challenge we face.
That is what the Prime Minister said six months ago-that we were to trust him and his colleagues to exercise the kind of leadership that would be necessary to overcome our economic ills; we were to work together; we were to have faith in him and to trust him. Here we are six months later, six tortuous months later, hundreds of thousands more Canadians are without jobs, the deficit has soared to astronomical levels and the Government brings down a supposed, cure-all budget. I will deal with some of the budget measures in a few minutes.
First of all, I want to draw attention to the Prime Minister's latest musings or, I could say diatribe, about the word "trust". What he has had to say is far from philosophical. In his press conference on April 22, just last Friday, again he dealt with trust between Canadians. Turning his back on his appeal of six months ago for trust among Canadians, he lectured, he berated them, because he does not think they can be trusted to spend their money as they should.
Look at the headlines that followed that oration by the Prime Minister. "Can't trust the public with tax cuts, the
Prime Minister said", as reported in the Montreal Gazette for April 23. "Canadian buyers can't be trusted to spend at home, Trudeau says" is highlighted in the Kingston Whig Standard of April 23. The Prime Minister says that the budget did not provide for sales tax breaks to consumers because they would not spend money at home; they could not be trusted to spend money unless on imports or perhaps on travelling abroad. He went on to say that he did not give a tax break to manufacturers because they could not be trusted to pass on the extra revenues to consumers. He did not want to see the Provinces getting any additional moneys because they could not be trusted to do anything but pocket the funds.
There we have the Prime Minister's current view of trust between Canadians and their Government. It is quite a different view from that which he expressed six months ago.
What does he say now? Canadians cannot be trusted to act in the best interests of the country. They would be liable to spend any additional money travelling abroad. This, sir, from the Prime Minister who, when he was travelling through Southeast Asia earlier this year, commented that he was not particularly concerned about the plight of Canadians because they would probably all be sunning themselves in southern climes or would be out on the ski hills having themselves a good time.
The Prime Minister's understanding of ordinary Canadians, indeed, sir, "passeth all understanding". He thinks that Canadians cannot be trusted, that given the chance they will goof off somewhere. The real problem with the Prime Minister is that he insists on applying his own personal standards to other Canadians. Nothing could more clearly underline how out of touch with reality he really is. How can he believe that two million unemployed Canadians would be out cavorting on the ski hills? How can he imagine that home owners, farmers and small-business people, who have gone through the agonies of loss of their homes, their businesses and their families' farms, would now be lolling on some beach somewhere in the knowledge that their financial problems are all a thing of the past?
The Prime Minister is out of touch and Hon. Members of the Government's benches are out of touch, and I say that to the Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre (Mr. Evans) if he believes what the Prime Minister said in his press conference of last Friday about having no trust in Canadians, about Canadians not being trusted to do the right thing by their

April 25, 1983
The Budget-Miss MacDonald
country. He had better find out what is actually happening with ordinary Canadians across this country. He had better find out that Canadians can be trusted. That is what 1 say to the Hon. Member for Ottawa Centre.


Talk about the budget.


I will certainly talk about measures in the budget because not only is the Prime Minister out of touch with reality, but so in many ways is his Minister of Finance (Mr. Lalonde). What they do not comprehend is that the people of Canada are no longer willing to buy their prescriptions. Even less are they willing to be made the butt of jokes and ridicule by the Prime Minister and his Minister of Finance. People have had too much suffering, too much uncertainty, too much frustration and of being stretched to the limits of their human and physical endurance by this Government now to be made the butt of sick jokes by the Prime Minister.
The treatment accorded the critical unemployment problem in Canada today by the budget of the Minister of Finance was also little more than a sick joke, although he did not use the same terminology as the Prime Minister. The Minister of Finance couched his approach to the issue in seemingly appropriate words. He said: "My dominant concern in preparing this budget has been to help the more than 1.5 million Canadians who want to work but cannot find jobs". That is his dominant concern. Did he really mean it or did he only say it?
I find it difficult, Mr. Speaker, if not impossible, to accept the words of the Minister of Finance as sincere when his budget provides for 182,000 more Canadians out of work this year than last, when it estimates that there will be more unemployed in 1985 than in 1982, and that there will still be a million-plus unemployed by 1987 and beyond. Either his "dominant" concern is really for the unemployed or it is not. His words say one thing but his budget says something entirely different.
This approach by the Minister of Finance, this "say one thing, mean another" phenomenon, touches many aspects of the budget. Taxpayers are promised a break but in the next few years they are going to have to pay additional taxes of $3,570 billion. The housing industry, through a number of measures, has been promised a building boom, all these measures which are going to bring about a building boom. I ask the Minister responsible for housing why, at the same time that this was done, did the Government propose to jack up the federal tax on construction materials? What help is that to the construction industry?


What date does that tax begin?


The Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Finance (Mr. Fisher) asks what date is the increase in building tax to begin. It begins in 1984, but what confidence does it instil in the construction industry when the Government threatens to impose higher taxes on it? Businessmen and investors are promised inflation indexing of capital gains, but they will be taxed year by year on those gains whether or not they have materialized. Small business is
promised help with its losses when the greatest concern they now have is with expansion and trying to rebuild profits.
Parents are promised an increased Child Tax Credit indexed to inflation, but the income threshold will be frozen, as will the $710 dependant child tax deduction. The progress of time and inflation will effectively and not too distantly eliminate both these benefits.
What, then, does the Minister really mean by the budget, so complex that it took almost two months of delay before he could bring it in and twice the normal length to explain? Yet as we have all seen, the deficit and spending program was adjusted upward by $200 million within a matter of a mere 24 hours.
We are told that the private sector is to be the cutting edge of both recovery and new employment. The Minister's predecessor deliberately threw two million people out of work in this country-deliberately threw them out of work-by the measures he introduced which crippled the private sector. Now this Minister of Finance hopes that with the timely application of a few band-aids, the private sector will not only walk again but carry everything else along with it.
Sir, if anyone or anything in our economy can work a miracle with such slender resources, I have no doubt it will be the private sector, those manufacturers and industries, large and small, that are the real producers of our national wealth. But at the same time as the Minister is giving the private sector this half-hearted boost, he continues to tell us there will be little or no change until the world economy changes. This, of course, is part of the ongoing Liberal litany that all our problems are the fault of someone else. Our difficulties are created elsewhere and so, too, will be our solutions. The Minister sits before the media, Mr. Speaker, and explains that British Columbia coal will not get moving again until Japanese steel picks up. That will not be until people in the United States start buying again.
The argument of interlocking economies would be more valid were all our trading partners to have an equally dismal economic record as Canada has. Then the Government might have something to base that claim on. It would be more compelling if Japan also had a 12.5 per cent rate of unemployment, which it does not; or West Germany with double-digit inflation these past several years, which it has not; or the U.S., even with its huge deficit spending, which is nowhere near equivalent to our own $31.3 billion deficit.
The truth is that we are not the helpless dependants of international welfare that the Minister of Finance would make us out to be. We do not need to wait for others, sir, to pull ourselves out of the economic mess that this Government has put us in. There is much we ourselves can do to raise this country out of the financial quagmire. But there is precious little that this budget will allow us to do along those lines.
Yes, I will agree that the budget has given the business communities some of the incentives and tools it needs to modernize, to invest in plant and machinery, to expand its
April 25, 1983

research and development facilities, to get back on the road to productivity and world competitiveness. And, like the business community itself, we can applaud these long overdue measures in this direction. We have been urging them, sir, for many months now. But even at that, there is only so much a leaner and hungrier private sector can achieve until people start buying.
That, sir, has to be the basis of our economic recovery. Until businesses and manufacturers start increasing their inventory, until consumers start purchasing the end product, until that comes about there will be no significant reduction in unemployment in this country. Yet what encouragement is there for consumers in this budget to start that whole process moving? There is precious little, according to the Consumers Association of Canada. It gave this Budget a C minus, and I would say it was being generous in doing that.
The biggest purchase which most consumers will make during their lifetime is their own home. As I mentioned earlier, there are measures promising a boom in housing purchase and building. There is the topping up proposal for the RHOSPs, the Home Ownership Stimulation Plan, the Home Renovation Plan and the Residential Rehabilitation Assistance Plan. Obviously, those are supportive measures and they are to be applauded. I have said that before and I now say that to the Minister responsible for housing. However, I want to give him a piece of advice coming from home owners; these measures do not amount to a critical factor in trying to trigger a boom in home building or home buying. What the potential home purchaser and owner wants more than anything else is confidence, confidence that the roller coaster of interest rates will not return two, three or four years down the road.
If inflation is truly beaten as Hon. Members opposite claim, if we are on the road to recovery as the Minister believes, then a program guaranteeing mortgage deductibility on payments over a given rate of interest would have cost the Government nothing, if that is what they truly believe. However, it would do more toward encouraging home buying and, therefore, home building than any of the measures which the Minister of Finance has placed in his budget. I see that the Minister responsible for housing is shaking his head. Obviously, he is not speaking to the same prospective home buyers as I am. It is the question of interest rates which is uppermost in their minds. It is the major concern of those who have lost homes and those who are still paying high interest rates.
Of course, the budget does provide for some direct initiative for consumer spending in the withdrawal provisions for RHOSPs. However, perhaps the Minister responsible for housing can explain why the Minister of Finance did not stipulate in that measure that the provision would apply to goods, furniture and appliances made in Canada. Why did he not add that provision? Why not boost our own manufacturers? Why not put them before others? That would have immediately stimulated and triggered jobs here in Canada. Surely that is what the Minister of Finance said was his dominant concern in the budget. When he had the opportunity to do something about it, why did he not direct that one
The Budget-Mr. Roberts
measure to the whole question of job creation for Canadians in Canada?
Thomas Maxwell, the chief economist of the Conference Board of Canada, points out that firms will only begin to invest when they can see that consumers are beginning to spend. Without that spending by consumers, he concludes, there will simply be no durable recovery.
I can see that Your Honour is awaiting the conclusion of my remarks, but I would like to say that without that commitment by consumers, that encouragement of consumers to spend, there will be no real improvement in the tremendous unemployment situation that we face in the country today. The Government simply did not come to grips with that in the budget.


Are there Hon. Members rising to ask questions of the Hon. Member who has just spoken? If not, the Chair will recognize the Minister of the Environment (Mr. Roberts).


Madam Speaker, a few minutes ago my colleague, the Minister of State for Economic Development (Mr. Johnston), announced some of the details and fundamentals of the Special Recovery Projects Program which the Canadian Government is mounting as an important part of its response to the economic challenge to the country. That response is one of the major elements in the budget that was presented by my colleague, the Minister of Finance, which is a recovery budget. It is a budget which is designed to bring, and will bring, the country on track, to respond to our economic problems and particularly to create jobs in our economy. It is a recovery budget designed to create jobs both in the short term and in the longer term.
The rationale for that budget has been clearly expressed by a variety of Members in the House. It is a budget based on the belief that the strong motor force for creating jobs must be through the private sector's efforts. It is a budget designed to continue the efforts we have made in the past to create a stronger and more positive context for the private sector's activities.
There also is another important wing of our efforts, and that is through the federal Government's own activities to create jobs in the Canadian economy. We are not a Government imbued with a Reaganomic spirit which believes that only the private sector can create jobs and that the only responsibility of Government is to create an atmosphere in which the private sector can do so. We also believe as a Government that there are appropriate times for it to step in and directly assist in the creation of jobs within the Canadian economy.
The budget made it clear that it is important that the Government takes such steps now. While we may look forward to the impact of the very favourable changes which the Minister of Finance (Mr. Lalonde) has introduced to encourage the private sector and the investment intentions of the private

April 25, 1983
The Budget-Mr. Roberts
sector, it is clear that major private sector investment will only be more active as we move toward the end of 1983 and well into 1984. There is a need to create jobs and strengthen productive capacity now, in preparation for the renewed private sector efforts which we believe will take place as a result of the positive suggestions in the budget.
That is the rationale underlying the Special Recovery Projects Program we have brought forward. It is to find and move forward projects which the federal Government can undertake to create jobs in the very short term which leave lasting benefits of strengthening the productive infrastructure and capacity of our country.
When the Minister of Finance presented the budget last week, he outlined two central recovery goals. The first goal is to ensure that the recent stirrings of growth start to pervade the whole economy of Canada as quickly as possible; the second is to make sure that the recovery is strong and durable in order to create good, permanent, satisfying and well-paying jobs for Canadians.
The Special Recovery Projects Program is the cornerstone of the foundation which the federal Government is laying to meet these two goals. This Special Recovery Projects Program is the largest Special Capital Investment Program ever undertaken by the Government of Canada. It will create jobs now, both in the communities where facilities will be built and in the centres where orders will be placed for goods and services. It will assist in several currently weak sectors, including construction, shipbuilding, fisheries and forest products. I hope I will have time to expand considerably on the forest sector which, of course, given my responsibility to the Canadian forest service, is one area of particular interest to me and I believe to many Members in the House.
The Special Capital Investment Program will put key infrastructures into place to improve the productivity of Canadian industry and meet the competitive challenges that will arise during world wide recovery.
At the outset I should say something about the economic environment in which this federal recovery investment is taking place. Total capital spending in all sectors of the Canadian economy, public and private, is expected to decline at the present time by more than 3 per cent in 1983. Even more significant is the expected decline of 8.2 per cent in investment in the private sector. That decline follows a decline of over 5 per cent in capital investment last year.
Through accelerating planned federal spending we will make up some of this investment short-fall and contribute substantially to national economic recovery. By bringing forward our investment projects we will improve the pace of recovery within the country.
Of the $2.4 billion directed to the special projects over the next four years, $1.7 billion will constitute a new injection of funds. In 1983-84 we are adding $600 million to our already forecast expenditures for construction and for the purchase of goods and services, which is an increase of approximately 35 per cent. In 1984-85 we will add $700 million to the forecast
expenditures for an augmentation of about 33 per cent. In 1985-86 the additional expenditures will amount to approximately $400 million, which is an increase of about 22 per cent over our forecast of expenditures.
This program will put in place the financing of over 100 capital projects. I should stress how these projects have been selected. They are not make-work projects in the sense of being directed only to the creation of jobs. We believe that they will create jobs quickly in the Canadian economy, but, they are jobs which are also designed to enhance the productive capacity of the country. These are projects which departments have considered necessary over the coming decade for the development of the infrastructure. What we are simply doing is bringing them forward to make sure that they are paced properly within the perspective of economic recovery.
During the early stages of budget planning the Government asked departments to review their capital spending plans for future years and identify those projects which were useful, constructive and could be brought forward for early implementation. These projects were tested against a variety of key selection criteria. We were looking for initiatives that could be started within six months. The projects were screened according to the contribution they could make to investment and growth in key sectors and regions.
One of our important efforts in relation to these projects is to try to cut through some of the bureaucratic red tape that so often seems to surround Government decision-making. We have established a special Cabinet committee to accelerate the process of decision-making. Tendering and contracting times are being shortened and we will be working closely with key groups in the private sector to get their support for fasttracking projects, not only at the selection and approval stages but throughout implementation.
The Special Recovery Projects Board, comprising a variety of senior civil servants, has been established to work with all the departments that are involved in this program in order to monitor its progress and expedite the process wherever possible.
In effect, 100 capital projects are being brought forward. The $1.5 billion of expenditures which would have taken place later in the decade is being brought forward to create jobs now in a way which will enhance the productive capacity of our country and speed its recovery. Special efforts are being made to provide quick administrative implementation measures to ensure this happens quickly. Two of these 100 major projects were announced today. My colleague the Minister of Supply and Services (Mr. Blais) announced the addition of $630 million in expenditure over the next four years to upgrade the quality of the Canadian Coast Guard, which is obviously a key need in our society, one which will have considerable technological and spin-off benefits.
I announced today that the federal Government is prepared to spend up to $147 million over the next four years under the capital program to strengthen in conjunction with the Provinces the capacity of Canada to fight forest fires across the
April 25, 1983

country through the purchase of up to 20 CL-215 fire bombers from Canadair.


Bail that company out one way or the other.


I am sorry that the Hon. Member opposite does not seem to understand the importance of this step and the importance of the forest industry in Canada. I would like to stress that this important step takes place within the context of the general forest strategy which the Government brought forward and implemented. It is an example of how the Special Recovery Capital Projects Program can help strengthen some of these industries in Canada which are the foundation industries of this country. We can help strengthen the resource sector, help it through some of its current difficulties and respond to the long-term opportunities it provides to our country.
Approximately 18 months ago the federal Government brought forward its forest sector strategy paper. It outlined the key areas where there is a need for action on the part of the provincial Governments, the private sector and the federal Government. We isolated those areas in the forest industry structure where there is a special need for Government assistance, a need to upgrade human resources in the forest sector and a need to strengthen the marketing systems for it.
There is an essential need to focus on the problem of reforestation and provide programs which will lead Canadian industry to transform itself from an industry that is simply exploiting a given resource to one which treats the forest as it properly should be treated, as a renewable resource. We need policies to put into place the reforestation which the forest industry so badly needs. The fourth key area of action which we saw that had to be met was the need to fight disease and fires throughout Canada.
The federal Government has acted in each of those specific, crucial areas of the industry. On the human resources side it brought forward an initiative of over $15 million for the next three years to assist through block grants to forest faculties across the country, and through a human resources program that is awarding 20 Canadian forestry scholarships this year and up to 50 by 1985-86. We brought forward a program under the federal internship program to employ 300 forestry students over the summer. We increased contract research to universities. Overall, there is a $15 million program to strengthen the human resources side and meet the human resources needs of the industry.
We have entered into arrangements with the provincial Governments in relation to reforestation. The federal Government has committed $130 million in expenditure by the year 1985-86. We are now in the process of signing with each of the provincial Governments a reforestation accord. One has been signed with the Province of Nova Scotia, we are ready to sign one with the Province of Prince Edward Island and I expect that in the next two years we will sign agreements with each of the provincial Governments, agreements which attach criteria
The Budget-Mr. Roberts
designed to ensure that, through federal-provincial co-operation, we tackle the needs of reforestation in this country. We have signed research agreements with over half of the Provinces and expect to sign such an agreement with each of the ten Provinces by the end of this year. In this fiscal year we expanded our commitment to research by over $5 million.
One of the important areas where action still needs to be taken is in relation to the control of disease and in relation to the control of fire. The Special Recovery Capital Projects Program and the purchase of fire bombers which I have announced today will be supplemented by further announcements in the next few weeks. We will be using the over-all Special Recovery Projects Program to support the forest strategy. It will be used to bring federal forest research facilities up to the standards needed to carry out the federal share of responsibility in the forestry sector. We are going to ensure that the facilities are adequate to develop the skills required in the modern forest industry. It will be used to protect our Canadian forestry resource. We have acted in the past through our support for the establishment of the Canadian Inter-Agency Fire Centre in Winnipeg, a very much needed step to improve co-operation and co-ordination between the Provinces and the federal Government.
I want to give Members some idea of the importance of combatting fire in Canada each year and the reason why this purchase of water bombers is such an essential step for us to take at this time. The forest area lost to fire in Canada each year regularly exceeds the area harvested. Over the last five years there have been some extreme fire seasons. During that period, forest fires have burned on the average of three and a half times more forest land than was harvested. Clearly, losses of that magnitude cannot be borne.
To put it every more graphically, in a record fire season like 1980 forest fires burned an area in Canada equivalent to a six-kilometre-wide strip from coast to coast, a six-kilometre strip right across the country. That is the size of forest area that we lost in one year to fire alone. It is a bit difficult to determine the exact economic impact of that. Obviously it is substantial. Estimates place the loss of such dimensions as something in the order of $350 million. Average annual fire losses are in the order of $53 million per year.
Action is required, action which involves both the federal and provincial Government, to improve our capacity both to suppress and to combat fires. That is why I announced today that we are prepared to spend $147 million over the next four years to purchase up to 20 CL-215 water bombers from Canadair in Montreal to combat the menace of forest fires.
Four of these aircraft will be for use in the Yukon and Northwest Territories and 16 will be available for a national fleet of water bombers to be operated by the Provinces. These aircraft are to be obtained under the terms of a federal-provincial co-operative supply agreement which the Government is considering as a request from the Canadian Council of Resource and Environment Ministers on behalf of the Provinces.

April 25, 1983
The Budget-Mr. Roberts
Under the terms of such an agreement, the federal Government will purchase one aircraft for each one purchased by the Provinces. Apart from the four which we will buy for the Yukon and Northwest Territories, it will be a matching program. Each CL-215 will cost about $6 million. Consultations are under way with the Provinces to finalize their arrangements for participation in the water bomber purchase program.
The Canadian CL-215 is the only aircraft specifically designed as a water-scooping fire bomber and it is the only modern fire bomber in production. This aircraft is a Canadian concept and it is a major achievement of the Canadian aerospace industry. It has a proven track record and it has earned an excellent reputation both in Canada and overseas.
The water bombers purchased by the federal Government will constitute a national fleet to meet peak fire season needs when provincial firefighting resources are fully committed. That is when the failure to have enough "flying fire trucks" results in hundreds of millions of dollars worth of timber losses, such as in the 1980 fire season when forest losses were estimated to be over $350 million.
The aircraft will be assigned to individual Provinces to operate and they will be responsible for all operating costs. Allocation of these aircraft for firefighting duty during peak forest fire periods will be co-ordinated by the Canadian InterAgency Forest Fire Centre in Winnipeg. The Department of Transport will own the national fleet of aircraft on behalf of the federal Government. The Provinces and Territories will operate the national fleet as part of their present fire bomber fleets.
Besides keeping a technologically important production line in operation, the water bomber purchase will enable the federal and provincial Governments to command a large enough production run to allow for both continued and for economic production. As a result, Canadair will have a viable production schedule that will benefit the company, the forest industry and the labour forces of both the aerospace and forestry sectors.
If I still have a moment, I would like to spell out in a little more detail some of the job implications of such an effort. Of course, I cannot give a specific commitment on job creation in relation to the program because it will depend upon the cooperation of the Provinces and the finalization of our agreements with them. It will depend to some extent as well on whether the international orders which we expect will follow through from this program. We believe there will be an international market for at least 20 of these CL-215s. If one takes into account the four that we are purchasing, the 16 which we are prepared to purchase if matched by the Provinces, the 16 which the Provinces purchase to meet that commitment and another 20 which we expect to sell internationally, we are talking about potential sales of 56 CL-215s over the next four-year period. That will create jobs for Canadair in Montreal. It will also create jobs elsewhere such as Fort Erie, Sault Ste. Marie, Winnipeg and Vancouver. There is that additional spin-off effect. Repair, overhaul and maintenance is expected to create more jobs as well.
In total, we believe this program could create 1,200 direct jobs and 265 sub-contract jobs. If the orders go out for all 56 planes as we expect, it will provide something like 9,000 person-years of work over the first stage of the program.
Mr. Speaker, I have dwelt on this one example because it is of particular concern to me as the Minister responsible for forests, but I hope it illustrates how, through the Special Recovery Projects Program, we can at the same time bring forward projects and start them now. This will have the effect of enhancing the productivity of our country, of realizing its potential, and of creating jobs in the immediate short term. That is what the program is about. That is what it is designed to do. Mr. Speaker, that is what it will do.


Mr. Speaker, I have a couple of questions for the Minister. First, can he assure the taxpayers in the country that the amount paid Canadair for these water bombers will be the market value of those water bombers and not inflated prices such as it appears the Canadian Government has paid for the Canadair jets? It paid a higher price for the same jet that the private sector would pay a much less amount for. Can the Minister assure us that we will be paying the fair market price and not a price that is inflated because it is being purchased by the Government?


Mr. Speaker, I can assure the hon. gentleman that negotiations for the purchase of these planes will be carried on by the Minister of Supply and Services, a tendering and negotiation process which is exactly and explicitly on a commercial basis. I would remind him as well that-


Tendering.


Tendering and negotiation process on a commercial basis, as Supply and Services always does. If the Hon. Member would stop talking for a minute and listen, I would point out to him that the federal Government will be purchasing four of these planes. The others will be purchased through programs with the Provinces so that the Provinces will be undertaking negotiations with Canadair. Twenty of them we expect to be bought on the international market and negotiations will take place internationally by those purchasers. So the bulk of these planes will be purchased by provincial Governments with our co-operation. The Hon. Member is talking about a process of negotiation with Canadair carried on through ordinary competitive arrangements and on a commercial basis by Supply and Services and by provincial Governments.


I have two quick questions for the Minister. Has he any guarantees from any of the Provinces that they will participate in this program? Second, the Ontario Government traded in their Canadair jet for two water bombers. Are those two water bombers included in the 16 that the Minister is referring to that the Provinces will be negotiating?


The answer to the second question is no, that arrangement is one which has already been made by, as I
April 25, 1983

understand it, the Province of Ontario. It has nothing to do with the federal Government or this program announced today.
The answer to the first question is yes. It was clear at the meeting of the Canadian Council of Resource and Environment Ministers in September that the Provinces are anxious to participate in the program. The committee of provincial officials has prepared proposals which are supported by at least half of the Provinces. I could tell the Hon. Member which Provinces these are if I had a moment. The arrangements have yet to be finalized, but clearly there is a determined volition on the part of a large number of the Provinces to participate in the program. Specific details of the contracts, arrangements and so on still have to finalized.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question based on the shipbuilding part of the program. I appreciate that this is not necessarily within the Minister's administrative domain, but he did mention the $630 million for shipbuilding. I have a wire service story on that release. I would ask the Minister how much of that $630 million is new money as opposed to recycled money; and has there been a definition as to the division of that money between the regions, as mentioned in the press release?


Mr. Speaker, as the Hon. Member said, this is an area that goes beyond my administrative responsibilities. I cannot reply to the second part of his question, though I am sure my colleague the Minister of Supply and Services will be in the House at Question Period and ready to respond if the Hon. Member wishes to put the question to him.
In answer to the first part of the Hon. Member's question, I believe I am correct in saying that this is all new money above and beyond what has previously been directed to the program. This is an addition of funds, not the reworking of existing funds.


Mr. Speaker, I would first congratulate the Minister on this concept of a national fleet of water bombers. He has graphically portrayed the advantages this will have to the country in terms of the loss from fires every year.
I would ask the Minister whether the national fleet of 16 planes as he has described it will include only eight aircraft, or half of them, owned by the federal Government that will be available to be moved to wherever in the country the fire danger is the worst or where in fact there are losses from fires, or will they all be stationed in certain Provinces? It seems to me that it would be advantageous to have 16 planes available on a national basis to go to wherever the fire hazards were the worst.
Second, a press report this morning, I believe from The Globe and Mail, indicated that the laboratory research facilities were going to be increased, I believe in Eastern Canada, Northern Ontario, and Western Canada. Is any of that funding under the Special Recovery Projects going to be allocated to increase the laboratory facilities at the Great Lakes Forest Research Laboratory in Sault Ste. Marie, which
The Budget-Mr. Roberts
essentially serves, at the federal level, research programs for Northern Ontario?


Mr. Speaker, I am not sure whether there is a failure of communication between the Hon. Member and myself in relation to the first part of his question. I hope that there is not. Four of the water bombers will be in the Yukon and Northwest Territories. Clearly they will be federally operated. We are agreeing to purchase 16 more on a matching basis with the Provinces. I cannot tell the Hon. Member exactly where they will be because I cannot tell him which Province is going to buy five and which is going to buy three and so on. The extra 16 planes purchased by the federal Government would match the 16 purchases of planes by the Provinces and will be allocated to match the provincial contribution. If, hypothetically, Ontario bought four planes, the federal Government would buy four planes which would be owned by the Ministry of Transport but operated and maintained in conjunction with the four planes the Province had purchased. It will not be, as it were, one massive national fleet that goes swinging from place to place.
The Hon. Member may be concerned about the question of how these national efforts are going to be directed to specific locations as the fire problem shifts from Province to Province or area to area during the fire season. The answer is that we have established, with the provincial Governments, the InterAgency Co-ordinating Centre at Winnipeg to co-ordinate all of these efforts. Thus, the federally owned planes plus the provincially owned planes from all of the Provinces will be allocated to meet the pressing fire need wherever it may occur. I do not want to get too trapped by semantics, but in a sense both the provincially owned planes from all of the Provinces and the federally owned planes will be available to focus on the current fire threat in whatever part of Canada it is to be found.
This is a first step on the part of the federal Government. We have never been involved in the purchasing of water bomber equipment before. We believe, however, that the need is so pressing and so great and that forestry is such a fundamental resource for Canada that we should participate. We must participate in a co-operative and co-ordinating way with the Provinces, since they are the owners and managers of the resource and already do have major firefighting installations at work. I may have gone on too long, but I am trying to answer the Hon. Member's question as specifically as I can.
In terms of research centres across the country and the Canadian Forest Service efforts, I cannot make any announcement to the Hon. Member at the present time about what will happen there. I can say that within the next few weeks I hope to be able to say some things with respect to it which I hope he will find encouraging.


Mr. Speaker, the CP wire story with respect to the recovery programs quotes officials as saying that "there will be a sleek publicity campaign over the next several weeks to attract maximum attention." I have no quarrel with "sleek"

April 25, 1983
The Budget-Mr. Lambert
or "publicity" but I wonder if, attendant upon the program, there is a paid advertising campaign in order not to ask for supplementary funds. I would remind the Minister how counter-productive the paid Government advertising was with both the National Energy Program and the Constitution, given the size of the deficit. I wonder if he could assure me that with regard to the merchandising justified by the Government there will or will not be a paid advertising campaign with respect to these capital programs?


Mr. Speaker, in terms of publicity or public relations, I should say that my colleagues and I believe it is important to communicate these proposals to the regions of the country. Some of the projects will have local significance and others will have national importance.
We are going to make a special effort and I think you will see the Ministers and Members on the Government side travelling the country talking about these things. I think that is entirely appropriate.
No special advertising campaign is presently envisaged. In the nature of things I cannot say that no informational material will be produced or distributed. We intend to communicate the program which 1 think is the legitimate responsibility of the Government, but we do not have in mind some massive paid advertising campaign.


The period for questions and answers has expired and regretfully, without unanimous consent to continue, I have to call on the next speaker. The Hon. Member for Edmonton West (Mr. Lambert).


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to speak so early in the budget debate. I must say that I was rather taken with one particular feature of it. That was not the hubbub about the so-called disclosure of a page or two of the budget, but that at the end of the Minister's delivery Government backbenchers and Ministers stood up and applauded in a frenzy, calling "more, more, more".
Watching them during the debate I notice that every time the Minister said there would be $80 million for this or $120 million for that, they applauded. They reminded me of a nest of bird chicks-every time the parent bird came near the nest there was a great squawking and mouths opened wide. Every Hon. Member opposite gave the visual impression that the $80 million or $120 million was destined for his or her riding. That is precisely what was happening.
I hope Hon. Members have now examined the budget in detail. If they have they will see that the money is not there. All those investments they thought they were going to get are figments of the Minister's imagination, trying to sell something that does not exist.
Let us look at some of the incentive programs. In so far as they shall be tax deductible, there will be tax allowances. For the firm in a loss or break-even position a tax credit may be carried forward. But is that sufficient to induce the management to enter into hard cash expenditures for additional facilities at this time? If a firm or industry is operating at twothirds or three-quarters capacity, what good are incentives to improve plant and machinery if the goods are not saleable? This is a very subtly acceptable delusion. At other times in the past this practice has been in effect, and not only espoused by Liberal Cabinet Ministers.
I recall the recession that started in 1956 and ran through 1957-58 and 1959. Attempts were made to induce businessmen and manufacturers to invest in more machinery and plant through double depreciation allowances and that sort of thing. Subsequent Liberal Cabinet Ministers did the same sort of thing. I thought this was a good idea until I talked to members of the Canadian Manufacturers' Association and the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. They unanimously said that, notwithstanding what appeared to be an interesting proposition, it was a non-starter. They asked: "Why should I, as a machine tool manufacturer, for instance, invest some $2 million in new machinery-$2 million of hard earned money that I am going to have to spend-if the industry is operating at two-thirds capacity and I will sell additional production only if I lower my price or gain some other competitive advantage? Should I do that so that I can get a double depreciation break on new equipment, when I am not making much money? What good is that to me?" Is that the argument about many of the incentive programs that the Minister indicated are the stars of his budget?
We will see about the accelerated capital projects program, the one to which we added the $200 million-the Minister's "save my reputation" addition to the budget.
This morning's The Globe and Mail listed certain things that are going to be done-public works buildings in Halifax and Vancouver, additions to Dorval Airport-things that are going to be judiciously placed in Liberal ridings. When we see the list we will see how they will benefit the country.
Another thing that struck me is how the word "incentives" has been rehabilitated in the Department of Finance. On November 12, 1981 when the Department of Finance was under the jurisdiction of the present Secretary of State for External Affairs (Mr. MacEachen), tax incentives were tax havens. They had become tax expenditures. They were to be obliterated. Not only in the November 12, 1981 budget were they anathema to Government financing, but even the Parliamentary Secretary will agree that on June 28 we still had some of the same language. During the summer the tax advisers were again saying that incentives were bad for the system. Now they have been rediscovered, and we hear them talking about incentives.
I hear the Hon. Member from Newfoundland making a remark. He strikes me as one of these big seagull chicks that opens its mouth every time there is mention of more funds being provided for this incentive or for that grant. The incentives, of course, do not cost the Government anything. Unless something is done, no allowance is claimed. In any event, most of the industrial incentives are on the basis of tax credits.
April 25, 1983

Again, if nothing is done there is no cost to Government. Therefore, take all the sponge and water out of a good part of the budget and what is there?
The one area on which I want to comment before my time expires is the removal of the $100 allowance for charitable and medical expenses and its replacement with actual expenditures based upon receipts. All I can say is that 1 think about two-thirds of all personal taxpayers do not make that $100 contribution to charity. All you have to do is to ask any clergyman, any parish priest, what is the average donation within his or her parish. All you have to do is ask national charitable organizations what is the average contribution. The sum total is far less than $100. Therefore, taxpayers will lose on this provision. Those, however, who do contribute to charity in excess of $100 based upon this marginal rate will get a benefit of maybe $8 to $20. The Government will gain up to $80 and more on this particular provision.
Socially I think there is something I should draw to the attention of Hon. Members. In many instances gifts to private or voluntary organizations that qualify under the charitable gifts donation clause in the Income Tax Act were for $100. A gift of less than $100 gave no advantage and no incentive to the taxpayer because the taxpayer already had the deduction under the Income Tax Act.
There is a great deal to be said for gifts to voluntary organizations. I know some of my colleagues will be saying a good deal more about this during the debate on the Income Tax Act. But I feel that as much as possible we should encourage gifts to charitable organizations. I do not say there should be a tax credit dollar for dollar, but what is wrong with setting up-I am not the author of this particular suggestion, it has been made several times-a scheme similar to that given to people who make political donations within certain rules? On the first $100 there should be a tax credit of, say, $75 and then on up through the limits, but not a limit of $1,000. I know there are many people who are well endowed with worldly goods who are quite prepared to donate to a university, a church, a museum, an art gallery or what have you, gifts far in excess of $1,000. They should receive some encouragement. But al