A message from Her Excellency the Governor General transmitting Supplementary Estimates (A) for the financial year ending March 31, 1990, was presented by the Hon. Robert de Cotret (President of the Treasury Board) and read by Mr. Speaker to the House.
Hon. Robert de Cotret (President of the Treasury Board) moves:
That, pursuant to the provisions of Standing Orders 81(5) and
81(6), Supplementary Estimates (A) for the fiscal year ending March
31, 1990, laid upon the table earlier this day, be referred to the
Standing Committee on Agriculture.
The House has heard the suggestion of the Hon. President of the Treasury Board. Is it agreed?


Agreed.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to table in both official languages a nomination which was recently made by the Government pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 110(2) which is deemed referred to the Standing Committee on Energy, Mines and Resources.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I rise on a point of order.


The Hon. Member for Churchill on a point of order.


Mr. Speaker, I suspect that the Liberals are rising on the same point of order.
We understand that the annual report of Canada Post was supposed to be tabled in the House at this time today. It is the report that indicates that Canada Post made a $96 million profit on the backs of Canadians last year. We were informed it was going to be tabled in the House.


Mr. Speaker-


Before I hear the Hon. Minister I will hear the Hon. Member for Glengarry-Prescott-Russell.


Mr. Speaker, indeed I am rising on the same point. We had a closed-door briefing at 10 a.m. this morning on the understanding that we would not reveal the information until the document was tabled in the House of Commons at 11 a.m. If in fact the document was tabled in the manner in which we sometimes refer to as the "back door" method, in other words, merely handed to the Clerk, I would like to know why it was under embargo. If it was tabled with the Clerk, when did that occur?
I make that request since as we are speaking the President of Canada Post is holding a press conference across the street in order to make his document public. I want to know, has this document been tabled before the

June 15, 1989
Point of Order-Mr. Murphy
House. If it has, then, of course, the next question is why were Members not informed.


Mr. Speaker, I appreciate that my friends opposite want to comment on the progress that has been made by Canada Post, the fact that it is no longer a money losing proposition as it was under the previous Liberal administration, and the fact that it is more efficient and more Canadians are getting better service.


Hear, hear!


I do not want to delay that.
My friend referred to a closed-door meeting. Let us not put the connotation of a closed-door meeting on the subject. Hon. Members were given the benefit of a briefing. I would not put that connotation on it. I understand that it is possible to table these documents via the front door, that is, in Parliament, or through the Clerk's office.


Has it been tabled?


I am sure that if it was tabled it was tabled through the Clerk's office, and tabled properly. If my friend has any allegation that it was not tabled properly then-


Was it tabled or not? That is all I want to find out.


I normally do not like to debate this type of procedural motion on an opposition day. I do not want to delay the debate on the very important motion before the House. I think we can deal with it privately, if my friends will give us a minute to check.


Mr. Speaker, I have in my hands, for the information of the Government House Leader, the press release that is being issued in the press conference being held in the press theatre right now across the street. It states in the second paragraph that the figure $96 million in profits released in the corporation's 1988-89 annual report were tabled today in the House of Commons.
It is our understanding that those were going to be released today. As such, I want to ask if it is the intention of the Government to ensure that the report is referred to the Standing Committee on Consumer and Corporate Affairs and Government Operations. Whether it is via the back door or the front door we want to ensure that
the reference is made to the committee as well as ensuring that the report is tabled here.


The Table is presently checking the timing of the tabling in the official manner. I want to assure my friend that that report will be referred to the appropriate committee. I know my friend will want to bring lots of witnesses to show Canadians why Canada Post is now making money and delivering the mail much more efficiently than it had been under the Liberals.


Mr. Speaker, I was invited to no briefing this morning. I was not invited to any news conference this morning. However, I am very much interested in seeing this annual report of what some of us believe has become the major corporate vampire in Canada.


Mr. Speaker, I want to return to the issue at hand. With respect, we are not debating the merits of what is in the document. Members of the House have been asked this morning if they were interested in receiving an advance briefing. The condition for that advance briefing was that we were under embargo until the document was tabled in the House.
Unless we can find out if the document has been tabled or not, I would submit that Members are prevented from even commenting on the report on the honour that we gave this morning not to reveal the contents. This is no laughing matter for the Minister of Justice (Mr. Lewis) who should at least know as House Leader what is going on and what document his own Government is tabling.
Right now a press conference is going on across the street. I am expected to comment on that. We can be dam sure that the President of Canada Post is not delaying his press conference while we are here arguing about whether or not the document has been tabled. I am still under embargo. I have given my word of honour. I intend to keep it even if the Government is making it almost impossible for me to do so.


Mr. Speaker, I think what has become clear, as the Government House Leader has indicated, is that the Government wanted to introduce this report via the back door. Obviously, it realized, too, that these profits have been made on the backs of the workers of Canada Post. The Government
June 15, 1989

wanted to cover up so that we would not get into any discussion in the House of Commons.
The fact that we find out now that it has been tabled via the back door-


Has it?


I want to remind Members of the House that today's motion before us has to do with the fishing industry in our country. It is being devastated on both coasts. It is time to get on with the debate, in recognition of the fact that the Government did slip a fast one past us today.


Mr. Speaker, the question put is a simple one. The Government can table reports by having a Minister stand in his place and do so openly. That is public.
The Government can also table reports through the Clerk. We call it via the "back door". Those are not my words. It is the traditional wording for ministries wanting to table documents. It is done every day via the back door. It is through the Clerk's office and it is without becoming public. I ask the Speaker can you tell us, Sir, whether that document was tabled via the back door today?


I am very cognizant of the importance of the question of the Hon. Member for Ottawa-Vanier and the interventions of Hon. Members. The particular report was brought to the Journal's office some time between 10.30 a.m. and 11 a.m. this morning.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to present the ninth and tenth reports of the Striking Committee.
If the House gives its consent I intend to move concurrence in the tenth report later this day. I would ask at that time that we dispense with the reading of that report by the Clerk at the table as the report concerns only membership changes to Standing Committees.
[.Editor's Note: See Today's Votes and Proceedings.]
Petitions


Mr. Speaker, I would like at this time to move concurrence in the tenth report of the Striking Committee, presented earlier this day.


Does the Hon. Member have the unanimous consent of the House to move this motion?


Agreed.


Is it the pleasure of the House to adopt the motion?


Agreed.


Motion agreed to.
Mr. Speaker, within the boundaries of Metro Toronto and the city of Scarborough, Canadians have a rare opportunity for a major environmental issue. That issue is to establish a Rouge River Valley system to be a preserved and protected area for all generations.
The Rouge River is a unique and precious natural area. It has significant archaeological sites within the valley that date back many thousands of years. The whole 5,000 acres of this land is being threatened by the discussions of the Metro Toronto Council of pursuing this as a garbage dump site. It is threatened as well by the Government of the Province of Ontario, who wish to build a major freeway right up through the middle of this particularly beautiful valley.
The constituents of Scarborough Centre, people in Metro Toronto and Canadians right across the country are really outraged with both of these discussions taking place.
They call upon the Government of Canada in the national interest, to join with the mayor of Scarborough, the federal Minister of the Environment for the Government of Canada, and the coalition of Scarborough community associations to have the Rouge River Valley preserved as a Canadian heritage land or a provincial park.

Order Paper Questions


Mr. Speaker, with the restructuring of VIA Rail and given the location of the riding of Gaspe and the services that it receives from VIA Rail, I have the pleasure and the honour to table, in both official languages, more than 2,500 names asking VIA Rail and the Government to kindly consider the restructuring of VIA Rail, which is an essential service in danger of disappearing from the Gaspe peninsula. We are strongly oppossed to any disappearance of the minimal essential service that we have in the Gaspe.


Mr. Speaker, I have the honour to place before the House a petition which has been signed by thousands of Canadians who live on the West Coast, and call on the Government to initiate a full and complete public inquiry into the Government's ability to prevent, contain and clean up oil spills on the West Coast.
I have also had the pleasure, as a representative for the people in these communities, to lay on the desk of the Prime Minister (Mr. Mulroney), 200 letters from individuals, which is part of a massive mail-in campaign to get the Government to initiate this inquiry.
Individuals on the West Coast have not had the moneys which they paid out of their own pockets in assisting in the clean-up reimbursed by the Government of Canada.
It is their intention to sue the Prime Minister, the Minister of Transport (Mr. Bouchard) and the Minister of the Environment (Mr. Bouchard), in order to recover the moneys which they have had to put out on behalf of Canadians.
I lay the first of many petitions dealing with the issue of launching a public inquiry on the coast of British Columbia into the oil spill clean-up.


Madam Speaker, I am pleased to present a petition this morning
from many petitioners from the Province of Manitoba, from communities including Brandon, Dauphin, Swan River and Garland.
The petitioners point out to the House that schizophrenia is a major illness in Canada. They call upon Parliament to ensure that research efforts related to schizophrenia will in the future be commensurate with the seriousness of this illness in Canada.


Madam Speaker, I have the honour to present a petition signed by a large number of residents from communities in northern Saskatchewan, such as Prince Albert, Shell-brook, Meath Park, Spruce Home, Weirdale, Smeaton and others.
These petitioners are asking that Parliament instruct the Government not to remove oats from the marketing jurisdiction of the Canadian Wheat Board and to place oats and barley under the Canadian Wheat Board Act so that in the future Parliament, farmers and their organizations will need-to be consulted if any changes are made in the marketing of these products.


(Questions answered orally are indicated by an asterisk.)
Madam Speaker, Question No. 63 will be answered today. I ask that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.


Question No.63-Mr. Boudria:
Did the government incur any costs in (a) the printing, mailing and distribution of the April 27, 1989 Budget (b) media advertising and promotion of the Budget (c) any media campaign of April 1989 on the deficit and the accumulated debt of the government of Canada and, if so, in total, what were they?
The costs were: a) $2.6 million; b) $110,000; c) $2.7 million.
June 15, 1989


The question as enumerated by the Hon. Parliamentary Secretary has been answered. Shall the remaining questions stand?


Agreed.


Mr. David D. Stupich (Nanaimo-Cowichan) moves:
That this House reaffirms the Government's pledge to the West
Coast salmon and herring industry to "not allow jobs, historically
established, to be threatened" by any government response to GATT
rulings.
On a point of order, Madam Speaker. There have been consultations among the Parties and I think you will find there is unanimous agreement that the Parties may divide their 20-minute and 10-minute question and answer slots. If they so wish, they can divide those slots into two Members speaking for 10 minutes each with a five-minute question and answer session to follow.


Is there unanimous consent?


Madam Speaker, we on the Government side are happy to co-operate on that.


The Hon. Member for Winnipeg.


Yes.


The Chair would appreciate, to help everyone keep the time straight, if the Hon. Member intends to speak only for 10 minutes, the first one in the 20-minute slot would mention it. It would make things easier. I do thank the House for their co-operation. I now recognize the Hon. Member for Nanaimo-Cowichan.


Madam Speaker, the motion we have moved is one which has the full support of the New Democratic caucus. It is also one which demands the support of everyone in the House.
Supply
What we are doing is reaffirming the Government's pledge. We want the House to stand behind the Government so that all Canadians and all of the people directly involved, even internationally, will know how we feel about this resolution which can have ramifications far beyond the people directly involved. It could affect the whole of Canada and could even affect others as well. We welcome, ask and hope for the support of all Members in the House.
The issue arose from the U.S. challenge to GATT of West Coast fishing regulations which required West Coast salmon and herring to be landed in British Columbia to be processed. To be processed means landing, counting, eviscerating and grading. That is what the regulations required. These were challenged by the U.S. before GATT.
We need these regulations in B.C. to protect our market. It is an important market. Eighty per cent of that product is exported from B.C. and from Canada. We get top prices because we have been able to guarantee the quantities we promised. We have been able to guarantee the quality of our product better than any other supplier in the world. We need those regulations to protect our resource.
We are talking about five species of salmon and in excess of 1,200 separate races of salmon. To be able to protect each individual race, we have to protect the environment. When we are talking about the environment, we are talking about drift nets which are operating some thousands of miles out to sea and raiding our salmon resource. We are talking about a point as far distant from that as one in excess of 1,000 miles upstream in some cases, where some of the salmon spawn. All of that environment needs protection because we have to be able to ensure adequate escapement for each of the 1,200 races. We need that to protect the supply for the processors in British Columbia who have some $600 million invested in the processing industry. They have invested that, secure in the knowledge that they had control of the supply. They are constantly upgrading, rebuilding, and carrying on a continuing program of research and development to maintain Canada's standards of quality salmon being shipped to international markets.
We need the supply to protect the livelihood of some 19,500 people in the Province of British Columbia who work in the fishing industry. These are the Minister's own figures. There are some 8,000 shore workers and

June 15, 1989
Supply
11,500 fishermen on gill-netters, seiners, and trailers. We need the supply so that they may catch it and maintain their livelihoods.
On the East Coast there are some 90,000 people working in the fishing industry at all levels. They need the supply on the East Coast just as much as we need it on the West.
We need the employment. We need to add value to what, by international agreement, is a Canadian resource. Everyone has agreed that salmon coming down our rivers going out to sea and coming back, wherever they are in the world, belong to British Columbia if that is where they came from to begin with.
We want to be able to add value to that resource. It is important to the many small coastal communities of British Columbia. It is the life-blood of many of these communities. Without processing, they will simply die. It is important because it provides the only alternative to today's social assistance, yesterday's social welfare or relief. We abandoned those naughty words and now call it social assistance. Whatever it is, it is a totally demeaning existence for thousands of women in particular, especially native women, whose only opportunity to get away from social assistance is to work in the canneries operating on the B.C. coast.
We have discussed the American threat under GATT, and it has been said that the New Democrats are strong supporters of GATT. Indeed we are. We all believe in trade, especially for Canada, since we are a very strong trading nation. We have to believe in trade for the B.C. fish. We export 80 per cent of our fish products, and we do not want to stop that or interfere with it in any way. Indeed, we would like to build on that, to increase it, and to continue to improve the quality of B.C. salmon. However, to abandon recklessly our right to process our own resource would threaten our ability to guarantee the market supply.
We have to know what is happening. We have to be able to count and identify the species. We have to be able to identify and control the races. To guarantee our supply, we have to be able to land those fish, count them, eviscerate them, and grade them. We can only maintain
our world-wide reputation for quality if we have total control of the value added factor in Canada.
We have to protect the continued existence of the many races of salmon. It is not enough to protect just one race or even one species. We want to protect all the species and all the races. We can only do that if we know exactly what is being caught, where they are being caught, and when they are being caught. We have to be able to ensure that there is sufficient escapement of each race so that the race will survive. We want to maintain employment opportunities in Canada for the over
100,000	Canadian workers on both coasts who work in the fish processing industry.
We were told that the GATT decision cannot be appealed and we agree with that. However, we could have rejected it, as has been the practice of the United States and other signatories to GATT on many occasions. We had that option but chose not to use it.
The new regulations, relatively useless as they may be, are supposed to be GATT consistent. Why did we bow so subserviently to the American Government in abandoning our opportunity through GATT to reject that decision? Why did we not ask for a GATT ruling on the new regulations if we were determined to go that route? Why did we go instead to the Free Trade Council? If we are sure that they are GATT consistent, why not go to GATT to ask the question; why go to the Free Trade Council? Are we in danger of setting a precedent?
By knuckling under so early to the Americans, are we jeopardizing other measures such as Newfoundland's regulations that prohibit the trucking of groundfish out of Canada, similar regulations in New Brunswick and Quebec, Ontario legislation that provides for the further processing of minerals in the Province of Ontario before export, B.C. legislation that provides for the further manufacture of B.C. logs before they may be shipped out? How about the United States itself? The American Magnuson Act provides for the processing of American fish before it may be shipped out.
We have no desire to enter into any kind of a war, trade or otherwise with the United States, our best trading partner. However, continued good relations depend upon fair treatment on both sides. We are their nearest, largest, and most politically stable supplier of

raw and partially processed raw material. We want to maintain that relationship.
We have shown our good faith by entering into the Free Trade Agreement which, among other things, provides for Canada to ensure the American energy supply by promising to invest billions of dollars in developing our oil supply for the continuing benefit of our neighbours to the south. Consistent with GATT, we could have imposed an export tax, but we gave it up under the free trade deal. We control the export of and imposed a tax on the shake and shingle industry in British Columbia because it was interfering with shake and shingle production in the United States. We co-operated with the Americans and have done many things to co-operate with them. There would be no advantage to us or to them if we were to issue threats or counterthreats. Neither would there by any advantage to Canada or to the United States if we, with wanton abandonment, gave up control of our resources, most especially our renewable resources.
This is an important issue in British Columbia today. It can be an important issue for the Maritimes tomorrow and for Ontario's mining industry the day after. If we lose on this issue there will be nothing much left for Canadians other than to be hewers of wood, drawers of water, and miners of minerals. Even the oceans will be open to anyone.
This is an important issue. We should have taken a firm stand, and the opportunity still exists to do so. I invite Hon. Members to support actions taken by the Government to ensure that we do not lose out on this issue. We must not lose out because this is just the first step on the road to being nothing but hewers of wood, drawers of water, and fishermen for the world to exploit.
This is an important issue. We welcome the support of the whole House and hope that it will support the Government in its actions to ensure that we do not lose on this issue.


Madam Speaker, what we are discussing this morning is a two-pronged question. First, does the Minister stand by his promise that he made to the west coast fishing industry when he said that, as the motion indicates, this Government would "not allow jobs, historically established, to be threatened"?
Supply
Over the years on the West Coast we have seen processing plants fall by the wayside as the industry has been rationalized, to the extent that now the processing of the fish resource is focused in just exclusive centres. The Government has said that there is no requirement to process fish in these plants but that they can be transferred elsewhere for processing.
Having made that decision, why would anyone carry on processing in Canada when one can move those processing plants to the United States where labour costs are significantly less, where the rules and regulations are less stringent, and where one would have the advantages of economies of scale to make the plants more efficient? Why would a single processing plant remain in Canada, make it impossible for the Minister to keep his promise, and see the disappearance of literally thousands of jobs on the West Coast? Would the Hon. Member respond to that question? How can we save this industry unless this Government changes its position and keeps it promise?


Madam Speaker, the B.C. salmon processing industry has a world-wide reputation for quality. Our price is high, but the world is prepared to pay that price because it knows the quality of our product. There has never been any problem with that. We have a reputation for being able to meet our market promises. If we promise to deliver a certain quantity of canned salmon or fishery products generally from British Columbia, we deliver them. We guarantee the quality and there has never been any question about that.
There is continuing upgrading in our canneries. A lot of money is being spent annually to make sure that we deliver a premium product because we know we are in competition with other countries that are shipping salmon. We have proven we can do it in British Columbia, and it can be GATT consistent. What we are doing is making sure that when the product leaves our shores it is ready for human consumption in the best condition possible in the light of the most modem technology, the most modem equipment, and the best workers in the world.


Madam Speaker, a year ago April in a committee of this House a representative of the fish processors of British Columbia, Mr. Bob Hunter, speaking on behalf of the Fisheries Council and Processors, said that if the Government permitted the loss of Canadian fish to the United States in an unprocessed form, which is exactly what the Minister and the Government are proposing, the processors would move their plants to the United States. He

June 15, 1989
Supply
said that they would be crazy to leave them in Canada because wages are lower and economies of scale can be achieved in the United States. He made an emphatic statement.
Therefore, this Minister when he speaks in the House today should stand up in his place and explain to Canadians how he is going to turn around the emphatic statement of Mr. Hunter before a committee of the House who said that if the Government permitted the Americans open access to our fish, those jobs and factories would be moved to the United States. I would like to hear the comment of our critic on this matter.


British Columbia salmon has had an international reputation for quality for years, indeed decades, Madam Speaker. It has always been important for us to maintain that reputation in world matters.If we are going to keep them, we can only do that if we have control and a guaranteed supply to the canneries operating in B.C. If the barriers are down, some of those canneries are going to move to the United States and process the product there. They will not produce as good a product because they will not have to, but it is going to make our product that much more difficult to sell on world markets.


Madam Speaker, I have a question for the Hon. Member for Nanaimo-Cowichan. The Member has said that we should protect all our species and not just some. Therefore, is he advocating that all species of fish on the West Coast be landed on the West Coast, that we should have regulations or laws that demand that everything caught by Canadian fishermen be landed in this country first?


Madam Speaker, it does not give us complete control even if we could achieve it because some of the salmon are caught by Americans and in accordance with agreements. That is exactly what we want.
As I said, there are some 1,200 runs of salmon and five different species. To be able to police them, to know what is happening, to be able to perpetuate not just the five races but as many species and runs as possible, we have to know what is happening. The only way we can
truly know what is happening is when those salmon are landed in the Province of British Columbia.


I see someone rising. I made a mistake before and recognized the Hon. Member when he was not in his seat. I will try not to make the same mistake twice. The Hon. Member for North Island-Powell River.


Madam Speaker, I wonder if the Hon. Member for Nanaimo- Cowichan would answer a question as well.
This is such a blatant sell-out of Canadian resources. Most of the people in British Columbia believe that this sell-out was a trade off for a benefit elsewhere in Canada. They believe that this is the second sell-out of Canadians on the West Coast, the first time being the salmon and interception agreement. It is firmly believed that we were sold out on that issue in order that the Prime Minister would have something to throw away to President Reagan at the Quebec conference.
The magnitude of this particular sell-out is so horrendous. Would the Hon. Member speculate on what was traded off, what this industry was thrown away for? It is clear that it in fact was thrown away. Maybe the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans would be prepared to stand up in the House and explain why this was so blatantly thrown away.
I would like to have the Member for Nanaimo-Cowichan speculate on what this was thrown away for. It is the second throwaway that British Columbians have gone through in this particular industry.


Madam Speaker, I was hoping the Minister would comment as well. I would like to hear his remarks.
Could I just say that in this statement I am congratulating the Government for having taken a strong stand. I am saying that we want to keep that up. I am saying that we want to be able to control our resource in British Columbia in this case and in Canada as a whole with respect to the others. We want to achieve that, and we are standing with and urging the Government to support the motion that has been moved today.

For the moment, unless there is evidence that the Government is not supporting it, I would rather not go along the track of my colleague and hope that the Government will support the position we are establishing today.


Madam Speaker, I am delighted to have an opportunity to take part in this very important debate which is being watched by many Canadians, especially British Columbians. I understand that some British Columbians are in this House today to witness this important discussion.
The motion calls upon the House to reaffirm the Government's pledge to the west coast salmon and herring industry to "not allow jobs, historically established, to be threatened" by any government response to GATT rulings.
What underlies the motion from the perspective of the New Democratic Party which has sponsored it is the suggestion that if only we could live in the old days of protectionism and keep export restrictions in place which guarantee a non-competitive fish processing industry, we could somehow guarantee jobs of the past in perpetuity into the future.
Recent history has shown that the New Democratic Party is usually wrong on these questions. I remember very well the Hon. Leader of the New Democratic Party standing in this House in November 1984. In decrying the economic statement of the Minister of Finance which set out the economic agenda of the Government for the past five years, the Leader of the New Democratic Party alleged that Canada would lose 150,000 jobs as a result of the initiatives which were taken and introduced at that time.
The people of Canada know better and they judged better on November 21, 1988. The NDP is using the same fear-mongering tactics in this House today and is trying to frighten people. The only way its Members can gain political support is by frightening people about the alternatives.
Instead of 150,000 jobs being destroyed, as they put it, 1.5 million jobs were created as a result of the economic initiatives of this Government. The national unemployment rate dropped from over 12 per cent to less than 8 per cent. There were major reductions, approximately a one-third reduction, in every province and in most industries in Canada.
Supply
Hon. Members of the New Democratic Party do not want to hear the truth. The truth is that the fishing industry of Canada, during the four years that I have presided over it, has seen untold prosperity, unparalleled in Canadian history. The income, the amount of employment, the emphasis on quality, and the value added processing opportunity have increased because we have an increasingly competitive fishing industry.
I picked up a brochure put out by the fishermen's union. I wish it were as true as it appears to be to the innocent reader. However, there is a statement in this brochure that says "the rescinding of these export restrictions," which I will come to in a moment, "is a complete betrayal of a competitive Canadian industry". It goes on to state: "Why does the Government refuse to protect an industry?"
Any thinking person knows that we cannot have a competitive industry if we always attempt to protect it from the realities of the world market-place. TTie reality of the fishing industry is that Canada exports 80 per cent of our products. In terms of the Atlantic industry, which is a large part of it, two-thirds of our exports go to the United States market. In the case of the Pacific industry, a large proportion goes to Japan and the European Community.
The point is that we depend on access to those export markets to guarantee the jobs that employ our fish plant workers and our fishermen. If we are not competitive in the international market-place, we will not sell fish and the industries of Atlantic and Pacific Canada will not pay wages.
Indeed, the Government is dedicated to preserving and enhancing the opportunities for employment and the quality of employment in the Canadian fishing industry. That will not be done if we cut ourselves off from access to a market, 80 per cent of it being an export market, which ensures employment for our people.
That means we cannot have it both ways. We have to sell competitively into the market-place the highest quality product of any country in the world. That means customers have to feel that they get the best value for their money when they buy Canadian. That has increasingly been the case.
We should understand the nature of world trade and the liberalization of world trade to which Canada is committed. Members of all Parties are also committed, I presume, because they prescribe to the process of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in which Canada has been a participant for 40 years. Any country that is as export dependent as Canada knows that we cannot put up protectionist barriers to protect our industries, thereby ensuring they will be higher cost

Supply
industries, lower volume industries, less competitive industries, and still expect to have the free opportunity to export our products into other world markets. In other words, we have to play by the international rules of trade.
It is a fact of life that some years ago previous Canadian Governments decided to protect our salmon and herring processing industries by erecting export prohibitions on unprocessed sockeye and pink salmon and herring unless the roe was extracted in Canada. These were very important regulations at that time which helped the Canadian industry to become competitive. That competitiveness now does not depend in perpetuity on maintaining those protectionist barriers because these industries have grown up. They are big boys and girls now. We can compete. We do supply the best fish products available from our west coast fishery in those markets.
If this Government and this Minister did not believe that, we would not be devoting tens of millions of dollars to enhancing our salmon stocks on the West Coast. I would not have gone to Cabinet and worked to gain an increase in the budget of the Salmonid Enhancement Program of $208 million over five years with a firm commitment of that funding into our a base on into the next century, if I did not have confidence and faith in our ability to get maximum economic advantage out of the salmon producing and processing industry.
As I said earlier, the record of the last four years shows it is paying dividends. We have had the most prosperous years. Again this year we are to have a record year in terms of the runs of pink and sockeye. As I announced only yesterday in Vancouver, we will expect to have over 17 million pink and sockeye salmon caught this year. They will be processed in British Columbia. I am confident of that.
It is a fact of life that when fish are caught and landed close to the point where they are caught where there is infrastructure, in which there is a significant investment, which is modem, and which is the most competitive in the world, it would make no sense to truck it 600 miles to somewhere else. If we process it at that plant, we get the highest quality product. It will be Canadian Grade A prime product whether canned, frozen, or whatever
form, and we will get the best dollar from that product by processing in Canada.
These old regulations were found to be offensive because Canada, and in particular some processing companies on the northwest British Columbian coast, wanted to have their cake and eat it too. They wanted to go to Alaska and buy fish. This would not just be in surplus years, but in other years when the Alaskan processors did not have an adequate supply. They wanted to buy that fish by offering a higher price to Alaskan fishermen than the Alaskan processors were able to offer. Our processors in northwestern British Columbia want to go to United States waters and buy from their fishermen but in return say to the Alaskan processors that they cannot come into Canada and buy fish from our fishermen. That is clearly discriminatory and was found to be so by a panel of the General Agreement on Thriffs and Trade. If we want to export our products internationally, Canada has to play by the rules on a level playing field, and we were caught out in that case.
I could submit that the Americans would not have taken that case to the General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade had the Free Trade Agreement been in place, because we would then have had an avenue to negotiate a solution to that problem which we did not have then. We now have a mechanism to resolve such future disputes.


The resolution is delivery direct to the United States.


I want to point out to the House that whether we are talking about salmon, herring, codfish or other species, Canada is not God's gift to the world. We are only a small producer.


It's the biggest exporter in the world.


We take great pride in our salmon and herring stocks, but the fact is that we produce only 20 per cent of the world's supply of salmon and herring. That is an important point those nervous Nellies over there fail to acknowledge. Any country that wanted to buy raw fish and take it home and process it-it would be rather silly to truck it on ice for hundreds of miles-could buy five fish out of every six from somewhere else. For example, they could buy it from Alaska, from Norway, or from Iceland. They could buy herring from Atlantic Canada or

from the Nordic countries. In other words, there is ample choice in terms of supply of raw fish. Americans processors have access to five times as many American codfish and salmon as they do Canadian cod. Why would they all of a sudden come and buy fish from Canada rather than buy from their own fishermen?
One reason would be if our fishermen would sell it more cheaply. But why would our fishermen sell it more cheaply to Americans if they were getting a decent price from Canadian processors? This is a question that the New Democratic Party fails to address. By these export restrictions, our fishermen are held captive to the Canadian processing industry, and that is unfair to our fishermen. Now they fall silent because they know that the fishermen's union is split on this issue. Fishermen want and are entitled to the best price for their fish while we carefully manage, licence and allocate quotas to their benefit.
Now let us ask Members of the New Democratic Party what their position is. Should our fishermen not get a world competitive price for their fish? Why is it that the processing companies do not have to pay a competitive price? Because they have the supply guaranteed by those old export restrictions.
The point is that countries that would buy our raw fish have many other ways to buy fish. The only way they buy Canadian is if they can get it cheaper. Why would Canadian fishermen sell it more cheaply abroad if they can get the right price from Canadian processors? That represents the heart of the injustice that will be rectified by the new regulations. These will ensure that we maintain control of our herring and salmon for management and conservation reasons. Under the new regulations all West Coast species, all five species of salmon, must be landed in Canadian ports, inspected, counted, and biological samples taken, before anyone can buy this resource of Canada.


Is that what the free trade panel said?


Let us not jump ahead. I will come to that in a moment. The point is that all five species will be brought to shore.
Supply
I was interested a few moments ago when the Hon. Member for St. John's East (Mr. Reid) asked the lead speaker whether he supported this regulation. All Canadians should support such a landing requirement, including the processing sector, the fishermen's union and those organizations, and the New Democratic Party. I would like to know if Members of the New Democratic Party feel that groundfish, rockfish and other species should be required to be landed in Canadian ports. We believe this to be our right under Article 11 of the GATT and will be testing this shortly before a free trade panel.
If those Members are so immature as to suggest that we should not control our resource and manage it well by requiring it to be brought to Canadian ports, they should rise and state that they support those measures. They are attempting to say that the Government is going to relinquish control over our fishery. That is pure balderdash.
I have insisted during the whole period of the trade negotiations with the United States, that only Canadians shall be licensed to harvest fish in Canadian waters. We have steadfastly refused to allow American processing boats, buying boats or packers, if one wishes to call them that, to come into Canadian waters and take fish from our fishermen. This Government is adding to that assurance that we properly manage and conserve our resource by requiring it be brought to Canadian ports. To hear members of the Opposition, one would think they oppose that. Where is their sense of national patriotism?
The Government has done the correct thing in this matter by ensuring that Canadians receive the benefit of that resource at their point of landing where any self-respecting industry which intends to be competitive in the world market-place will have the best opportunity to process it right there. Not only to gut the fish. Members opposite want to have the guts taken out and then ship the fish away. We want them processed. We do not only want them to be stuffed into cans. We want our fish products put into TV dinners and higher value-added products such as fish cakes and restaurant meals. We want to get the maximum dollar value from our fishery resource. That adds up to employment for processing workers and for fishermen. It means they will get the best dollar for their product.

June 15, 1989
Supply
Canada cannot hide behind archaic protectionist regulations which shelter our workers from the realities of the world industrial commodity trading market.
When this Government took office Canada was eleventh among industrial nations. We were down at number eleven in terms of our competitiveness. I suspect when we see some figures soon, we will see that Canada is near the top. That is because this Government has rejuvenated Canadian industry in all sectors and expanding opportunity to add value to our natural resources.
That is why the Free Trade Agreement is so good for Canada and for the fishing industry. It removes the tariffs upon entry into the United States market which the Americans were applying to our salmon, herring, lobster and other fish products. With the removal of those tariffs, the price to the consumer in the United States goes down and we sell more, and we sell more value-added product, not more raw material.
I submit that members of the Opposition are way off base as usual. They were wrong in 1984. The Canadian people judged them wrong in 1988 in an election, and they will do so again in 1992 or 1993 because this Government has Canada on the rails to prosperity and we will stay there. We do not need pessimistic doom and gloom when Canadians are confident and optimistic about their future and the opportunities we can give to our nation.


I cannot help but regret the attitude of the Minister. The motion I moved states:
That this House reaffirms the government's pledge to the West
Coast salmon and herring industry to "not allow jobs, historically
established, to be threatened" by any government response to
GATT rulings."
I had hoped that the Government would agree with that, but it seems that the Government does not. The Minister in his response said that we are No. 11 in terms of competitive pricing. We are No. 11, and yet we never have had any problem selling our product at premium prices because we deliver the top product in the world. Why would people buy Canadian fish if they can get their own more cheaply? Because they know historically they have been getting a guaranteed and a superior product when they buy Canadian fish at top prices. We have never had any problem selling our Canadian fish.
Groundfish today are being trucked from Prince Rupert to the United States. Fish can be moved and are being moved. If you are prepared to sell without the restrictions, without the quality guarantees, without the quality reputation that we have for our fish products in British Columbia, then you can sell more cheaply if you do not really care what kind of garbage you are selling. I cannot say that much about the East Coast because I do not know it that well. But West Coast fishermen and the industry have built a world-wide reputation over decades for selling a guaranteed top quality product and for meeting the demands of the market. That has been our reputation, Madam Speaker.


Madam Speaker, I certainly agree with the Hon. Member. That is why our Canadian fish products sell and why we never have anything left over going to waste. It is top quality product priced competitively. That is the way it will continue to be. With or without this regulation, that is the reality. Our industries have invested in the most modem technology. They have upgraded their plants.
If the Hon. Member is saying that the only way the industry can make a big enough profit is to pay the fishermen too low a price, we do not want that. We are on the side of the fishermen and the plant workers. It is about time the NDP were, too. If what they are doing is siding with the processing industry and saying the only way that industiy can make a profit is to keep paying workers too little, we do not agree with that.
I do not agree with the mischievousness of this motion. I am confident that the public will judge this Government as having created economic growth, new jobs and a more competitive economy in this country. That certainly has been true of the fishing industry these past four years.
Never has so much income been enjoyed, so much value added, so much use made of under-utilized species as has been the case under this Government. While I may not agree with the mischievous language of the motion which tries to protect archaic jobs in the form that was appropriate 20, 30 or 40 years ago, I can say with confidence to this House that there will be more employment, more rewarding and year-round jobs, not jobs that put people on unemployment insurance for six months of the year. This is a result of the competitive drive of this
June 15, 1989

Government to extract more value from our natural resources, to modernize our industry and to export more product.
The Hon. Member said our fishing industry has produced the best quality product. It is bought because of its high quality. It is not bought because of the protectionist regulation that was removed. We will have an opportunity to do more of that processing when all the fish is brought to shore.
The Hon. Member has not told me why they would support the old regulations which did not require that coho, chinook or chum salmon be brought to shore. They do not want that fish protected. We are bringing that fish to shore under this regulation. Those fish have been exported in uneviscerated form-guts in, if you like-for years with the support of the New Democratic Party.
We want that fish to be brought to shore so that we get first opportunity to process it, put it in its highest most value-added form; not just sockeye and pink, but chum and coho and Chinook. If they want to throw in ground-fish, I would like them to stand up and say that we want groundfish restricted to being landed at Canadian ports. I would like to hear that. I would like to know how some of their supporters who are crewmen on the trailers would feel about that. I am prepared to listen because I think it makes good sense. But I want to hear the NDP propose it in this House.


Madam Speaker, listening to the Minister give his response reminds me of an age-old struggle that has taken place between the Conservatives and the NDP which constantly misses the futures of people whose jobs are at stake.
The Government prides itself on giving millions of dollars to nati