Mr. Speaker, the Forest Resource Development Agreement with the province of Ontario expired in March 1989.
This deal was for $150 million, funded equally by the provincial and federal governments.
During the last two years, the Minister of Finance has cut the Department of Forestry's budget by $60 million. It is no wonder that the Minister of Forestry had only $25 million to offer Ontario to renew the agreement. Provincial officials had no choice but to refuse such an offer. An offer that contains a cut of 66 per cent in funding is unacceptable.
I therefore urge the Minister of Forestry to stand up for the forest industry at the cabinet table and obtain the necessary funds to renew the agreement with the province of Ontario.


Mr. Speaker, hon. members, I would like to take a few minutes of your time to reflect on the importance of Thursday, March 21 the International Day for the Elimination of Discrimination.
Canada is known as a country where justice and equality are the rule. We all know that but today, that is something that bears repeating. We have the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the Employment
Equity Act and the Canadian Multiculturalism Act. Soon we will have a new Canadian Race Relations Foundation and a new Department of Multiculturalism and Citizenship.
Racism exists, however, and unfortunately, some Canadians do not live up to our reputation as a nation.
That is something to think about, Mr. Speaker. Racism is a pernicious evil and it requires our utmost vigilance. It undermines people's confidence and prevents them from reaching their full potential.
Only when we have managed to root out this evil will we be worthy of Canada's reputation as a just and tolerant society, a model for the rest of the world.


Mr. Speaker, the conflict in the Persian Gulf has managed to obscure completely the very serious situation that exists in Lebanon. Canadians of Lebanese origin have made an impressive contribution to Canada's economic and social development. For this reason-one of many-it is unacceptable for the Canadian ambassador to be absent from Beirut. Lebanon is an occupied country. There are flagrant and constant violations of international law. Unfortunately, Canada has been very slow to react and to denounce those responsible. This is an intolerable situation. The Canadian government's silence on this matter should be a reason for Canadians to do everything they can to help the Lebanese people recover their independence and freedom.


Mr. Speaker, it is shocking but not surprising that the 1990 report of the Canadian Human Rights Commission highlights how this government has perpetuated gender based discrimination.

March 20, 1991
Canadian women are still over-represented in underpaid and part-time jobs. "Better child care arrangements", the report states, "would give women a better chance to participate in the workforce on an equitable basis".
But where is the national child care program that this Prime Minister has wholeheartedly promised more than once?
The broken promises are as abundant as the pink-collar ghettos that this government has increased, and that this report laments.
We should all be lamenting the fact that last October our Status of Women minister was quoted as saying that her government has no intention of adding targets and timetables to the hollow Employment Equity Act.
No targets, no timetables, no commitment. That is the record of this government on women's equality.


Mr. Speaker, Ducks Unlimited of Canada has been in the business of conserving waterfowl habitat and enhancing our wetlands across Canada for over 50 years.
Last year, Ducks Unlimited spent close to $60 million on projects from coast to coast, $60 million that went toward preserving and constructing new wildlife habitat.
Ducks Unlimited is a good corporate citizen. It not only spends this money on preserving waterfowl habitat, but it spends it as well to educate and inform Canadians, particularly young Canadians, about the value of our environment.
Ducks Unlimited deserves recognition and the thanks of all Canadians for a job well done. Even before it was popular to be an environmentalist, Ducks Unlimited was on the job of conserving.
When a flock of waterfowl fly over you this spring on their way back from the south, give a thought of thanks to Ducks Unlimited.


Mr. Speaker, I am happy to announce today that at the next Francophone summit, Canada intends to move a resolution that would designate March 20 as the Joumee intemationale de la francophonie.
In 1986, at the first Francophonie summit, the Francophone community project took shape. Since then, there have been summit meetings at Quebec City and Dakar. Participating countries have constantly broadened the cultural concept to include science, technology and economic issues. Consisting of more than 40 nations and nearly 400 million men and women, la Francophonie is based above all on language and a set of values. It has already set a number of goals in the areas of training, scientific research, and the advancement of cultural industries and communications. La Francophonie is not utopic but a forum for exchanges of views and a source of growth for all member countries.


Mr. Speaker, the attempt to show support for our Canadian merchants in border towns by introducing a fast lane at border points is nothing more than a licence to import goods illegally into Canada. I suggest the revenue minister would be hard pressed to find one Canadian border town merchant who would support this initiative.
What was needed was more employees at border point crossings to enforce the import rules. In an effort to facilitate Americans entry into Canada, the government has abandoned the concerns of Canadian businessmen in border towns just at a time when they are already witnessing severe business downturns.
This new procedure does not even warrant a trial period. On behalf of the retailers in all Canadian border towns, I am asking the government to close the fast lanes now and start to show some real concern for the problems confronting merchants in border towns.
March 20, 1991


Mr. Speaker, last Thursday evening in Quebec City, 800 people attended the Gala des Fideides to celebrate excellence and top performances in the business world.
I would like to congratulate all finalists and award winners: Restaurant Melrose, Transport Besner, Ber-clain Gestion Operationnelle, Multitel Inc., Centre d'ar-britrage commercial national et international du Quebec, Systemes Fortune 1000 and Glaverbec, and pay special tribute to the organizer of this event, the Sainte-Foy Chamber of Commerce, which together with other local chambers of commerce made this evening a tremendous success.
This is further proof that the Quebec City area has a dynamic business community.


Mr. Speaker, annually, the federal government and the Government of Quebec spend nearly one million dollars on manpower and occupational training programs. Forty per cent of these expenditures is earmarked for program administration.
Duplication and overlap resulting from both governments' failure to co-ordinate their initiatives are responsible for another $100 million being wasted. In fact, what we have here is a net loss of $500 million. Taxpayers are getting only 50 cents worth of direct services for every dollar invested.
That is why the Conseil du patronat, the central labour bodies, the Co-operative Movement, the Quebec Liberal Party, the Parti Quebecois and the Equality Party are asking for patriation to Quebec of all powers with respect to manpower and occupational training.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday the National Council of Welfare, an advisory committee to the government, tabled a report which stated that this government is the first government in history to pull back from its basic commitment to the needs of the poor.
In January, the Senate Standing Committee on Social Affairs, Science and Technology tabled its report "Children in Poverty: Towards a Better Future". In its list of 16 recommendations, the committee calls on the government to fully support the objective of substantially reducing child poverty in Canada and show leadership by undertaking co-operative strategies with other levels of government and the public at large to address the needs of our country's children.
The report also recommends that a national conference involving all levels of government and the general public on the subject of shared solutions to the problem of child poverty be held within the next 12 months.
In light of the Prime Minister's commitment and that of his government to the ratification of the UN declaration of the rights of the child, it is indeed pressing that such a meeting be called. Allowing children to grow up in poverty is not an option we can afford to leave unaddressed.


Mr. Speaker, 10.02 p.m. tonight marks the vernal equinox, the beginning of spring, the time when light and darkness are equal in both hemispheres of our planet. It also marks the celebration of Earth Day 1991, which this year is being held at the United Nations General Assembly.
At exactly 10.02 p.m., the United Nations Peace Bell, a symbol of global harmony cast in 1954 and made from melted coins collected by children around the world, will be rung three times by the personal representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations signalling a global moment of silent reflection and prayer for the well-being of Mother Earth. After the minute of silence, all available ambassadors from UN member states will each ring the bell one time to indicate global solidarity and the desire to preserve and nurture our common home, Earth.

March 20, 1991
In speaking with the Canadian Ambassador to the United Nations, the Hon. Yves Fortier, yesterday morning, it is my understanding that Canada will be represented at the ceremony.
At the moment the United Nations peace bell rings, I hope all Canadians will pause and pray with the world community that we all find the strength internationally to become responsible trustees of earth, each in our own area of ability and influence.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday the National Council of Welfare, the government's own advisory board, said what the NDP has been saying all along: Cuts to the Canada Assistance Plan are irrational and unconscionable, especially at this time of a recession.
It is just the latest indication of how ill-equipped the Minister of Finance is to deal with issues of social policy, and how inappropriate it is for him to attempt to do so. The budget is not the appropriate vehicle for major changes in social policies such as the cap on CAP.
Where did the Minister of Finance get his advice from? From bankers and businessmen who have never spoken to a person on welfare in their lives? Where was the highly publicized Children's Bureau when the latest cap on CAP was being considered? Was it even consulted, or are its powers so limited that it has no real say in how the policies of this government affect children? These policies do affect children because children make up 37 per cent of Canadians receiving welfare.
If this is what the Prime Minister means when he says children are our most valuable resource, then I fear for the future of children in this country.
This government does not listen to Canadians, but should it not listen to its own advisers and stop these attacks on Canada's social programs?


Mr. Speaker, over the past dozen or more years, CKNW-98 in New Westminster, British Columbia has celebrated the arrival of spring by distributing B.C. grown daffodils to all members of Parliament.
In spite of the snowiest winter of the last 40 years on the B.C. lower mainland, these daffodils remind us that spring comes to B.C. first and symbolize the start of a new season of tourism in British Columbia.
Thousands more daffodils are being distributed to shoppers throughout the lower mainland today by CKNW hostesses.
By the way, the station CKNW stands for Canadians Know Nice Weather. We welcome you all to truly beautiful British Columbia.


Mr. Speaker, tomorrow, March 21, the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, commemorates the day in 1960 when more than 70 people were killed and over 180 wounded while demonstrating peacefully against apartheid in Sharpville, South Africa. Six years later the United Nations proclaimed this date as a special day of observance when people of all nations should not just examine their own record on racism but do more to combat it.
Racism is a violation of human rights and dignity. It limits an individual's potential and dehumanizes both its victims and it perpetrators who themselves are victims of ignorance and fear.
I invite every citizen of our great country to renew his or her commitment to equality and freedom. The Canadian dream will not be complete until all people across this nation are accorded equal dignity, equal access and equal participation. In our hearts and minds we have to make every day the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. We have the vision; we have the drive; we have the will.
March 20, 1991


Mr. Speaker, my question is to the Acting Prime Minister.
Over the past several weeks we have been raising a number of concerns about this government's abandonment of Canadians most in need.
Seeing the Prime Minister now, as well as wishing him a happy birthday, I would like to ask him a very serious question.
As the Prime Minister knows, there is probably no sadder situation than young people who have turned to street prostitution. I have now had a chance to review in depth the decision of the Minister of Justice to refuse to fund programs to help get street prostitutes off the street. Is the Prime Minister aware that, in rejecting these programs, the Minister of Justice stated that she was doing so because of:
-the reality of budgetary constraints, the multitude of issues competing for government's attention -and the need of the government to spend money where it's most needed.
What can be more needy than the need of the street prostitute to get off the street? My question is to the Prime Minister.


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member refers to a very complex social problem. I have not said that I am not willing to participate in such programs. My remarks were made in the context of a response to a report by the standing committee of the House, and my concern is that the evidence shows that many street prostitutes are not getting off the street. Therefore, if we focus our program solely on those who are willing to come off the street, we will miss the opportunity to provide a very important connection between society and its caring services and those who are on the street.
However, I made it very clear in the report that I was interested in discussing the matter further with provincial governments who have the primary responsibility of delivering services in that area, and I am very open to supporting programs that can be shown to be effective.
Oral Questions


Mr. Speaker, in fact the studies show the exact opposite. The studies show that the majority of young street prostitutes want to get off the street.
Does the Prime Minister agree with the statement made by his Minister of Justice, which reads:
It is open to question whether such projects-
That is referring to projects to get prostitutes off the street.
-would have much impact on prostitutes, given the reality of the minimum wage that is available after having completed most training programs.
The minister's statement can be interpreted in one of two ways: either the minister is admitting that government training programs are a complete failure and people would be better off in prostitution, or she believes that people choose to be prostitutes in order to make a lot of money.
Will the Prime Minister dissociate himself from the remarks that were not made off the cuff, were not made in passing in a random interview, but were tabled in a report in this House? Are those his views and the views of his government?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. member's comments on my remarks are in a sense taken out of context of what I was doing, which was responding to the recommendations of the standing committee. I have in fact been involved in the city of Vancouver with programs that are designed to help people who want to get off the streets, not just prostitutes but other kinds of street kids.
Clearly it is a complex situation. The report of the standing committee seemed to be of the view-solicitation was in fact what it was reviewing; it was making recommendations on how to deal with the solicitation of responding or doing a review of the application of the government's law-that there was a simple connection between those programs and getting people off the street.
I was simply making the point that that is not clear, that it is a much more complex problem than that, and that all of those young people who are on the street need to be dealt with whether or not they show at any time a

March 20, 1991
Oral Questions
willingness to get off the street, as opposed to providing programs for those who indicate a willingness to get off the street before they enter the program.


Mr. Speaker, it is obvious that the hon. minister has not even read the Badgley Report on this subject. If she had, she would know that the majority of young street prostitutes do not want to be on the street. She is giving the wrong impression. It is absolutely not true that they are on the street because they want to and this is a totally ridiculous answer to a genuine social problem. I will direct this question to the Prime Minister. Given that his Justice Minister has turned her back on the young street prostitutes, will the Prime Minister at least give the young men and women who want to get off the street the chance to do so with federal programs or will he also turn his back on this major social problem?


Mr. Speaker, as the hon. member will know, the program is designed to assist young people on the street, whether they are prostitutes or not. The program is delivered by three levels of government. I come from a city in fact where the question of street solicitation is in fact more severe than in any part of the country, and I do not have anything to learn from the hon. member about that.
My response was to a suggestion that getting young people off the streets and out of street solicitation was a simple question of providing those kinds of programs. That is not the case. It is a much more complex problem than that. I believe it has to be dealt with by all of the levels of government that are involved in it.
I indicated very clearly in my response my willingness to continue to discuss these programs with provincial governments that have the primary responsibility in that area.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Acting Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
The Human Rights Commissioner indicates that the list of aboriginal issues continues to grow. The government has repeatedly ignored its responsibility to address the complex issues aboriginal peoples face. Many native communities are living in Third World conditions.
Will the minister commit himself to end the tragic price aboriginal peoples are forced to pay because of government policies that foster economic dependence instead of autonomy and self-reliance?


Mr. Speaker, I welcome the question from the hon. member today, because it gives me an opportunity to speak on behalf of the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and say that the four pillars the Prime Minister announced in last September's speech are well under way.
There is a very great concern in this government to see that the issues that have been dealt with in the human rights report are addressed. We are working toward that as rapidly as we possibly can.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the Human Rights Commissioner would like to hear that, because it is a very well-kept secret if anything is happening. I assume that even CSIS does not know about it, it is such a well-kept secret.
My question is for the Prime Minister. Aboriginal people and their leaders continue to be excluded and ignored in all serious constitutional talks. Last night, the Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development withdrew the government's promise of last summer for a royal commission on aboriginal issues. Another promise is broken.
Will the Prime Minister today announce a specific timetable and agenda for including the aboriginal people and their leaders in the constitutional process?


step-by-step progress on the four pillars that this Prime Minister announced. That is what we are doing.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister.
The news gets worse. Bankruptcy is up 68 per cent. Our national exports are down by $353 million. This means thousands of people have seen their dreams across this country die. It also means that the government's hopes of an export led recovery look out of sight.
The Canadian dollar continues to rise against other currencies. Will the government admit that this is forcing thousands into bankruptcy, cutting back our exports, and seriously threatening the national unity of this country?


Mr. Speaker, nobody is pleased with bankruptcies.
Although the bankruptcy report today is not a pleasant one, there are signs that the incidence of bankruptcy has dramatically slowed down. Therefore we feel that the economy is starting to turn around.
I might remind the hon. member that in the period of time from February 1990 to February 1991 there have been 132,613 new incorporated businesses in Canada. So businesses are being created; put that in the proper perspective.
There is economic activity going on, and there are businesses being created. We do not take heart in the statistics that came out today, but we do see signs that that type of activity is slowing down and that the economic activity is starting to perform much better.


Mr. Speaker, in fact in the past year there have been 430,000 permanent jobs lost in this country. If that is prosperity, you can have it, because we do not want that kind of prosperity in this country.

Mr. Speaker, here is my supplementary. Last November, the Minister of Consumer and Corporate Affairs promised to introduce a new bankruptcy legislation to protect the workers. All that has happened so far is that the number of bankruptcies increased every month. The
Oral Questions
government did nothing. Why? Why not have helped the people during this terrible recession?


Mr. Speaker, as mentioned earlier and as I said myself on a number of occasions, the government is just finishing the outline of reform of the Bankruptcies Act. As soon as all is in place, we will announce the concrete steps that will be taken and, considering the effort that was put into this, I am convinced that the Canadian people will be satisfied with what we will put on the table.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. I hope I have his attention.
I think we should keep in mind that most developed industrialized countries do not pay their investment brokers to sell government bonds.
How does the Prime Minister justify taking money from children to reduce the deficit when at the same time his government is paying Bay Street investment brokers $20 million to $60 million to sell Canadian bonds?


Mr. Speaker, this has been done for decades. The hon. member knows that. He is bringing a red herring to the floor of the House of Commons as usual.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Prime Minister. In the past 24 hours we heard that 1,800 employees lost their jobs at General Motors in Sainte-Therese; 125 jobs were lost at Emballage Sommerville in Longueuil and 90 jobs were lost at Ballin Inc. at Saint-Laurent, where a foreman and a vice-president were wounded by an employee who was told he was fired.

March 20, 1991
Oral Questions
My question to the Prime Minister is this: When will he and his government announce economic policies that will stop this steady stream of unemployed workers that is engulfing Montreal? Montreal has become the unemployment capital of Canada. When is he going to do something about it?


Mr. Speaker, speaking on behalf of the Minister of Industry, Science and Technology, I welcome this opportunity to answer the question put by the hon. member for Saint-Leonard. As far as General Motors is concerned, the hon. member claims that 1,800 employees were fired, while the truth is that General Motors management announced they were considering temporary lay-offs to prepare for the new Firebird production line, which takes quite some time. Mr. Speaker, the hon. member for Saint-Leonard is probably aware that our government, together with the Government of Quebec, was responsible for bringing General Motors to this location by providing a $220 million interest-free loan, and that employees affected by these lay-offs will be 95 per cent protected as far as their salaries are concerned.


Mr. Speaker, there we have the results of the government's economic policies. After investing over $200 million, we now have 1,800 employees laid off for a year. So much for the government's policies! When will you introduce policies that will put Montrealers, Quebeckers and Canadians back to work?


Mr. Speaker, speaking on behalf of the Minister of Industry, Science and Technology, I may again remind the hon. member for Saint-Leonard that he is hardly in a position to criticize the government, since the party to which he belongs was responsible for record job losses in the Montreal area from 1980 to 1984. When they fortunately were defeated in 1984, Montreal Island had been laid waste by a government that did absolutely nothing for Montreal Island during all the time they were in power.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister, in the absence of the Minister of Finance.
One of the principal justifications for the GST was that in replacing the manufacturers' sales tax it would promote Canadian exports. Yet, today Statistics Canada announced that in January imports rose by more than $500 million while exports declined by more than $300 million.
If the GST was intended to help our exporters, why has Statistics Canada concluded that "the net effect of the tax change was to generate an upsurge in imports, not exports"?


Mr. Speaker, the hon. gentleman who just asked the question is one of the most intelligent members of the opposition, so it throws me into despair that he would ask such a question when he knows that we cannot go by the immediate short-term one-month results. Everybody has to look at a period of at least five or six months to see what the trends are.
At the end of this year, believe me, the GST will have more than proven itself with the improvement we will have in our exports during the year. However we simply cannot go by one month only, and he knows that.


Mr. Speaker, the minister might prefer to read the comments of Statistics Canada if he does not want to wony so much about what I say. The fact remains that the success of the recent budget will depend in large part on export led growth. Yet, recent trade figures suggest that the very opposite is happening. This is a direct result of this government's failure to close the major gap between Canadian and U.S. interest rates and to lower the value of the Canadian dollar.
How can the Minister of Finance expect export led growth when he persists in maintaining interest rates that do little or nothing to close the gap between Canadian and U.S. interest rates?


Mr. Speaker, apparently the outside world looks very favourably upon Canada and wishes to invest in Canada. We can hardly blame our Minister of Finance and the government because we have done such a good job that more people want to invest in Canada than want to deinvest in Canada.
March 20, 1991

One of the penalties is that our Canadian dollar increases in value. This is not something that we can deliberately wreck.
I would like also to point out to the hon. gentleman that today we are announcing that we are accelerating tariff elimination again at the insistence of the private sector. We are going to have a second acceleration of tariff reductions with the United States on over $2 billion worth of goods to follow up on last year's accelerated tariff elimination, which once again proves the success of the U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Justice.
Human Rights Commissioner Max Yalden has said that the number of complaints received by his office increased by 10 per cent last year. He expressed concern about racist incidents that have taken place in many parts of the country, such as flag trampling and the desecration of graves.
My question to the Minister of Justice is: When will she finally bring to this House the important amendments to the Human Rights Act that she has promised?


Mr. Speaker, I hope to bring them forward some time this year. It is a source of regret to me that I am not able to bring them forward at this time. It has simply been the press of work and the other things that have gone forward from the Department of Justice.
It is a very, very comprehensive review, and I hope within the year to bring the amendments before the House.


Mr. Speaker, my supplementary question is for the minister acting for the Minister for Indian Affairs and Northern Development.
Oral Questions
Yesterday, the Minister for Indian Affairs and Northern Development, according to The Globe and Mail, rejected Mr. Yalden's call for a royal commission on aboriginal affairs.
Will the acting minister tell this House why the minister rejects that proposal and how their government plans to address what Mr. Yalden calls, and I quote: "this country's number one human rights priority"?


Mr. Speaker, nobody has rejected anything in terms of dealing with the question of Indian affairs.
What the government has done is launched on a program of real progress to address some of the issues that are outstanding.
For example, we have made great progress in the outstanding land claims issue in B.C., in spite of the court case that we heard a while ago. We intend to continue with that commitment regardless, in co-operation with the Indian bands out there and in co-operation with the B.C. government.
We also have a chiefs' committee which is in the final throes of discussions about how to fast track some of the specific claims that have been outstanding for years and years and years. We feel that we will be able to bring that forward very shortly.
We have just signed a framework agreement with the Westbank band of B.C. for self-government. We have many AFA agreements. Two of the latest: one in Saskatchewan gives the Lac La Ronge band the authority to manage $54 million and there was another one in Nova Scotia. There are a couple of AFAs coming up in Manitoba next week.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Prime Minister. I want to know what the Prime Minister thinks about the tragedy of young people forced into prostitution.
We know what the Minister of Justice thinks because in her reply to the Standing Committee on Justice report on prostitution she said: "The Badgley committee and the Fraser committee have demonstrated that very few prostitutes really wish to leave the street solicitation trade".

March 20, 1991
Oral Questions
The Badgley report says that 57.2 per cent of prostitutes wants to leave prostitution and start a new life.
Outreach and community workers are appalled by the fact that even a low statistic like that would be quoted by a reputable group like Badgley. They say it is much higher. Why is the government backing away from this? Why are they trying to slough off this problem? Why does the government not show some overdue and much needed compassion by bringing forward educational programs for the prostitutes to get them away from prostitution and on with their lives?


Mr. Speaker, it must be a slow day on the other side of the Chamber for the hon. members to be-


Oh, oh.


-repeating the same questions over and over again. I addressed the same question when it was asked by that member's deputy leader.
Mr. Speaker, I can understand why the Acting Leader of the Opposition would ask that question, but I am surprised that the hon. member would ask it since he is a lawyer and would have the knowledge of the Constitution of Canada and the constitutional jurisdiction. He would know that the provision of social services falls primarily within the provincial level. I can tell him that I am aware of and have been involved in discussions with people offering services at the provincial level to deal with those who are on the streets.
If the hon. member would be intellectually honest and would read the whole of my response to the standing committee report, he would know that I responded to three recommendations. Among the things that I did for example was indicate that I would not follow the recommendation of that report to fingerprint prostitutes, which is a very distinct way of confirming their identification as criminals and making it harder to get them off the street and back into a life. They are not criminals as such.
They are people with deep social problems that need to be addressed.


Mr. Speaker, the definition of slowness is how long it is taking this minister to act on this very serious problem.


Hear, hear.


How can we as Canadians and parliamentarians go blindly forward, knowing that the average age for young people entering into prostitution is 15-sometimes as young as 10 and 12-and they are out of the business by the time they are 25. If it is so lucrative, as the minister would have us believe, it is strange that they are out of this profession by the time they are 25. They do not want to get into prostitution. They are forced into prostitution. Physical violence and drugs threaten their every day.
Why will this government not act to do something to provide immediate help for these people?


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, regrettably volume does not improve the coherence of the hon. member's comments.
The hon. member knows that social services are delivered primarily at the provincial level. The two senior levels of government have veiy specific responsibilities and I believe that our government has addressed its responsibilities seriously. Street prostitution and prostitution among young people are symptoms of a much deeper social problem. One of the aspects of that problem is family violence. Many of these young people go on to the street as a result of trying to escape from violent and abusive relationships in their families.
This government has just announced a very significant program to deal with that and the justice aspect of that is quite considerable. My colleague, the minister of health and welfare, is the lead minister on this.
We have our particular responsibilities as a federal government and our responsibilities push us in the direction of addressing some of the root causes of this
March 20, 1991

terrible social problem. We are doing that. We are living up to our responsibility.


Mr. Speaker, how can the Prime Minister reconcile Canada's national interest and the sale of our key Crown corporations to foreign competitors?


What key corporations, Mr. Speaker? For if the hon. member is asking me whether there is something incompatible between the sale of some Crown corporations and the national excellence of Canada, quite the contrary is true. For too long now the federal government has endorsed intervention into the private sector on the part of the central government and its public servants who have not always had the experience required to run some of these companies which normally should operate in the private sector.


Mr. Speaker, yesterday de Havilland announced 110 more lay-offs at its plant in Downsview. These lay-offs are just part of the downsizing of de Havilland to make it more attractive so that the Italian and French governments can buy it off.
Will the Prime Minister step in a block this sale of de Havilland to its major international competitors, or is the Prime Minister still insisting on going down in history as the architect of Canada's deindustrialization.
This government's policies are so bankrupt that that bankruptcy is matched only by Canada's record bankruptcies today.


Mr. Speaker, that particular firm announced a productivity strategy in 1989 which stated that there would be some downsizing. The whole market for aircraft around the world has levelled off and has declined. They cannot be immune from that plus, these cutbacks were in the productivity plan tabled over two and a half years ago.
Oral Questions TRANSPORTATION


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport.
A series of Conservative ministers of transport have presided over the destruction of our national transportation infrastructure, VIA Rail and trucking in particular. Now this Minister of Transport wants to add the marine sector to the list of transportation modes disabled by the government.
Will the Minister of Transport listen to the warning voices from the marine industry and cancel the government's cost recovery program?


Mr. Speaker, under the previous ministers of transport of this government, there has been a great increase in the amount of service to the Canadian public. The trucking industry has had some difficulties, but we are working on that.
The airlines have increased service, and my friend well knows that particular fact.
The question of cost recovery has come up. I put out a discussion paper and allowed three months for input. I was asked to extend that deadline and I did so, from November 1 to the end of January. There were several submissions to my officials. We are looking at them and reviewing them and trying to come up with a solution which is reasonable for both the airline industry and the marine industry.


Mr. Speaker, I am sure the people of Brandon who lost all air service because of deregulation would be pleased to listen to the minister's remarks on the great things that deregulation has brought us.
In The Montreal Gazette this morning, the Canadian Exporters Association is quoted as saying:
The higher charges will unreasonably discourage Canadian
exports and encourage the expanded use of U.S. sea and air ports by
Canadian shippers.
They said that in a letter to the department.
Given the fact that we have already had a number of ships reflagged to foreign countries, a number of ships carved up for scrap, because there is not enough work on the Seaway or on the Pacific coast, will the minister not recognize that at very least in the marine industry, we

March 20, 1991
Oral Questions
cannot afford any additional costs. If we do so, there will be less ships, less taxes paid and less people working.


As I indicated to my hon. friend, we are looking at the submissions made by the marine industry and will factor them into whatever decision we come up with.
My friend made some comment about air services. I tell my hon. friend that we are working on a rather new concept these days. It is called market determining service.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Transport.
As the minister is aware, an unfortunate tragedy occurred in my riding on Monday when a Coast Guard ice-breaker collided with The Captain K, a smelt trawler, about 20 miles south of Port Dover with a tragic loss of life.
How could the ice-breaker Griffon, part of the Coast Guard's fleet responsible for the safety of our Canadian waters, with radar equipment which should detect boats in a 10-mile radius, not know The Captain K and crew were in its path. What assurances do the fishermen and their families have that every rule of safety was followed, that all the equipment used by the Coast Guard vessel was checked regularly and was completely functional the afternoon of March 18?


Mr. Speaker, I join with my hon. friend, and I am sure, everyone in this House and in the country, in expressing regret about the loss of life.
I can tell my hon. friend that the search has been undertaken by the OPP. We are providing any and all assistance we can to the OPP in that search. The circumstances of the accident are under investigation by the Transportation Safety Board.


Mr. Speaker, a supplementary for the same minister. Will the minister give his commitment in this House today that an independent federal inquiry will be held so as to assure the fishermen and their families that everything is being
done to determine the cause of this accident and prevent any further occurrence of such a disaster?


Mr. Speaker, I would suggest to my hon. friend that the Transportation Safety Board of Canada is in fact an independent board. I have every confidence that such an independent investigation will take place.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Supply and Services.
The minister said in the House yesterday with regard to the $100 million contract for the translation of the frigate technical manuals:
- the cost of doing the translation through the company which was set up by the prime contractor is competitive with the cost of doing translations within government and other areas.
Will the minister tell us exactly what he means by competitive costs of such a task?


First of all, Mr. Speaker, the hon. member is dead wrong. It is not a $100 million contract. It is a contract for $21.9 million.


That is a big difference.


The Department of Supply and Services canvassed industry throughout North America and around the world to see who could do some bidding. Industry has cited to DSS cost estimates of $300 to $500 per page for this type of technical translation. That works out to a contract, for the amount of pages being done, of between $30 million and $50 million. In fact, we were able to arrange a contract with a firm in the province of New Brunswick for $21.9 million. That is a cost saving to the Crown of Canada.


Mr. Speaker, the figures I have seen are quite different. If the minister was doing his homework he would know, through the Secretary of State's translation department, that he is paying about three times the normal price for that kind of technical translation. The cost of such a job is about 35 cents per word. Canadians would save at least $50 million.
In view of this situation, will the minister explain why a contract of such magnitude was given without public
March 20, 1991

Oral Questions
tenders having been called? The minister refused to answer yesterday and today. Canadians want answers.


Mr. Speaker, Canadians are getting answers, unfortunately the member is not listening.
Translating incredibly complex technical design pages is much different than doing instantaneous translation here in the House of Commons. We insist on making sure that we have good translations. We are not prepared, in any way, to jeopardize the safety of Canadian men and women at sea because the manuals, which explain how this sophisticated ship functions, are inaccurate or slightly different in their English and French versions due to translation errors. The law requires translation and we believe that francophones in this country should have the same opportunities on those ships as anglophones.


Mr. Speaker, my question is for the minister responsible for science and technology.
The National Research Council has laboratories in every province except Alberta, New Brunswick and Prince Edward Island. In its five year plan, the NRC stated that it would like to build a major laboratory in Alberta. The lab would compliment Alberta's economic strength and help us in our drive to diversify the economy.
My question is this. When will the government establish a major NRC presence in Alberta?


Mr. Speaker, I cannot give a definitive answer, but I can tell the member that the five-year plan for the National Research Council has been approved. The regional initiatives have all been approved in principle, and we are going to continue to develop the plans for these regional initiatives. When those plans are complete, we will then look for the appropriate funding.


Mr. Speaker, my question is directed to the Minister of Employment and Immigration.
Shared jurisdiction over manpower creates over-all duplication of programs and wanton waste of human and financial resources. This is why Quebec is asking for the repatriation of its powers. In the short term, however, that is between now and March 31, agreements between Quebec and the federal government will end.
Therefore I would ask the minister whether these agreements involving $433 million will be renewed on a temporary basis to avoid penalizing unemployed Quebeckers, particularly in Montreal which now has the highest unemployment rate in Canada?


Mr. Speaker, for quite some time now officials of both government levels have been discussing the terms of the agreement due to expire at the end of this month. But we have often said that the Canadian government does not negotiate on a piecemeal basis with the Province of Quebec, that is clear.


Mr. Speaker, I am not asking for total repatriation, I am asking for the renewal of the current $433 million agreements within the existing constitutional framework.
I want to know whether the minister intends to renew these agreements on a temporary basis, in fullest respect for the letter and spirit of existing agreements. That is a clear question.


Mr. Speaker, I think the minister gave the appropriate answer. We do not share the member's opinion concerning the dramatic outcome he envisages without first consulting all Canadians.
Indeed I am not the only one who thinks that way. In an article published in the March 15 Vancouver Sun the deputy leader of the Bloc Quebecois, Mr. Lapierre, is reported as saying, and I quote him because this is an interesting comment which the hon. member ought to read: "Well, as long as the political contract remains

March 20, 1991
Speaker's Ruling
unchanged, I am a Canadian", said the Bloc Quebecois House leader on Thursday, "I am still a Canadian, I still have my Canadian passport and, in the end, I will probably remain a Canadian".


Hear, hear.


Mr. Speaker, I have a question for the Minister of National Health and Welfare. On December 10 I asked the minister-I will wait until the House quiets down a minute.


Oh, oh.


The hon. member will please put his question.


On December 10 I asked the minister whether he would uphold the Canada Health Act in respect of deterrent user fees planned by the Government of Quebec for people using hospital emergency wards. At the time the minister said that he would ensure that the principles of the Canada Health Act would be fully respected and that he would communicate this to Quebec.
My question for the minister is this. Since the Quebec minister of health made it clear yesterday that he was proceeding with the introduction of deterrent user fees, can the minister tell the House if he did inform Quebec that these fees are a violation of the Canada Health Act and will he inform the House how he intends to enforce the Canada Health Act now?


Mr. Speaker, Quebec is well aware of the provisions of the Canada Health Act. As the hon. member knows, following the proposals made by Minister Cote in Quebec, the federal government got in touch with the Government of Quebec to request more information.
The minister in Quebec has indicated that he believes that what he is doing can be done within the confines of the Canada Health Act. The ball is in Quebec's court to demonstrate that it can be done.


The hon. member for Hamilton East on a single question.


Mr. Speaker, I would like to direct my single question to the Prime Minister. It is in response to the ridiculous answers that his Minister of Justice gave to the opposition's suggestion that 15-year old prostitutes should be given help to get off the street.
I would like to ask the Prime Minister to give us his view of whether in fact he supports the position of the Minister of Justice that there should be no federal assistance to help get street prostitutes off the street, or whether in fact he rejects the position tabled by his minister on the first-


Mr. Speaker, the question is: Do I support the position of the Minister of Justice, as described by the Leader of the Opposition? No.
Do I support the position of the Minister of Justice, as articulated by the Minister of Justice? Yes.
Apart from the sensitivity and knowledge that the Minister of Justice conveyed in her responses, she also conveyed an intention of the Government of Canada to work very carefully with the Government of British Columbia, other provincial governments, and the municipalities, to make certain that as a society, since it is an important societal problem, Canadians make progress to ensure that this problem is dealt with in an effective way.
That is what the Minister of Justice said. That is the policy of this government. And that is what we are going to do.


On Friday, March 8, 1991, the hon. member for Ontario rose on a point of order to object to the inclusion of items in the Supplementary and Main Estimates which would authorize the payment of $153 per diem allowance to senators. He argued that the authority to pay such an allowance should have been sought by means of an amendment to the Parliament of Canada Act. He quoted extensive authority to the effect
March 20,1991

Speaker's Ruling
that spending estimates cannot be used to amend legislation, and he invited the Chair to use its authority to rule the offending estimates out of order.

The hon. member for Kingston and the Islands spoke to the issue on March 11, 1991. He asked the Chair to take into account that the Estimates are recommended to the House by the Governor General but that this recommendation is secured on the advice of Ministers of the Crown.
