that Bill C-93, an act to implement certain government organization provisions of the budget tabled in the House of Commons on February 25, 1992, be read the third time and passed.


I have received notice of a question of privilege.


Madam Speaker, my question of privilege arises out of debate concerning Bill C-93.
During report stage debate, the government introduced some new figures. The debate very much hinged on the efficiency and cost savings to be achieved by bringing the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council and the external cultural program into the Canada Council.
We heard testimony from Treasury Board, the Privy Council as well as Finance in committee stating there were no savings. We tried as well to bring in the minister and the people from the Canada Council in order to allow us to verify whether there would be any savings and efficiencies. We were not allowed to do that. During the debate the government introduced a new set of figures, claiming some $5 million per year in savings will be achieved.
It is important as a member of Parliament that I know where these figures come from and that I have an opportunity to review them because they are important in determining what position we will take on this bill. It is also important to the academic community because, as would members on this side of the House, it would like to see greater efficiencies and cost savings. We would like to see that this is proven.
I believe my grounds for the question of privilege are that my ability to perform my duties as a member of Parliament have been infringed. As well, the authority and the dignity of Parliament and of all members have been offended by the action of the government. The action in question is the introduction of new and previously unavailable and arguably withheld evidence to the House. The lack of the evidence in question affects my judgment as a member and potentially the judgment of my party. In short I have a right to examine the evidence and to draw conclusions, a right I tried to exercise in the committee without success.


Madam Speaker, I am at a loss to understand the view of my friend from Regina on this matter.
During the committee hearings government witnesses indicated there would be a considerable saving in combining these agencies. Rather than two separate boards of directors of 21 each there would be one board of directors, reducing the total number of combined counsel from 43 to 21. That is an enormous saving.
Currently there are two administrative and support structures with personnel, financial information and the rest. The member was advised of all this in the committee hearing. All can examine the committee report. That has now been quantified at $5 million in years four and five of this program.
I do not understand the member for Regina-Qu'Appelle raising this as a question of privilege. It may be a matter of debate, whether he listened to the debate or

April 23, 1993
Government Orders
not. It certainly is not a question of privilege and I think that the claim ought to be dismissed out of hand.


Madam Speaker, I think an examination of the record of the committee hearings will show that documents obtained under freedom of information from Treasury Board showed zero savings. I assume that conceivably by bringing various boards together there are savings on one hand but there are also costs associated on the other. That is why I assumed Treasury Board came to the conclusion there would be zero savings in years one, two, three, four and five.
The savings figure of $5 million a year was never once mentioned in committee. The government now claims at this very late stage of the progress of the bill through various stages that there is going to be this type of saving. I suggest if that is the case, this bill go back to committee for further discussion.
As it stands now I feel my rights as a member of Parliament have been infringed on and I do have a question of privilege.


I do not think we have a prima facie case of privilege. In fact, we were moving, it seems quite rapidly-and I think the hon. member will agree-towards the debate that is about to start.
I did not have time, from the moment we received the notice that the hon. member would raise this question of privilege and the opening of the sitting, to go back to reading what had happened in committee.
On the other hand, I do believe that we will have time at this point to debate all these different points as we proceed with third reading. However, I must tell the hon. member that although he may have a grievance that is real, I do not think at this point that it is a prima facie case of privilege.
Nonetheless, I will ask the clerk and his officers to look into the matter and, if required, we will get back to the House with another ruling. For the time being, I do not think that this is an appropriate question of privilege.


Madam Speaker, on this point. Am I to understand from the comments you have just made that during the course of third reading debate you will interrupt if you determine after consultation that a different decision is appropriate and at that point in time we will deal with the matter? In any case, am I to understand that you will report back to the House prior to the completion of third reading of this particular bill?


As I have just said, I do not think at this time that there is a prima facie case of privilege.
Should our clerk through a study of whatever happened in committee advise me otherwise then of course we would come back to the House.
I must tell the hon. member at this time we do not see a question of prima facie privilege.


Madam Speaker, I understand and accept that. It becomes a moot point if this House has already triggered a vote on third reading of this particular bill and then a decision is made after that. Therefore my question is: Will you indicate before that point in time if as a result of your review there is any change in your decision?


If there should be a change in my decision I would definitely come back to the House before 2.45 p.m. when we have to vote. Otherwise there would be no reason for it, would there?


Madam Speaker, I welcome the opportunity to begin the debate at third reading of Bill C-93.
We on this side of the House have worked relentlessly to reduce the size and cost of the federal government. We have restrained federal spending, including public sector wages. We have implemented the Spending Control Act and the debt servicing and reduction account to ensure that fiscal responsibility is a matter of law. By privatizing over 20 Crown corporations we have reduced the public payroll by 50,000 employees. Nevertheless, we
April 23, 1993

realize, as do Canadians, that the task of streamlining the federal government and making it more efficient is not yet complete. Bill C-93 is a further step in that direction.
Bill C-93, the budget implementation bill, is the second of a series of omnibus bills designed to give effect to the government streamlining measures announced in the 1992 budget. The first one, Bill C-76, received royal assent on April 2, 1993 and a third one, Bill C-92, dealing with the Income Tax Act and other technical measures is proceeding to second reading in the other place.
The purpose of the Bill C-93 is to reduce government overhead and to provide services to Canadians more efficiently. The Bill includes the necessary amendments required to give full effect to the budget decisions affecting 14 organizations.
Contrary to the campaign which my friends opposite have waged with their filibuster of this bill in the House and with their allies through the media, this bill is not simply a "cuts" exercise, and its success will not be measured only in the calculation of dollars and cents over the short term.
As we are bound to repeat once again for the benefit of the opposition, there will be savings over the longer term as the size of government is reduced and overhead costs are diminished, and this is precisely what Canadian taxpayers wish to see.
More to the point, these changes are part of our broader commitment to smaller, simpler, more cost-effective government, able to provide Canadians with the programs and services they need in the challenging circumstances of the 1990s and at an acceptable cost of delivering them.
I want now to review some of the more contentious issues raised in earlier debate with respect to specific organizations addressed in Bill C-93.
The positive features of Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation or ECBC will be retained after the Corporation is merged with the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, commonly called ACOA. In particular, financial assistance will continue to be available for new and existing businesses that are likely to make a substantial contribution to industrial development and employment opportunities in Cape Breton Island outside of the coal
Government Orders
producing and steel industries. ACOS's new statutory powers will be restricted to Cape Breton Island and a portion of mainland Nova Scotia around the town of Mulgrave.
Dissolving the ECBC and carrying over its specific statutory powers to ACOA will eliminate a duplication in program delivery and the administrative overlap which that duplication entails. ACOA clients in Cape Breton will be the beneficiaries of increased efficiency in promotion, financial assistance and development of industry on the island.
During debate on this part of the bill on Tbesday, April 20, 1993, the member for Regina-Qu'Appelle made reference to estimates of the costs and savings to government from the merger of ECBC with ACOA. I refer to page 18151 of Hansard. Specifically he stated that the merger would cost the government $1 million over five years.
The $1 million cost figure referred to by the member for Regina-Qu'Appelle was an early estimate of costs which was made prior to the February 1992 Budget and prior to any specific knowledge of the parameters of the integration of ECBC into ACOA. That estimate assumed far greater job losses and severance costs than will actually be the case, since most of ECBC's employees will be transferred to ACOA.
It is now estimated that there will be no additional costs to government as a result of the merger. The corporation, like any responsible corporation, has set aside annual contributions for employee termination benefits. There are sufficient resources in this fund to pay all anticipated severance costs associated with the merger.
With respect to savings it is estimated that the annual savings to government from merging ECBC with ACOA will be at a minimum $250,000. Saving could reach up to $1 million annually on the successful divestiture of ECBC'S industrial park and farm operations.


I rise on a point of order, Madam Speaker.
I am sorry to interrupt the parliamentary secretary but again he is quoting figures that were not available in committee. I wonder if the hon. member would be willing to table those figures in the House so we can all see the source of his figures from which he claims to have these savings.

April 23, 1993
Government Orders


Madam Speaker, I was simply saying that the Enterprise Cape Breton Corporation had set aside some funds for severance pay. The costs associated with the merger or integration of the corporation and ACOA will be paid but out of the funds set aside for that particular purpose.
I take note of my hon. colleague's question and will see when I am through with my speech if I can provide these documents and confirmations to the House.
Questions were also raised in debate at report stage with respect to the future of ECBC's industrial park and farm operations. The member from Cape Breton-The Sydneys stated at page 18150 of Hansard that at present, ACOA has no provision to own land but ECBC does. He is correct. However, he neglected to inform the House that ECBC's power to acquire or hold land will be transfered to ACOA as part of the provisions of Part II of Bill C-93.
With respect to the future of the two properties identified by the member, the industrial park and demonstration farm, it is the government's objective to assist private-sector operators to take over these operations.
I trust these clarifications put to rest once and for all any residual anxiety about the nature of the programs for ECBC Cape Breton.
This is strictly a legislative initiative to streamline the administrative component of program delivery, simplify the access to information for the business community on the island and improve the quality of service to all Cape Bretoners.
Next I want to deal with what appears to be the most difficult aspect of the bill for my friends opposite to get their minds around, Part III-the integration of the Canada Council with the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council and the international relations programs.
In spite of efforts by members on this side of the House to set the record straight, the opposition speakers continue to characterize this section of the bill as an empty exercise motivated by fears of the government having to cave into right wing political pressure.
They are, of course, entitled to their opinions, but I am here again today to tell the House that this government will not be put off from finding reasonable and prudent ways to relieve the burden on the Canadian taxpayer whether the pressure is coming from the so-called right or from any other self-serving lobby.
This merger, once the transition has been completed, will result in increased efficiency in the delivery of programs and services. I am talking about grants to artists, promotion of the arts and the provision of scholarships in the social sciences and humanities and enhancing our capacity to project our national personality and the expression of our culture abroad.
The opposition continues to demand of us why are we proceeding with this merger. The answer remains straightforward and has not changed since they first posed the question at second reading: to improve program delivery and reduce overhead. Let me say one last word about the operation of the councils. It is important to recall, as my colleague from Winnipeg South told the House on Wednesday, the Canada Council worked well as one council for over 20 years.
Over time, the council developed a structure adapted to the two clienteles with the creation of an Academic Advisory Panel as a parallel to the Advisory Arts Panel, and the establishment of a separate administrative staff to deal with the academic community.
The differentiation of roles between the two was fully understood and accepted by the two bodies and their relationship was characterized by mutual respect.
It is also significant to note that in its appointments to the new council, the government of the day took the Canada Council as its model and gave the new body, the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, a predominantly lay composition and similar budgetary and expenditure practices.
The merger of the two councils in no way represents a lesser commitment to the academic community. The government is on record as saying that the interests of all its clients will be protected. Social research will in no way be compromised, as opposition members tried to say.
April 23, 1993

Government Orders
Both the Canada Council and SSHRC are granting	Councils and the international programs. One more
councils, both have well-established peer review struc-	time, once the transition is complete, ongoing savings of
tures. The distinct peer-review structures will remain in	approximately $5 million annually are expected from this
place after integration. However, as my friends opposite	measure, in all probability starting three years after the
conceded on several occasions in this debate-and again	integration, that is, in the fourth and fifth years,
as late as Wednesday afternoon at continuation of report	Hopefully, this is the end of the phoney "no savings"
stage-there is a need to streamline government to deal ' as painful as it may be for the opposition to abandon with the growing fiscal pressures on the public purse. xt-
Simply put, one more time, we no longer need and can no longer afford a separate council for each sector. This has no relationship to the level of appropriation for the grants and contributions which the three sectors receive or to the level of funding for the respective programs which they deliver. For more than 20 years, the Canada Council included both councils and operated very well. We know that this can be done again while protecting the interests of all three client groups-the arts, the social sciences and humanities and the international academic and cultural relations programs. Despite the protestations to the contrary of my friends opposite, the structure of Bill C-93 is clearly designed to reflect this intent.
Furthermore, the government never said that the Council would have only one vote for appropriation purposes. While the ministers of the Treasury Board will decide how many votes there will be, I can once again assure the House, and especially the opposition, that they have taken into account the wishes of the granting councils management and the views of the client organizations and will continue to do so.
I have been truly astonished at the tenacity of members opposite on the question of savings associated with the merger. They managed to get their hands on an outdated, pre-budget estimates draft and totally distorted its meaning. That may be understandable for people who are not familiar with the bureaucratic processes involved in our parliamentary routines for voting appropriations. I can even appreciate the political expediency involved in their behaviour which implies, "Look, don't bother me with the details. The answer you are going to give me is not one I want to hear, because it does not suit my line of argument."
What totally floors me is when the members opposite continue to cling to their story line in the face of clear statements telling them that there will be significant ongoing savings resulting from the integration of the
I would like to come back to that amount of $5 million which my colleague from Winnipeg South and I put forward here in the House. We clearly said, and I clearly said in my speech at report stage, that it would be inadvisable for the government to try to detail the savings and how they would be made, since the new Council, like any Crown corporation, must operate at arm's length from the government.
I was listening a few moments ago to the question of privilege raised by the hon. member and I would like to remind the Speaker that the Canada Council is an independent Crown corporation and that, on the issue of savings, it is up to the Council itself to determine how these savings will be realized. Therefore, we are not in a position to give further details at this moment, nor are we required to do so.
I would like to refer to a letter from Mrs. Paule Leduc, director and president of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, to my hon. colleague from Regina-Qu'Appelle, of which I received a copy. With unanimous consent, I am prepared to table this letter, which I will read to you.

Dear Mr. de Jong:
Following our telephone conversation this morning concerning future savings resulting from the merger of the SSHRC and the Canada Council, I think we can reasonably expect that ongoing savings in the order of $5 million annually could be achieved after four to five years of the existence of the new combined agency.
I also expect that savings will occur earlier in the process, probably as soon as year three, but at this stage I cannot give a definite amount.
It is premature for me now to identify in detail how those savings will be achieved, but we can already identify that integration of corporate and administrative services, the sharing of a single location, as well as some program rationalization will combine to reach a target of that magnitude.

April 23, 1993
Government Orders

That letter is signed "Mrs. Paule Leduc, director and president, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council". I could table the document with unanimous consent of the House.


Is there unanimous consent for the hon. member to table that letter?


Agreed.


Madam Speaker, I hope this confirmation by Mrs. Paule Leduc will dispel the doubts that the opposition is trying to cast on the savings this merger will bring.
As we said on Wednesday, it is normal that in the first few years of operation there are costs associated with the merger. Nevertheless, we expect, based on the preliminary judgement which the management of both councils has given us, that reduction in overhead will result from a streamlined program structure with three-year funding instead of annual grants, simpler and more flexible financial management, co-location under one roof, rationalized common services-by that I mean personnel, financial and information-and the return to one governing body, one council, instead of two.
I congratulate my friends opposite for the entertainment they have provided the House and the public with their misleading attacks on this merger. We have been patient and have tried to correct the record a number of times. Now-enough is enough. There are significant ongoing annual savings asssociated with the merger in part III of Bill C-93 over the long term.
We have told the members opposite the magnitude of those savings and when we expect to begin to realize them. That should be sufficient. I know it is more than sufficient for the taxpayers of Canada.
I have one final point on the specifics of the recent debate on this bill. I am referring to the point raised by the honourable member for Regina-Qu'Appelle on part VIII of the bill and the debate on Motion No. 67 on Wednesday.
Although, this is a highly technical area of intellectual property litigation, I think that in his remarks on cost recovery, the member has confused user fees, passthrough costs and awarding of costs for frivolous proceedings. That would appear to be the case with his statements in Hansard on pages 18260 and 18261.
He argued that SOCAN will have to absorb the cost of frivolous proceedings brought against them. This is not the case. I refer the honourable member to page 80 of the Bill. Section 12 of the new Intellectual Property Tribunal Act clearly provides the Tribunal with the discretionary power to award costs against nuisance proceedings of this sort.
Therefore, I believe that SOCAN's fears in this regard are unfounded.
Moreover, Madam Speaker, you will allow me to point something out with reference to a remark the hon. member for Regina-Qu'Appelle made about me as recorded in Hansard of April 21, 1993, page 18260 and I quote:
Mr. Speaker, I really tried to follow what the parliamentary secretary was saying but I am afraid I am going to have to wait until I read Hansard tomorrow. I think what the parliamentary secretary was doing was just reading out what bureaucrats had told him to read out.
It is a technical amendment. There are technicalities in it.
The hon. member for Regina-Qu'Appelle went to
say:
I am not quite certain the parliamentary secretary totally understood what he was saying but I suspect what was happening is that he was given something to read by some bureaucrats. It sure sounded bureaucratic to me.
I regret the hon. member had difficulty understanding properly what I was saying. He said that I was referring to notes prepared by bureaucrats and he is right because I was indeed referring to notes prepared by public servants and by my staff; these notes are only aimed at giving good, detailed explanations to the hon. member because of our concern, as a government, to explain properly the positions and decisions we take, and I regret the hon. member had difficulty understanding. Hopefully he would have read Hansard, but I must assure him I never read here a text or refer to notes without fully understanding their meaning.
April 23, 1993

I will come back with some explanations in a language which, hopefully, will be better understood by the hon. member for Regina-Qu'Appelle.
The thing is very simple. The government has a user pay policy. Take passports, for example. There was a time when even passports were subsidized, that is to say that the fees charged to the user were less than the production costs. Then the government came up with a policy to apply the user fee principle. The same principle applies to the Intellectual Property Tribunal.
And in that instance, we are only saying that SOCAN and other users will have to bear the operating costs of the Intellectual Property Tribunal.
Second, this particular amendment which would have added the word "user" or "consumer" could have been interpreted in such a way as to impose a tremendous administrative burden on the Intellectual Property Tribunal which, by law, would have had to take upon itself the tremendous burden of billing for its services.
I believe that SOCAN, which represents around
35,000	members, should bear the costs connected with using the Intellectual Property Tribunal and then charge its members. That way, the Intellectual Property Tribunal does not have to be laden with such a burden.
I believe I have now dealt with the main concerns which the opposition has raised with respect to Bill C-93. I also think it is important to remember that there are seven other parts to this bill and that they have drawn very little attention during our proceedings. In fact, there are sections of the bill with which the opposition have expressed their support, like the winding up of the Veterans land administration and its integration into the Department of Veterans Affairs.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks, Bill C-93 is in line with the government policy, with the economic statement and with the 1992 budget aimed at providing Canadians with better services for less, at streamlining administrative costs and in the end at alleviating the tax burden of the people.
Ever since 1984, every bill presented with that intent, namely to slash government spending, to reduce the machinery of government and therefore administrative costs, everyone of those bills was systematically opposed
Government Orders
by the Liberals and the New Democrats and now by the Bloc Quebecois.
We introduced bills on privatization. The Liberals voted against the privatization of Nordion and Tethra-tonics, Bill C-13, second session. On third reading, they opposed the sale of government shares in Telesat Canada proposed in Bill C-38. They did not support the privatization of Petro Canada, Bill C-84, second session. The Liberals voted against the act respecting the control of government expenditures which was meant to cap government spending, Bill C-56, third session. They opposed Bill C-26, third session, a legislation to improve the efficiency and accountability of the public service. That bill also includes other measures that would create better employment opportunities for women, natives, handicapped persons and visible minorities. They voted against.
The Liberals did not endorse the amendments to the Patent Act which will promote pharmaceutical research and development, Bill C-91, third session. They voted against some substantial amendments to the Bankruptcy Act, Bill C-22, third session. Finally, if we look at the legislative package put forward by this government to streamline expenditures, which is the wish of the Canadian people, I think it is clear they systematically voted against it each and every time.
This is not surprising. When a party like the Liberal Party is in power for so many years and when we see that over a period of 12 years the deficit grew from $1.8 billion in 1969-1970 to $38.5 billion in 1984-1985, with an accumulated debt of $200 billion, it is not surprising.


The hon. member for Ottawa-Vanier rises on a point of order.


Madam Speaker, I have been listening very carefully to the hon. member's speech on Bill C-93 at third reading and I have to ask myself the following question: does the rule of relevancy require that we pay special attention to the bill not under consideration?
Until the hon. member launched an attack against the Liberal Party, I thought he was only being a bit partisan. However I would like the member to concentrate on the subject matter of Bill C-93 and explain to us how the government will sell that bill, which is bad for Canada, to the people it will affect.

April 23, 1993
Government Orders


Madam Speaker, I think the House has always had some leeway with regard to arguments behind our government policies in every debate which takes place in the House. I have been here since the beginning of the week to debate this bill and I have listened to speeches from my colleague's friends as well as from other hon. members which were far from relevant to this debate. As far as I am concerned I think I have kept my remarks well within the scope of the debate on Bill C-93.
What I am trying to explain is the filibustering the liberal opposition has been doing on Bill C-93. What I am trying to show here is that every bill like Bill C-93 has systematically been opposed to by the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party.
What I was trying to say before I was interrupted by my colleague was that it was not surprising to see constant opposition against bills which are aimed at reducing spending while, in 12 years, the Liberal government kept increasing expenditures at the rate of 14 per cent. I was referring to an example which is really rather interesting. In 1974-75, Mr. Jean Chretien stated on page 7138 of Hansard of July 2, 1975 the following: "We have decided that restraint is necessary. In order to exercise restraint we had to cut back on planned expenditures". That year, expenditures went up by 28 per cent.
Systematic opposition by the Liberals to Bill C-93 is part of a tradition that has lasted for more than 25 years, and I can understand that.
In conclusion, I want to state once more the importance, for the Canadian people, that governments do everything that is needed and take fair measures to reduce government spending, streamline administrative costs and increase the efficiency of services for the Canadian people.
As I said, a recent survey in Terrebonne clearly indicated that this is the way we should go. Throughout this country, Canadians who work 40 hours a week or more and strive to make ends meet tell us that the tax burden is unbearable. They are fed up with taxes and they are sick and tired because we do not make appropriate decisions to streamline our costs and expenses and save money whenever it is possible.
We should never forget that public funds do not come from another planet, or from the opposition members' pockets but from all Canadian taxpayers. I think there is a constant lack of good faith on the part of the opposition. If only the opposition had supported the government in its spending cuts, even once, if the Liberal and NDP opposition had only once made suggestions about spending cuts. Instead, for nine years now-you have been here all that time, Madam Speaker, you know what has been going on-all we have seen in this place is filibustering without any consideration for the Canadian taxpayers' ability to pay.
Bill C-93 is in keeping with the approach set out in the 1992 budget where we announced that 40 organizations would be eliminated as the services delivered by these organizations are already provided by the private sector and that others would be consolidated. Tliis Bill C-93 responds to the 1992 budget. It will rationalize the delivery of several services to Canadians, contribute to more efficient government and reduce the burden of government on Canadians. That is something that we all want in this House and that all Canadians want as well.
Therefore, I urge all members of this House, on either side, to pass this bill so that it can be sent quickly to the other place and that we can finally achieve these savings.


There will not be any questions or comments during third reading. Before we continue I would like to direct this comment to the hon. member for Regina-Qu'Appelle.
Our Clerk has looked at Hansard from the committees. We have come to the conclusion that there might be divergences of opinion and there might be points for debate, but on the point brought to my attention this morning by the hon. member there is no question of privilege.
[Translation\


Madam Speaker, like my colleagues, I recognize that you are a very fair person. You will no doubt note that our friend opposite has delivered a political speech which was not bad but he failed to provide rational arguments in support of the bill before us today.
April 23, 1993

For one thing, he mentioned that the Liberals opposed the bills his government introduced in this House. Liberals always oppose bills that do not take the people into consideration.
This is the kind of bill that the Tories have introduced. They talk about cutting expenses. They are very concerned and talk about it often. It is very easy to cut expenses on the backs of others. That is what this government has done. The hon. member referred to misleading attacks. It is the government which is being misleading and I can prove it. He quoted a letter from Paule Leduc, a very honest letter where she says it might be possible to save a few dollars in the not too distant future.

He did not admit that particular saving could have been achieved if the government had simply asked these organizations to reach a particular precise budgetary target. It is not as a result of what the government is doing. It is because these organizations will be forced to reach targets, and my hon. colleagues know that full well.
They know full well that this will go down in the annals of history and the annals of government as the silliest, the flimsiest, the most superficial bill that has probably ever come forward. It has been a botched job right from the very beginning. The government is trying to put some glitz to it, a bit of shine. There is no glitz; there is no shine. It is a deceptive and destructive bill. It is one that will haunt this government.
Let me make one point very clear. No one in government is opposed to streamlining if it is going to save money, if it is going to bring about increased efficiency and effectiveness. However there are no savings here. There is no increased effectiveness or efficiency. There are no studies to show it. When we questioned the witnesses from Treasury Board and the Privy Council, and I shall share the quotes shortly, they had nothing, no studies. They admitted they had nothing. They were honest men and women, and I appreciate their honesty. They might have chosen to do something else but they chose to tell the truth and by telling the truth they have exposed this government's project.
Government Orders
Just so that people are very aware of what is happening here, let us look at what is going on. The government has decided to streamline, initially it said to save money. Then when it was found out that was not true in reality, what did it do? It started to go for increased effectiveness and efficiency. When that did not come forth then it tried to pretend that we in the opposition were being unfair.
Let us remember that what the government is doing is in fact trying to kill organizations that in some cases were already dead. It is removing organizations that have been dormant for years. Worst of all, dynamic and vibrant organizations were taken out completely because the Economic Council of Canada could not stand the heat. The government could not take that kind of criticism. One of the worst decisions it made was the merger of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada with the Canada Council.
Let us remember this bill is wide ranging. It talks about the Agricultural Products Board. It talks about the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency. It talks about the Canada Council for the arts and for research, the social sciences and humanities. It talks about the independent review commission for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Intellectual Property Tribunal. It also addresses the Canadian Commercial Corporation and Emergency Preparedness Canada. It talks about the International Trade and Procurement Tribunal, the Petroleum Monitoring Agency and the Veterans' Land Administration Act. It is a wide-ranging bill. The government has failed, absolutely and totally failed to make its case.
Because of its vastness and because it is complex the government has tried to suggest to Canadians that there were savings, that this was a good move and that this would be more effective. We know it is not true. We know what this bill is all about. It is about killing those agencies that are dead, removing and killing those that are dormant, and sapping the strength out of those that are vital and dynamic because they were a threat to government.
This bill is about trying to reach the Reform Party agenda. They are kissing cousins and I shall have more to say about that.

April 23, 1993


The hon. member will be able to pursue his remarks after Question Period and Routine Proceedings.
The House will now proceed to members' statements pursuant to Standing Order 31.


Madam Speaker, I rise to outline again the difficult economic circumstances in my riding due to the adverse effects of the free trade agreement, cross-border shopping and, most significant, the huge lay-offs in major industries such as GM.
My constituents are very disillusioned with the empty promises of this government and are looking for help at this time in connection with a local project known as the Peter Street bridge in Thorold. The Peter Street bridge is a vital link in Thorold and is now under threat of closing due to extensive repairs which are required to ensure its safe use by not only my constituents but the thousands of tourists who use it every year.
I urge the government, mainly the St. Lawrence Seaway Authority which has jurisdiction over the bridge, to extend its financial assistance to my riding and fully support the initiatives of the mayor and members of the city council of Thorold in their attempt to provide their city not only with a viable link but especially-


The hon. member's time has expired.


Madam Speaker, National Volunteer Week, this year from April 18 to April 23, is a special opportunity for us to pay tribute and give recognition to all those individuals who volunteer their services in their local community.
Today I would like to join these communities in paying a special tribute to the contribution made by volunteers to community life.
To our volunteers I want to say thank you for your dedication and commitment. What you have accomplished deserves the respect and admiration of us all.
I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate a young lady from my riding, Annie Galipeau, a resident of Messines, who won an award in the Dramatic Arts category at the YTV Gala held last night at the National Arts Centre in Ottawa.
Congratulations, Annie, and good luck.


Madam Speaker, clam fishermen on the Bay of Fundy shore near Five Islands are very concerned about the clam resources and want the establishment of a season to ensure a sustainable and viable fishery. The fisheries committee of the West Colchester Development Association has recommended that a season from approximately May 15 to October 31 be established in order to prevent overdigging and allow for the replenishment of clam stocks.
This committee is made up of residents in the area who are involved in the clam fishery and are very knowledgeable about the resource and the conditions. I support this committee in its efforts to protect the resource and will be urging the minister and the Department of Fisheries and Oceans to accept this sensible recommendation at a meeting in the area to be arranged in the very near future.


Madam Speaker, yesterday evening hundreds of thousands of Canadians were impressed and entertained as they watched the live broadcast on the YTV network of the fourth annual YTV achievement awards. These awards to young people 19 years of age and under demonstrate the talent, creativity, innovation, community service and courage of young Canadians. The winners exemplify the best of our country and convey a much needed message of optimism and hope for the future.
April 23, 1993

I would like to congratulate all the winners, but in particular I want to congratulate Tamia Washington of Windsor, Ontario who received the national vocal award. To Tamia and all the winners I say on behalf of all Canadians and myself: Congratulations, we are very proud of you. Felicitations et bonne chance a tous.


Madam Speaker, any time that I have risen in this House the words I have spoken have been my own. However, pursuant to an agreement that some of us entered into yesterday the following words were suggested to me by an outstanding group of young people who are employed by this House.
Last night in the spirit of friendliness and healthy competition members from both sides of the House joined together to face the pages in an invigorating game of the great Canadian sport of hockey. While it was a delightful experience for everyone, the pages once again proved their worth by tearing apart the MP squad as though we were a group of amateur bowlers. Their complete domination of the game left us cold and left the ice melting. These fine young people should be thanked, not only for the enjoyable evening but also for not rubbing it in our faces.


Madam Speaker, Winnipeg residents are anxious to hear confirmation of the federal government's support of a third core area initiative. Both the provincial and city governments have already indicated their desire to participate in the third phase of this very successful program.
The two preceding core area initiatives have greatly benefited the larger community of Winnipeg by enhancing social and community services downtown and by encouraging job creation, work experience and training as well as the growth of small business. However there
remains the need for new programs and development in the city.
Government cutbacks, high unemployment and the recession have had a devastating effect on the economy of Winnipeg. The demands on service organizations have increased dramatically while funding continues to shrink.
The people of Winnipeg are eager to haul themselves out of this recession but they need a commitment and some encouragement from the Conservative government, and they need it immediately.
Repeated efforts to get an answer from the minister responsible have so far proved unsuccessful. I call on that minister to answer and answer positively, and to invest in the future of Winnipeg and not allow it to continue to deteriorate safe in the knowledge that the Conservatives will not be around after the next election.


Madam Speaker, when 976 service was first proposed the Bell Telephone Company opposed its introduction but the CRTC forced it to carry 976 service and at the same time created a situation in which anyone who objected to 976 service would have to pay a $4 a month service charge to have the service blocked.
Now postcards with gorgeous pictures of escorts encourage people to phone a 976 number. All sorts of people are facing a big surprise when their telephone bill carries a $10 or $15 charge for a sex service call.
It is clearly time for the CRTC to eliminate 976 service from the services offered. This service is not needed and it is clearly being abused.


Madam Speaker, the fishing season is almost upon us and most of the wharfs in my riding of Egmont, P.E.I., are still in such a state of disrepair that the safety of the fishermen using them is in jeopardy.

April 23, 1993
I and fishermen's associations have brought this situation to the attention of the Minister of Fisheries and Oceans on many occasions. The only responses so far have been a few band-aids supplied here and there, leaving us now with wharfs that have deteriorated to the point where it will cost millions to restore them to safe operational conditions.
I ask the minister to get personally involved. We now have a situation in which defeated provincial candidates, a Public Works employee and an unelected member from the other place are making announcements to the media on the minister's behalf, and we do not know if those announcements are true or not.
Fishermen need to know who is in charge and what is going on. They want to know what is going on in other Egmont harbours that need repairs.
While spending large amounts of money after eight years of neglect may seem like a cynical vote buying gesture, I would advise the minister to set that concern aside and do the repair work so that the fishermen in P.E.I. can work from harbours that are functional and safe.


Madam Speaker, today the federal government has announced its renewed investment in one of our country's most significant industries, the fur trade.
The Department of Indian Affairs and Northern Development and the Department of the Environment have committed $12 million over the next five fiscal years to assist the Canadian fur trade to adjust to changing market realities and respond to the advancement of the management and humane trapping of fur.
Thanks must go out to individual trappers across the land, the trappers' organizations and the Fur Institute of Canada for their representations to the government. Thanks must also go out to the ministers of environment, international trade and DIAND who ensured that the support was secured for another five years.
Our Canadian government is proud of the fur industry. We are proud that Canada will continue to be leaders in the development of humane trapping and ranching methods and will continue to be leaders in the exporting of a beautiful quality fur product.


Madam Speaker, this morning the media reported that three members of the Armed Forces under investigation for the March 16 beating death of a Somali man have been released from all forms of custody but the release is not an indication of whether or not charges will be laid.
A fourth soldier continues to lie in hospital in critical condition as a result of circumstances that may be connected to the March 16 incident.
I and members of that young soldier's family join with other concerned Canadians in wanting to know the truth about what is happening in Somalia.
I therefore repeat the call to the Minister of National Defence made by my colleague from Victoria for an independent public inquiry into this and earlier incidents which are now coming to light. My constituents and I want to know what is happening within the military command in Somalia and why information which the minister admitted to having about these incidents has been deliberately suppressed.
I would ask the Minister of National Defence to respect the wishes of the family involved and immediately establish the public inquiry.


Madam Speaker, Rosser is a municipality and town west of Winnipeg which I represent and live in. It is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year.
This area of Manitoba with its rich farm land has become home to many pioneer families and immigrants, such as my parents and many others.
The historic development of Rosser is fascinating as well as intriguing. General Thomas Lafayette Rosser was a classmate at West Point with the famous General Armstrong Custer. They fought opposite one another in the U.S. civil war, yet later renewed their friendship. About seven years before General Rosser surveyed the CPR line from Winnipeg to Saskatchewan as chief engineer he was preparing to lead a volunteer force to rescue General Custer at the Little Big Horn, but he was too late.
April 23, 1993

I am sure all Canadians are grateful to this great, colourful American general for his contribution to the early development of Manitoba.
I also would like to congratulate Reeve Allan Bea-chell, his council, and many volunteers for making the 100th anniversary of Rosser a lasting and memorable success.


Madam Speaker, April 17 was an important day for Ottawa.
Last Saturday marked the return to Ottawa of professional baseball as the Ottawa Lynx took the field in the International Baseball League. The first pitch was the culmination of years of effort by Howard Darwin, a dedicated entrepreneur and sportsman whose leadership and commitment to his community have benefited the people of Ottawa for many years and in many ways.
My 10-year old son and I were in the stands for that first pitch, a strike by the way. While the weather was cold and wet and the Lynx came up one run short we had a great evening, and without a doubt the fans loved every moment.
With inexpensive ticket prices Howard Darwin has brought families of this region a great activity to share. It is an opportunity to eat popcorn, hope for a foul ball and, most of all, build memories together.
Ottawa city council deserves credit for undertaking the building of a wonderful facility for our new team. The stadium does not yet have a name but surely nothing could be more appropriate than Howard Darwin Stadium in recognition of an individual who successfully pursued his dream for his community.


Madam Speaker, the campaign for the leadership of the Conservative Party has given us another prime example of what
is lacking in the media sector. Large sections of the French-speaking population in Quebec and Canada were unable to watch the broadcast of this event in French. For instance, Wednesday's debate was not carried in the Saguenay-Lac-Saint-Jean area.
What amazes me is when I hear some people say we do not need this kind of service and that we would be better off improving CBC programming.
Do they not realize we will soon be invaded by 300 American channels? Are they awar