Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to table, in both official languages, a number of order in council appointments which were recently made by the government.
Pursuant to the provisions of Standing Order 110(1), these are deemed referred to the appropriate standing committees, a list of which is attached.
Mr. Speaker, pursuant to Standing Order 36(8), I have the honour to table, in both official languages, the government's response to three petitions.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to present a petition on behalf of the citizens of the greater Peterborough area who are concerned about drinking and driving. The petitioners point out that an average of 4.5 Canadians are killed and 125 Canadians seriously injured every day as a result of alcohol related vehicular crashes.
The petitioners pray that parliament immediately amend the Criminal Code to streamline the judicial process and to provide sanctions that better reflect the seriousness of the crime and to commit to formal reviews of impaired driving legislation to determine the efficacy of the law in reducing drinking and driving and the deaths, injuries and social costs that it generates.
Mr. Speaker, I have three petitions from various areas. The first petition is from the Toronto-Mississauga area. The second petition is primarily from Lethbridge, Alberta. The third petition is from Scarborough and other areas, including Calgary. All of the petitions deal with Bill C-225, an act to amend the Marriage Act (Prohibited Degrees) and the Interpretation Act so as to define in statute that a marriage can only be entered into between a single male and a single female.
The petitioners pray that parliament adopt this law.
Mr. Speaker, I have a petition signed by my constituents of Stoney Creek who call upon parliament to ask the Department of Citizenship and Immigration to review existing income requirements so that potential sponsors will not be unduly burdened by them. The petitioners request that more than one person be allowed to sponsor the same individual and share the responsibility for financial support of the immigrant.
Mr. Speaker, Question No. 215 will be answered today. .[Text]
Question No. 215—
For the fiscal year ending March 31, 1998, what is the breakdown by line item and business line of all expenditures comprised in the amount of $6.5 million under vote 10 in the Natural Resources Canada's performance report “Promoting Canada's International Interests” for all categories, which would include any estimates of travel, operating and capital expenses, grants and contributions, salaries or benefits?
Mr. Speaker, I ask that the remaining questions be allowed to stand.
Is that agreed?
Agreed.
The House proceeded to the consideration of Bill C-78, an act to establish the Public Sector Pension Investment Board, to amend the Public Service Superannuation Act, the Canadian Forces Superannuation Act, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Superannuation Act, the Defence Services Pension Continuation Act, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Pension Continuation Act, the Members of Parliament Retiring Allowances Act and the Canada Post Corporation Act and to make a consequential amendment to another act, as reported (with amendments) from the committee.
There are 54 motions in amendment in the Notice Paper concerning the report stage of Bill C-78.
The motions will be grouped for debate as follows.
Group No. 1, Motions Nos. 1 to 14, 31, 32, 40 and 48.
Group No. 2, Motions Nos. 15, 17 to 30.
Group No. 3, Motions Nos. 16, 38, 39, 46, 47 and 54.
Group No. 4, Motions Nos. 33 to 37, 41 to 45, 49 to 53.
The voting patterns for the motions within each group are available at the table. The Chair will remind the House of each pattern at the time of voting.
I will now put Motions Nos. 1 to 14, 31, 32, 40 and 48 to the House.
moved:
Motion No. 1
That Bill C-78, in Clause 5, be amended by replacing lines 9 to 13 on page 4 with the following:
“(4) Where the Minister proposes to make changes to pension plan design or funding with respect to a pension plan created under an Act referred to in paragraph 4(1)(a), the Minister shall consult the Pension Management Board established by the Act that created the plan.
moved:
Motion No. 2
That Bill C-78, in Clause 7, be amended by replacing line 17 on page 5 with the following:
“and ethical investment policies, standards and proce-”
Motion No. 3
That Bill C-78, in Clause 7, be amended by replacing line 18 on page 5 with the following:
“dures for each fund that the Board manages with specific instructions that the fund shall not invest in any industry that is or may be associated with
(i) pollution or environmental degradation,
(ii) labour standards and practices which are inferior to those required by law in this country,
(iii) any practice or activity that may result in the elimination or contracting-out of the jobs of members of the plan, or
(iv) any aspect of the sale, manufacture, or promotion of tobacco or tobacco products.”
moved:
Motion No. 4
That Bill C-78, in Clause 7, be amended by adding after line 18 on page 5 the following:
“(a.1) establish contact with the actuary or actuaries of each fund that the Board manages and maintain that contact on an on- going basis;”
moved:
Motion No. 5
That Bill C-78, in Clause 10, be amended by replacing lines 20 and 21 on page 7 with the following:
“dations from Board established by subsection 41(1) of the Public Service”
Motion No. 6
That Bill C-78, in Clause 10, be amended by replacing lines 20 and 21 on page 7 with the following:
“received recommendations from the Board established by subsection 49.1(1)”
Motion No. 7
That Bill C-78, in Clause 10, be amended by replacing lines 26 and 27 on page 7 with the following:
“received recommendations from the Board established by subsection 25.1(1)”
moved:
Motion No. 8
That Bill C-78, in Clause 10, be amended by adding after line 29 on page 7 the following:
“(1.1) A copy of the appointment of a chairperson by the Minister under paragraph (1)(a) shall be laid before each House of Parliament on any of the next 15 days during which that House is sitting.”
moved:
Motion No. 9
That Bill C-78 be amended by adding after line 9 on page 15 the following new clause:
“27.1 The Auditor General of Canada shall be the primary auditor of the Public Sector Pension Investment Board.”
Motion No. 10
That Bill C-78, in Clause 28, be amended by replacing line 10 on page 15 with the following:
“28. The audit committee shall be responsible for presenting all records of all financial activity of the Public Sector Pension Investment Board to the Auditor General on an annual basis. In addition, the audit committee shall”
moved:
Motion No. 11
That Bill C-78, in Clause 31, be amended by adding after line 25 on page 16 the following:
“(a.1) establish contact with the actuary or actuaries of each fund that the Board manages and maintain that contact on an on- going basis;”
moved:
Motion No. 12
That Bill C-78, in Clause 32, be amended by replacing line 3 on page 17 with the following:
“subsidiaries shall adhere to, ethical investment poli-”
Motion No. 13
That Bill C-78, in Clause 36, be amended by replacing line 2 on page 19 with the following:
“auditor's report to be prepared and presented to the Auditor General of Canada, in respect of”
moved:
Motion No. 14
That Bill C-78, in Clause 49, be amended by replacing lines 30 to 34 on page 26 with the following:
“the members of the three Boards established respectively under subsection 49.1(1) of the Canadian Forces Superannuation Act, subsection 41(1) of the Public Service Superannuation Act and subsection 25.1(1) of the Royal”
moved:
Motion No. 31
That Bill C-78, in Clause 90, be amended
(a) by replacing lines 1 to 16 on page 69 with the following:
“41. (1) There is established a Board to be known as the Public Service Pension Management Board.
(2) Despite any other provision in this Act, the Board established by subsection (1) shall be responsible for designing the pension plan to which this Act applies, its funding, managing the plan's surplus or deficit, administering the plan and ensuring that the plan's funding level is adequate to deliver pension benefits.”
(b) by replacing line 17 on page 69 with the following:
“(3) The membership of the Board established by subsection (1) shall”
(c) by replacing line 36 on page 69 with the following:
“(5) The Board established by subsection (1) shall recom-”
moved:
Motion No. 32
That Bill C-78, in Clause 90, be amended by adding after line 31 on page 69 the following:
“(3.1) a copy of every appointment made by the Governor in Council in accordance with paragraph (3)(a) or (c) shall be laid before each House of Parliament on any of the next 15 days during which that House is sitting.”
moved:
Motion No. 40
That Bill C-78, in Clause 145, be amended
(a) by replacing lines 38 to 45 on page 123 and lines 1 to 8 on page 124 with the following:
“49.1 (1) The Minister shall establish a Board to be known as the Canadian Forces Pension Management Board, the members of which are appointed by the Minister in accordance with subsection (2).
(1.1) Despite any other provision in this Act, the Board established by subsection (1) shall be responsible for designing the pension plan to which this Act applies, its funding, managing the plan's surplus or deficit, administering the plan and ensuring that the plan's funding level is adequate to deliver pension benefits.”
(b) by replacing line 9 on page 124 with the following:
“(2) The membership of the Board established by subsection (1) shall”
(c) by replacing, in the English version, line 43 on page 124 with the following:
“(3) A member of the Board established by subsection (1) shall be”
(d) by replacing line 1 on page 125 with the following:
“(3.1) The Board established by subsection (1) shall recom-”
moved:
Motion No. 48
That Bill C-78, in Clause 192, be amended
(a) by replacing lines 23 to 38 on page 173 with the following:
“25.1 (1) The Minister shall establish a Board to be known as the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Pension Management Board, the members of which are appointed by the Minister in accordance with subsection (2).
(1.1) The Board established by subsection (1) shall be responsible for designing the pension plan to which this Act applies, its funding, managing the plan's surplus or deficit, administering the plan and ensuring the plan's funding level is adequate to deliver pension benefits'.”
(b) by replacing line 39 on page 173 with the following:
“(2) The membership of the Board established by subsection (1) shall”
(c) by replacing, in the English version, line 14 on page 174 with the following:
“(3) A member of the Board established by subsection (1) shall be”
(d) by replacing line 19 on page 174 with the following:
“(3.1) The Board established by subsection (1) shall recom-”
Mr. Speaker, I am glad to be able to spend a little time debating Bill C-78 and I have to emphasize a little time.
The bill was introduced at first reading in the House on Thursday, April 22. The following week, on April 27, it came up for second reading and the government immediately introduced closure. Before we knew it, second reading was over and done with, out of the House and off to committee before we had any time to debate the bill in detail.
Last week the bill was in committee. We had witnesses on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. By Thursday morning, the bill was in committee for clause by clause. This happens to be a 200-page bill, 200 pages of complex technical points. It deals with $100 billion. It is the livelihood of the retirees of the civil service. It is a bill that calls for the privatization of $100 billion of government debt over a number of years.
One would have thought that the bill would have merited some serious attention by members of parliament even if only for the fact that the pension of members of parliament happens to be part of the bill.
Last week we had witnesses on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and that was all the government members were prepared to allow to come before the committee. Although I suggested other organizations and people who would have an interest in speaking to the bill, the government said that it did not want to hear about it, that it wanted to get on with it.
Last Thursday morning, the bill was in committee for clause by clause. I have not added up how many clauses there are in a 200-page bill because they were not consecutively numbered and there were a large number of amendments. However, suffice it to say there were several hundred clauses and we were there to deal with clause by clause. If I had not been in committee last week, the committee would have dealt with all 200 pages of clauses in 10 minutes or even less if it had the opportunity.
I tried to have debate in committee but, while I could raise the issues I wanted to, I was severely limited in my capacity to debate the issue because of the constraints imposed upon me by the committee.
I raise it in debate this morning because they told me I could appeal to the Speaker of the House if I was not satisfied. However, members know very well that any time an incident in committee is appealed to the House, the Speaker rules that the committees are the masters of their own house and thus we cannot appeal to the Speaker.
Before I get into talking about the motions this morning, I would like to put on the record that I put up a valiant attempt to have the whole bill debated in detail in committee rather than consuming a huge amount of time in the House by people who are not interested in the particular bill. There are some members who do have a serious interest in the bill and I happen to be one of them. If we could have dealt with that in committee it would have saved the boredom for those in the House who are not interested in it.
I understand it is not improbable that now that it is back in the House the government may decide that it does not want to talk about the bill for very long and debate may be closed off once more. We will have to wait to see how events unfold, but I would not be surprised if the government feels that another two or three hours of debate on this 200-page bill, $100 billion in assets and directly affecting 700,000 Canadians, requires no significant debate in the House at all.
I have the transcript from the committee meeting. I will read just a couple of things in order to give the House an indication of what actually went on in committee. On page 13 of the transcript I said:
There is no limit on my time, Mr. Chairman, I'm not aware. Can you tell me where I'm limited on my time?
This was when it was severely curtailing what I felt was my privilege to speak in committee. The chairman replied:
It certainly is at the discretion of the chair to allow a reasonable amount of time for debate and discussion of clauses. And when at such time the question is called, and I will seek some degree of leniency from my colleagues to call a question, after an appropriate amount time, at which time I'll use my best judgment to wind up the questions and call the question.
I might have been talking at that time about 20 or 30 clauses that had been lumped into one debate and I was limited to two minutes. How could I intelligently talk about that amount of clauses in two minutes and do it justice, do my constituents justice and do justice for the people who are concerned about the bill. It was an absolute impossibility.
I will now refer to some comments by the member for Humber—St. Barbe—Baie Verte in Newfoundland. As he was interrupting my speech, he said:
It appears that we're getting into very...discussion here about...we have a very specific task at hand. It's to pass this bill, with or without amendments.
I thought we were there to discuss the bill not to pass the bill. That was definitely the attitude of my colleagues on the government side because later on, on the same page, I am quoted as saying:
...Mr. Chairman, and you're again denying the right to speak to individual issues because of members calling the question.
As soon as any member of the government called the question, meaning calling for the vote, it meant the end of debate. As soon as I started to speak someone would call for the question and that was the end of the debate in committee. It was an affront to the democratic process in the House. No one was prepared to enter into serious debate or analysis, or checking the bill to see that it was appropriate.
I will mention another comment that I made in committee. I said:
Mr. Chairman, you know, they're rather testy around the table this morning, and I would have thought that since there was very little time to debate in the House we would have had more opportunity to debate in committee.
On it went. They shut me down at every opportunity. There is page after page of attempts by me to raise specific issues on the bill, to debate amendments I had tabled regarding the bill, and to improve the governance of $100 billion of assets.
I recommended at one time that the auditor general be the auditor who would be required to do the special audits which the bill calls for because he has expertise in that area. He has perhaps the best expertise and is the most qualified person in the country.
I would have thought for a $100 billion pool of capital that we would have wanted the best in the country to do the special evaluations and assessments. Unfortunately there was no opportunity. Government members were not the slightest bit interested in hearing, debating, discussing or suggesting any improvements to the bill whatsoever.
Three minute changes were proposed by the government. I think one word was changed. The word “and” was deleted and the word “or” was inserted, or vice versa.
Government members recognized at second reading of the bill that they had made some mistakes in drafting it. They were not interested in talking about substantive change. They were not even talking about analysing for minute change. They strictly wanted to pass the bill, and if there were mistakes in the complexity they would fix it up later on, a travesty that I wanted on the record.
Mr. Speaker, it is a rather sad day today, as we are discussing Bill C-78.
The government is picking on people who already are not well off. I have looked at the statistics a bit and I found that retired public servants are currently getting about $9,000 a year.
Obviously, the funds have accumulated some surpluses. Yet, instead of trying to improve the annual income of its retirees, or lowering the contributions made by today's workers, this government is drooling at the prospect of other surpluses and is dying to get its hands on them.
I got into politics in order to do my bit for justice, and I feel obliged to speak to this bill because I see it as totally unfair.
I will start with how the government has managed public funds since the Liberals came into power in 1993, because of what is going on now. The government is patting itself on the back for having succeeded in reducing the deficit, started paying down the debt, everything is great. But we need to have a look at how this was accomplished, how the government and the Minister of Finance in particular handle the public finances.
First, they began by cutting transfer payments to the provinces. The government had some responsibilities toward them. And what did the current government do in the first years it was in power? It announced: “We are going to transfer less money”, which means that it kept more for itself.
The second thing it addressed was another surplus, the one in the employment insurance fund, an annual surplus of $6 billion to $7 billion, and an accumulated surplus of $20 billion to $25 billion. The government siphoned off the money in this fund at the expense of the workers. It then congratulated itself “See how well we are running things”.
Meanwhile, the provinces and the jobless are paying for it. They are the ones who bore the brunt of paying down the deficit. They are the ones whose contributions or cuts in benefits are being applied to paying down Canada's debt.
Pay equity is also involved. During those years, the government unfairly paid women working in the federal public service. These are the women who paid off the deficit. They are paying off the debt.
Let us now take a look at the pillage in the employee pension fund, because that is what we can call it, we are not talking about peanuts here. We are talking about $14.9 billion for the public service. A lot of these people work in my riding. There are some 200 or 300 who work in the federal public service at the Saint-Jean military base.
The RCMP will be sacrificing $2.4 billion and the Canadian armed forces, $12.9, for a total of $30.2 billion.
What we are seeing today with Bill C-78 amounts to pillaging this fund. It recalls for me unfortunate examples from the past.
This morning, as I prepared my speech, I thought of Robert Maxwell, the famous British media magnate, who travelled the oceans of the world on his huge 60 foot boat. He was one of the first to take money from pensions of his own workers.
I see the President of the Treasury Board travelling about on his own Titanic . I would remind him that the Titanic 's owners, in their arrogance and invincibility, claimed it was unsinkable. I remind the President of the Treasury Board and the members of the government, especially, of that fact and tell them that it is not too late to drop their arrogance and their thoughts of invincibility.
There will be no problem if they consider the amendments the Bloc Quebecois is proposing today, but I know that the members of the government tend to say “This is the way we are going, and you will follow us. We will let you have a few debates in the House. When it no longer suits us, and it has gone on long enough, we will call for closure”.
I appeal to government members and to the President of the Treasury Board to look at the amendments the Bloc is proposing and, for once, to drop their arrogance and their thoughts of invincibility in this House.
I consider it disdain by the majority, when it goes ahead totally oblivious of the opposition. We do represent the people of Canada and Quebec. The government should listen to the opposition a little more and make certain amendments to bills instead of heading off, visor lowered, saying “You will follow us. If you are not happy, we will use closure”.
I call on hon. members to look at the amendments moved by the Bloc Quebecois to avoid penalizing public service retirees, who currently have an annual income of about $9,000.
Let us also not forget what the President of the Treasury Board did about this issue. In 1996, an advisory committee was set up and the minister said “Make recommendations to me and we will see what we can do”. In 1998, the President of the Treasury Board said in a press release “The consultations may lead to a partnership that could result in the establishment of a management board in the public service that would be independent of the government”.
In actual fact, the first group of amendments moved by the Bloc Quebecois seek to create a management board that would deal at arm's length with the government. However, we forgot to take into account someone who may be the future leader of the Liberal Party. We forgot to take into account the Minister of Finance who, in managing the public purse, probably said to the President of the Treasury Board “My dear friend, we will look at the $30 billion surplus and we will try to get our hands on it”.
This is just as I said earlier: cuts in the transfers to the provinces and siphoning off of money from the employment insurance fund, which belongs to the unemployed. The Minister of Finance has a big say in all this, because he is the one holding the purse strings. Workers must not forget that he is probably behind this bill, even though it was introduced by his colleague, the President of the Treasury Board.
One also wonders about the signal that is being sent to private businesses. Earlier, I alluded to Mr. Maxwell who is travelling all over the world on his big boat, with his employees' pension fund.
A bill like this one will send signals if it is passed. I would propose the most striking example from my riding, that of the pillage of the fund of the former employees of the Singer company. For a number of years, the Bloc Quebecois has been trying to get through to the government and remind it of its fiduciary responsibility for this fund.
The answer we get is “No, there is no problem. No, we have no commitment in that. We were not the watchdog, settle your own problems”. We might well wonder whether these responses were conditioned by the government's intention to introduce the bill before us today.
How would it have looked if the government had told the Singer Company or if its representatives had told themselves, as those responsible for the fund, “That is right, we have a share in the responsibility. We should not have allowed the company to pillage the Singer employees' pension fund”? This however was not the government's intention. It could see the surplus that was accumulating.
It was beginning to realize that it had to take the surplus, that if it acknowledged its responsibilities toward the people at Singer, it would have to give up the surplus and ensure that it went to retired workers. We can see all the intentions of this government.
In the case of other companies as well, we have often been told by the Minister of Human Resources Development, who is responsible for the matter “There are other companies, so we cannot follow up on your request”.
This is a terrible example for private employers to follow now. They will be able to do as the government does and let workers down.
The dictatorship of the majority must stop. It is time to stop treating employees with disdain. The government has an opportunity today to set its arrogance aside. It could also set aside its great superiority and invincibility complex aside and listen to what the opposition parties have to say, include it in the bill and amend the bill to give us something potable in the future. This is not just for those now retired, but also for those who will be retiring from the public service.
The government must assume its responsibility. If the government does not do that, the Bloc Quebecois will naturally oppose Bill C-78.
Mr. Speaker, I sense this will be the last opportunity I will have to talk to Bill C-78 or any amendments to it. Even though four groups of amendments were taken from the many that were put forward, we have reason to believe that some time during the day today the government will again move closure on debate and shut down the opportunity for us to talk to the 30, 40 or 50 amendments which really need to be debated. It is a pattern that has developed right from day one of the debate on Bill C-78. We have every reason to believe, given the history and the pattern, that it will happen again today.
I will take this opportunity to say a few words in the short period of time I have on some of the many amendments which our party put forward to try to clean up what we feel is a very flawed bill. I am tempted to say it is a flawed bill, but it is not a flawed bill. In a way it is a masterful piece of work. It is a true piece of art in the way it was put together so the government could achieve what it set out to achieve. It will take the $30 billion surplus from retirees, pensioners and beneficiaries of the pension plans and use it for whatever purposes it sees fit.
I want to condemn the government in the strongest possible language I am allowed to use. Unfortunately I am limited in what things I can say about the bill. There are many things I could say about it. I cannot use the word theft. I do not intend to try the Speaker's patience by using the word theft, stealing, highway robbery or any of the other words that come to mind. I will not say those things because I know I am not supposed to do so.
I guess I would have to ask the Chair if I could use the word excrement. Is the word excrement allowed in the House of Commons? That is one word which certainly comes to mind. I do not believe it is in the book. If members worked in a circus and it was their job to follow the elephants in a parade, the stuff they would be sweeping up would pretty well typify or exemplify what we are dealing with today. The word travesty was used earlier and I am not going to repeat it over and over again.
There are not many Liberals here today to listen to these final words of debate on Bill C-78. I do not blame them for not being here, although I have some admiration for the Liberals who hang around to listen to this kind of thing. It must be hard not to get jaded about the whole political and parliamentary process when Liberal backbenchers are used as nothing more than a focus group for cabinet when it wants to ram something through.
It is going to be those members sitting here today listening to this who will have to go back to their ridings to justify, defend and explain that the senior citizens are going to have their pockets picked to the tune of $30 billion. I admire those who have the courage to come here and face the music. I wish them well when they go back to their ridings.
Opposition to this bill is building up steam as we speak. Right across the country seniors are rallying. They are getting together to study this bill, and it takes a long time to digest a bill of this size.
That is exactly what the government is trying to avoid because it saw what happened when it tried to tamper with the OAS and the GIS and when it tried to create the new seniors benefit. That committee toured the country and seniors had a chance to look at it in some detail. Seniors had a chance to mobilize, to voice their opinions and to tell the government that they did not want a new seniors benefit which actually resulted in less benefit for them. They did not want the GIS and the OAS to be merged into one so-called seniors benefit. That is exactly what is happening with this bill. The government has to stop it in its tracks because there is too much opposition right across the country.
The largest single group of beneficiaries, the federal superannuates national association, had 12 hours to prepare. Representatives were called the night before to make a presentation to the committee the next morning. They complained vigorously that they did not have a chance to prepare a proper presentation. They did not even have a chance to read the 200 pages of text that makes up Bill C-78. Seniors now, because they pay attention to the news and read the papers, are a very well informed group of voters and they are catching on in large numbers.
Like every good son, I had brunch with my mother on Sunday. She collects a pension through the public service pension plan. It was a very nice brunch. She collects the survivor's benefit because my father worked in the public sector all of his life and she survives on the meagre survivor's benefit that she gets. She lives in the same little wartime house at 998 Warsaw that I grew up in. Betty Martin, who is 82 years old and lives in Winnipeg, asked me at brunch, unprompted I might add, “Are they going to take away my pension?”
I had to answer, to be fair, that nothing was going to happen to the pension she is currently collecting. However, I told her that the $30 billion surplus would be taken out of the fund. Her question was “Is that not part of our pension?” That is an innocent question which came right out of the blue. An 82 year old woman saw immediately what was happening. Without reading the text she knew that it was fundamentally wrong to take $30 billion out of the pension fund which could have gone to improve the benefits of pensioners and retirees.
This whole thing got off to a bad start because of one statement made by the chief human resources officer of the Treasury Board Secretariat in June 1998. I will quote Mr. Alain Jolicoeur because I want to get this right. He made one statement that started the ball rolling on this whole atrocity. He said “Employees and retirees have no proprietary interest to the surplus in the superannuation plan”. He defied all conventional wisdom on employee benefit plans by saying “The surplus is not yours. You get your benefits, but the surplus is not yours”.
It is a basic tenet of anybody who is involved with employee benefit plans that any surplus is deferred wages. It is part of the pay package. It is money being held in trust to improve the benefits of the beneficiaries of the plan. That is where we got off to a bad start.
The President of the Treasury Board made it worse when he came out publicly and said even more strongly “There is no chance in hell that the union can claim a $30 billion surplus”.
First of all, he is wrong. It is not the union that is trying to claim the money. None of that money would go to the union. The union is arguing that it should go to the beneficiaries. His quote was “They do not have a chance in hell of getting their hands on it”. The government had made up its mind in a cold and callous way. It had targeted that money and then it set about taking very logical steps to take it.
This is a pattern we have seen before. The government took $25 billion from the EI surplus, which was taken from the most vulnerable people in society, the unemployed. Now it is taking money away from arguably the next most vulnerable bunch of people in society, the retirees, senior citizens, pensioners, beneficiaries of the pension plan, many of whom live in poverty.
We should not let anybody tell us that this is some kind of Cadillac pension we are dealing with. A disproportionate number of retirees are female. The average woman, with 20 years of service in the federal public service, is receiving a pension of approximately $9,000 a year. This is not a Cadillac pension. Nobody is living in luxury as a result of it.
If that $30 billion were divided up among the beneficiaries it would result in about $30,000 per beneficiary. Spread out over the period of their retirement it might mean $2,000 or $3,000 a year per beneficiary. Again, $9,000 to $11,000 or $12,000 is not a huge amount of dough.
I will not get a chance to speak to many of the motions which I put forward, but obviously we have put forward amendments to this bill that would take away the enabling language that was cleverly put in to allow the government to take not only this $30 billion surplus, but all other surpluses; all future surpluses which will be invested by the public sector pension investment board.
At the very least, one of the amendments that we put forward dealt with that board and the pension investment policies that it might be bound to or that might be stipulated. The legislation is really silent on that. The only goal would be to produce the maximum profit. Obviously that has to be the first goal of any trustees of a pension plan.
We would argue that there should be some ethical investment policies as well. For instance, the government should not invest in any company that might be engaged in a service that is contracted out which would cost public service members their jobs. What if it were a janitorial company that was bidding on a contract to clean the House of Commons? The people who traditionally do those jobs would be laid off and replaced with people from a company in which their pension plan is invested. That would be fundamentally wrong. I think the beneficiaries would want to speak out against that. They will not get a chance to speak out against it now. That is just one example of how many things need to be discussed and we will not get a chance to discuss them. It is deplorable. It is excrement.
Mr. Speaker, I thank hon. members for participating in the debate. The answer to the question the hon. member asked is, I would assume, based on the fact that the Speaker did not provide a ruling, that excrement is indeed a word that is applicable and usable in the House. However, I would simply ask that hon. members present who are participating in this debate not use bathroom humour, however playful or however humourous it may seem at the time. This is a very serious piece of legislation and I would like to elevate the debate to make sure that we continue to focus on the issues at hand. Hon. members, I am sure, would like to engage in a bit of playful conversation during the course of the debate, but I think that our responsibility and what we are charged to do here is to stick to the issues at hand, the specifics of this legislation and the needs of our respective constituents.
Hon. members opposite have raised the issue that certain pensions should be based not on the contributions or the formula that the pension plan was based on, but that consideration should be given for lower income pensioners or lower pension levels and that those levels should indeed be topped up. I understand the merit and general detail of that particular proposal. I think it is a very kindhearted idea. In my own personal view it has some merit.
Basically, those who contribute to the pension plan are all public servants. They really want and need the pension plan to be devised and to be implemented on a formula based approach which is accountable and fair so they will know exactly where their money is going as they contribute. That is the way the policyholders themselves would like the pension plan to be administered. I ask hon. members opposite to bear that in mind.
One final point is that there was some reference made by a member of the Reform Party, who I understand is also chairman of the public accounts committee, who attended the committee hearings on natural resources and government operations which reviewed this particular legislation at second reading. A point has to be made. When the committee was considering this particular piece of legislation what it was faced and charged with, in part, was to look at specific amendments; in other words, specific ideas that the opposition had as to how it would change the legislation.
There were very few amendments put forward by the opposition. As a procedural matter the amendments were grouped in various sections. We debated the amendments in those sections, which proved to be a very efficient and effective way of dealing with the legislation.
The point that has to be made is that debate in committee has to be based on specific ideas that have been brought forward by any member of the committee. We as government House members and government committee members did indeed put forward specific proposals for change to the legislation. We debated those and in some measure we got them through in committee. Very few amendments were put forward by the opposition to this particular legislation. Therefore, that in itself was a limitation on debate. The issue at that point in time became whether the legislation as it was currently drafted by the government would indeed be passed at the committee stage.
That is a point in which I think members of the House would be interested. Many of the people who spoke here this morning were not in attendance at committee where much of the work of the House is conducted from the point of view of reviewing legislation, reviewing different amendments and talking about the general issues surrounding the legislation.
I am pleased that members opposite have now joined the debate at this stage. It would have been very helpful if they had joined the debate at the committee stage, but that is their choice. Now we have a chance to renew the debate. We have to maintain a focus on very specific issues. I say to members opposite that we should try to not get involved in too much bathroom humour. It is too serious a piece of legislation to do that and I think that members of the pension plan and members of the general public expect a bit more dignity and decorum in the House.
I would like to thank the House for its indulgence and I would like to proceed with this very useful debate.
Madam Speaker, it is with a degree of sadness that I rise today to speak to Bill C-78. I believe that many members of the House, including members on the government side, share this sense of remorse for the process in which we are participating. We feel very badly that we are participating in what effectively, and let us be candid about it, is a parliamentary charade. Canadians can watch this on CPAC. Somehow, in some way, the government is trying to demonstrate that there is legitimate parliamentary debate on important public policy issues, in this case Bill C-78, which is a 200 page bill, a complicated piece of legislation which affects all Canadian public servants and entails remarkable changes, sweeping changes, relative to $100 billion ultimately.
Canadians may, in watching this, actually believe that there has been legitimate debate. I would like to inform Canadians who may be watching that there has not been legitimate debate. The government has railroaded this through parliament, through the committee process, through the House and has utilized closure again. The government has, at an unprecedented rate, used the instrument of closure to railroad legislation through parliament. It has not allowed the committee to effectively study this important piece of legislation.
The government claims that the main purpose of the legislation is to improve the financial management of the financial sector pension funds and the superannuate funds of the federal public servants, RCMP and military. Keep in mind that the average annual pension for these individuals is around $9,000 per year. These are not fat cats we are talking about. They are very average Canadians.
We should be sceptical whenever the government claims to have the interest of public servants at heart, particularly if we look at the record of the government on public servants. Sunday's Ottawa Citizen said that the Treasury Board president “has clobbered public servants harder than any cabinet minister in Canada's history”.
The politics of attacking public servants is similar to the politics of attacking politicians. It is very easy to attack a group that may not be particularly popular with the public because of misperceptions, or to make gratuitous attacks on the banking sector which the government has been willing to do.
It is very cynical that the government would use in a political sense any tool it has to attack groups that may not be incredibly popular but are groups that have legitimate causes and claims. For the government to play a very dangerous and cynical political game of pitting one group of Canadians against another simply for political expediency and political palatability is atrocious.
The government has eliminated 55,000 federal jobs, has frozen wages, has eliminated job security from the public service and has appealed the pay equity ruling in opposition to Liberal Party policy. I think it was a red book promise. It is a government that continues to use heavy-handed back to work legislation and suspends binding arbitration. This is the same Liberal Party that under the leadership of Lester Pearson introduced collective bargaining to the public service 30 years ago.
The current government leaders and the Prime Minister are being the patron saints of hypocrisy in backtracking on every major tenet of not just Liberal policy, but also of the fundamentals of fairness we value as Canadians.
It is the government that introduced back to work legislation to end a strike of 14,000 blue collar workers. Again, these are not high income workers within the public service. The government maintained the policy of regional rates of pay and a ghettoization of public servants. It introduced the back to work legislation without proper debate and sought closure.
The President of the Treasury Board reached a tentative agreement with the public servants and withheld that information from parliament before a crucial vote. That night he snookered the Reform Party. Unwittingly the Reform Party supported the back to work legislation because the government had pitted the interests of one group against another, in this case the grain farmers and the grain industry in the west against the interests of blue collar public servants.
Again that was cynical. It was an abuse of the parliamentary process and an abuse of members of parliament that should not only offend the Reform Party members, and I am sure it does, but it should also offend members of parliament on the government side of the House who watched that night and who participated in the vote without the proper information.
The level of morale in the public service is at an all-time low. While Canadian corporations are pursuing innovative labour-management and human resources management policies, the government is continuing to attack the public service and ignore the fact that the public sector represents 40% of the Canadian economy.
I see some hon. members present who serve on the finance committee with me. We are studying the issue of productivity. When 40% of our economy is public sector and the government has created a level of morale that has never been lower within the public service, I would argue that we have a productivity issue within our public service. This government through its continued gratuitous attacks on the public service has had a significant deleterious effect on the morale and the productivity of the federal public service. It has impacted the growth and future prosperity of Canadians in doing so.
The only group this government has demonstrated more contempt for besides public servants is members of parliament in this House. The government is persistent in its propensity to use closure and to railroad legislation through committees and through this House without legitimate and important public policy debate. Committees are being operated as branch plants of the ministers' offices. Government members are told to pass bills but not really discuss them. There is no objective, constructive development of public policy as there should be and at a time when public policy and the challenges facing us are very complex.
There has been a secular decline in the role of the MP which has occurred over a 30 year period. This decline has occurred at a precipitous level under this government.
With this legislation the government is failing to follow its own guidelines set out in S-3, the pension benefits standards act for the private sector. It sets out guidelines for the private sector and for private sector employers which the government itself is unwilling to use. Why is it doing that? Because it wants to get its hands on that $30 billion surplus.
The government would tell Canadians that that money is being applied to the debt. Keep in mind, in some ways it is a theoretical number; it is just a paper shift. The fact is that the government has not done anything to better Canadians by taking that from one group and putting it against the national debt.
The government has done something it believes to benefit itself politically. Come the next election the government will claim credit and say that it reduced the debt by the figure of $30 billion when it has not. Public servants through their pensions and their sacrifices, work and contributions over the years have provided the ability for the government to have that surplus and the government is taking that in a very cynical way.
I have said cynical several times. I feel very cynical today to be participating in this process where the government is again pitting the Canadian public against the public service, creating more division in a country that needs more unity. We should be working particularly in a post-deficit and a surplus environment to rebuild our relationships as parliamentarians and as government with the public service.
The Federal Superannuates National Association, the FSNA, has done a very good job on this, as have other organizations. The federal superannuates were effective in their lobby against the seniors benefit package which through clawbacks would have reduced pension benefits for seniors.
This government is not focused on creating better prosperity for Canadians. This government is focused solely on the next election and not on the next century. This treatment of parliament and of public servants has to end.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity to speak to this bill.
As the hon. member for St. Albert has pointed out so rightly, the time we have had to bring to light the various issues in this bill before the Canadian people has been cut short again. It is a tragic abuse of this House. There are some very significant factors in this bill that need to be brought to the attention of Canadians. I will focus on a couple of them this morning.
I want to preface my remarks to Group No. 2 amendments. We are only on Group No. 1 amendments at the moment. I do want to point out that I have some very serious concerns with Group No. 2 which I will be addressing later in the day.
It is important for us to ask in this House when new legislation comes along, how is it serving the Canadian people? With this piece of legislation it is important to look at the before picture and the after picture. What was it like before and what is it going to be like after?
My particular concerns revolve around the pension board itself, the people who administer and manage the funds on behalf of the employees of the Canadian government including the MPs in this very House. Prior to this legislation the way the board operated or how the fund was managed was under the scrutiny of the auditor general. The House was aware of any changes that were made. There was public scrutiny. That served the public interest and the employees covered by this plan.
What does this legislation propose to do in that arena? It proposes tragically to completely remove any kind of p